ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's follow-up session cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Victory of Jelinčič Trimeniti, Miran Györek, Matjaž Zanoškar, Miroslav Klun, Janez Janša and Franz Pukšič. I welcome all the present. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the transport laws in road transport following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At its 17th urgent meeting, on 3 May 2011, the draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first shall have the word of Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. [[He's quitting.]] On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We believe that the non-admission of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Road Transport Act was a bad decision on the part of the home body, because we find that, however, public passenger transport needs to be organised very effectively in Slovenia, because we find that, compared to other Member States of the European Union, we are in a very ungrateful place in the organisation of public passenger transport and are significantly increasing in Slovenia the motorisation of passenger cars, which, of course, means a lot of problems, both environmental and daily, for users of public transport assets and also roads, which are usually very busy at least in the corners, causing very serious problems to many people who want to come to work on time or also to other obligations. The non-admission of this law will delay the effective resolution of this area, which we believe is extremely bad for the further development of transport in the Republic of Slovenia. Given that some of the solutions in this law have also been linked to EU directives, this implementation will also have to be postponed to a later date. Above all, I think it is important to point out that this law sought to regulate payment deadlines for the payment of the fare, and this is one of the areas also negotiated with the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry with the Government. Here, the coalition and the Social Democrats cannot take responsibility for the agreements that have been adopted and probably also urgently needed for payment discipline to be regulated in the field of transport. We regret that such a decision has taken place and we expect that we will be able to get the text of the law as soon as possible, which will primarily resolve integrated public passenger traffic and actually introduce a single ticket in Slovenia to simplify the journey and also to unload our roads, which are extremely busy in the corners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u4	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellow Members, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Transport Committee did not support these amendments and the amendment of the law yesterday. Of course, it was then heard that the opposition voted against and that the law was therefore not adopted. Representatives of the Transport Committee, members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also a colleague from the Slovenian National Party and a fellow member from the Slovenian People's Party voted against the resolution of this law. It was already clear in the very explanation of the Law-Legal Service that so many amendments, so many articles to propose to the Road Transport Act, were not appropriate that in fact the proposal did not meet any criteria for the inclusion of such a law in the short-term procedure, despite the fact that the individual contents might have been those that deserved more attention. However, in the view of our Group, at least the part relating to integrated public passenger transport, as far as organisational solutions are concerned, is required by the law specifically governing this area, the law on integrated public passenger transport, which, if it is mentioned, was also promised by the Minister of Transport. I must point out that one content, this content, is happening at the Ministry of Transport, as far as the projects themselves are concerned, is happening, and this must certainly be commended. With regard to the organisation itself, the solution of whether this should be a special direction or perhaps an integrated public passenger transport could be carried out, organised also within a different regime, and we must not forget that railways are logically included in integrated public passenger transport and that this organisational structure could be sought within the Slovenian Railway System. These solutions are offered by the substantive salary of more and this is part of the Integrated Public Passenger Transport Act. As far as assistance is concerned, the payment deadlines are certainly a problem, but this is not just a problem for motorists, this is a problem for the general economy. Automotive transport should certainly be assisted by the Government, aid from the Ministry, as dealt with by the European Union Directive on aid to transport when there are difficult economic moments or market disturbances. This would probably have to be addressed more within the framework of the law. Maybe not even the Road Transport Act, maybe more government action. And last but not least, what we had in mind was not only our thought, it was also the question of the Law-Legal Service, or the granting of public powers to both chambers, crafts and economics, which is by law whether it is at all compatible or not, but the one who is best at arguing that these chambers have been working for a long time is probably not the only one. In short, there were some of these solutions that made it possible for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to decide that, despite some of the solutions that might be worth considering because of everything else, and also because of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The Zares Group will not present its position. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Member Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, all present, welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like to stress that the changes and additions are so extensive that the Ministry should prepare a new amendment to the law, because this is contrary to our Rules of Procedure and the law is very imprecise. We also need to draw attention to the very bad and brevious explanations of the amended articles, as the Law-Legal Service also points out. It is true that there is a need to act quickly in the economic crisis, but we expect the Government to respect the rule of law and the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. For a more appropriate text, it is essential to correct some of the solutions, we support the comments made by the Chambers, in particular the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we also support the amendments proposed by the Council of State and those which take into account the comments made by the Legal Service that the law will be enforceable at all, as a practical majority of the articles of this proposal need to be corrected. Members of the Slovenian People's Party hope that the solutions for public passenger transport will indeed mean raising the level of service supply and ensuring a more rational use of budgetary resources, and above all we hope that finally in Slovenia there will be a greater link between bus and rail transport, which will bring a lot of positive consequences. This would necessarily have to be taken into account in the new version of the law. With regard to the regulation of licence records, we also believe that it is impossible to require the Ministry to invest immediately in the new information system. It is certainly more acceptable for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to draw up an information support system as soon as possible to ensure more effective control of permits and prevention of abuse. We expect the government to bring a partially amended bill to Parliament, particularly in those areas in which the Committee has had doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new law on road transport is one of the laws by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to respond to the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. According to the motioner's assurances, i.e. the Minister of Transport, these legal novelties are intended to help reduce the consequences of the crisis on the road transport activity, regulate relations in the transport sector and pay discipline. For the Novela sets a 30-day payment period with a solidarity responsibility. Solidarity responsibility is necessary due to the specificity of contracts in activities concluded between the two parties in favour of the third party. The legal novelty also simplifies the Institute for checking and certifying licences in companies and establishes a framework for the powers and tasks of the Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. The establishment of a Directorate will ensure a higher degree of professional autonomy, efficiency and quality in the performance and management of the public passenger transport system. To this end, human resources and financial resources will be pooled, which also means a more systematic and rational use of budgetary resources. The government wants to promote one of the least used public transport by setting up a Directorate and introduce an integrated passenger transport system. This project is already under way at the Ministry of Transport and will end with the integration of timetables and the introduction of a single ticket. The fact is that public passenger transport is very topical and requires as early and effective measures as possible at the level of the country, regions and municipalities. Slovenia takes last place after the use of public passenger transport between the Member States of the European Union, which clearly shows the neglect of this area at all levels. Eurostat data show that 3,2 % of all passengers traveled by train in Slovenia in 2006 and 3.6% of passengers by bus and 91.3% of all passengers by car. Measures to promote public passenger transport must also be included in the climate change mitigation and adaptation programme. In recent years, Slovenia has overtaken and even overrun many Western European countries in terms of motorisation. In Slovenia, the number of registered cars increased by 37% between 1995 and 2007, which means that road traffic in our country is increasing significantly. At the same time, the interest in the use of public passenger transport is falling sharply. The State is seeking to halt the decline in the number of public passenger users and to increase it in the long term also through an integrated public passenger transport project, which will ensure the introduction of a single ticket and harmonised bus and rail traffic schedules by the end of 2013. To this end, this system will be integrated into the new operator – the Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. In order to effectively manage and manage a complex system of public passenger integration, it is necessary to establish a public passenger traffic management service, which will have the function of public passenger transport operator at rail and bus level. The administration of public passenger transport in cities is under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities and full integration at the level of the single ticket is envisaged for the conclusion of contracts at the level of the state-municipalities in which relations and compensation to cities will be regulated on the basis of contracts. Foundations for further development and improvement in public passenger transport will be created as activities will continue after the completion of the integration project. In the DeSUS Group, the draft law would be supported with the hope that the situation in public passenger transport would improve at least a little. However, since the articles were not adopted, we cannot support the law even if we wanted it. In so doing, the Members of DeSUS, who participated in the Committee on Transport, supported this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u10	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The new Road Transport Act is adopted by means of an emergency procedure, its purpose is set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to apply it where the adoption of the law is necessary in the interests of the security and defence of the State, or in order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, or to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. In such cases, the Government may propose the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we agree that the country does not act as it should. However, to whom it is in the interest to adopt more than a third of the provisions of the existing law, which means that the Government or the Ministry of Transport should prepare a new comprehensive law, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We also received a small number of amendments, improvements and contradictions due to the scope of the material. We believe that it is not necessary to adopt legislation in such an urgent manner in such scope and content, unless the Government considers that we are indeed living in situations that do not correspond to the state of peace, which we can then rightly worry about. The government should withdraw three quarters of the proposed novel and offer only what could be achieved by consensus in order to justify the adoption of the law by means of an urgent procedure. I'm sure these are licenses for motorists, and the government has fallen asleep here, and the solutions are too late. Although the solutions are not ideal, because of increasing competition, as the applicant also points out, the system of transport licences needs to be really urgently and quickly regulated and as logically as possible so as not to block and lose profits. Discussions in both the professional public and the labour force have raised issues regarding licensing, written by experts in the field of public administration, and we hope that further discussions on the amendment of the law in question will not create a legal void, as is generally the case in this country in a wide range of areas, and this novelty would also be invalid and would not justify the adoption of a regulation. Another time. In order to effectively adopt and manage a complex system of public passenger integration, it will be necessary to establish a public passenger traffic management service, which will have the function of public passenger transport operator at rail and bus level. The management of public passenger transport in cities is under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities and the full integration of the natural single ticket is envisaged for the conclusion of contracts at the level of the state- municipalities in which conditions and compensation will be regulated on the basis of contracts to the cities, which we believe will not be brought to life in practice. And a third. The law also adds and regulates shuttle transport, outpost transport. The article is original but designed without knowledge of matter and therefore incomplete. As has been found in the home working body, the proposed amendment to the law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly, since in a few months they would certainly accept the amendment of the novel because something has been stuck in practice. With this novelty we could arrange today, which is really necessary, it is a licensing system to enable motorists to work and bread. However, we will need some more time, and we hope that, pending a re-decision on the amendment of the law, the solution will be prepared professionally and systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the original working body of the draft law was not adopted and because we were informed of the views of the parliamentary groups in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Minister, Dr. Žekš, to present the views of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, Members of Parliament! The aim of this Supplement to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities is to enable the newly established Municipality of Mirna and Trebnje, after the early elections on 10 April, to act and live as the rest of the municipalities. The current legislation did not provide for this, so this law supplementing the law provides a legal basis for the start of the operation and funding of the new congregation. We think that this is a short, clear and understandable law, which is also necessary and necessary. I think that's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr President William Trofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 26th emergency meeting on 20 April 2011, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for adoption following an urgent procedure. The Committee was informed before the hearing of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. On the basis of Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government, the President of the National Assembly also sent the draft law to the authorities of the municipalities and municipalities, but none of those municipalities responded within a given period. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further pointed out that the amendments to the proposal affect the area of three system laws, namely the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Public Finances and the Law on Community Financing. This brings confusion and uncertainty into the legal order, and therefore, in the light of the principle of legal certainty, such an intervention can only be allowed exceptionally, since the reasons for the establishment and entry into force of the proposed law do not reflect the reasons for the need for the establishment and operation of the new municipality's specific funding arrangements during the financial year. In its discussion on the articles of the draft law and on the proposal for amendments to Article 1, which was prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee considered that the adoption of the law would allow for the smooth functioning of the municipalities of Trebnje and Mirna without any financial implications in this year for the other municipalities. While it was pointed out that there were short deadlines for the adoption of the budgets of both municipalities, as well as the time frame for the adoption of the budget balance of the former municipality, the opinion prevailed that the timely adoption of budgets and the distribution of assets in the new municipality depended mainly on the political will of the municipal councils of both municipalities. The question of the implementation of the letter of intent was also raised, in the process of establishing the municipality of Mirna, the proposal for its establishment and the merger of the three municipalities in the area of the Mirna Valley. On the one hand, it was proposed that the three municipalities envisaged should be merged as soon as possible and, on the other hand, it was explained that it would take time to do so and that such a merger would be possible in the opinion of some members until the next local elections. In view of the fact that the Government has not prepared a financial projection of the appropriate expenditure and possible financial compensation for the new municipalities, and also not a projection of the impact of the establishment of the new municipality of Mirna on the amount of eligible expenditure and financial compensation to the other municipalities in the next budget period, it was noted that the Government should have prepared appropriate financial calculations as a basis for deciding on the eligibility and consequences of its creation by now for the consideration of any proposal for the establishment of a new municipality. It was proposed that the Government prepare these financial calculations for the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1 for which the Legislative and Legal Service assesses that it takes note of the comment, which improves the text of the Article but does not comply with its systemic comments. The Committee voted on all articles of the law jointly and unanimously adopted them. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Well-happened Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary, Mrs. Vesna Juvan Gotovac! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Community Financing. The draft law in Article 1 allows new municipalities, in a particular case, two newly established municipalities or newly established municipalities of Mirna and now a slightly smaller municipality of Trebnje, in which the first elections to the municipal council and the mayor's elections in the municipality of Mirna were held on 10 April 2011 and the second round of the mayor's election in the municipality of Trebnje. It will be operational during the financial year. This will ensure that the people of these two municipalities, Mirne and Trebnje, exercise the right to local self-government, as the Constitutional Court, by decision of the President of the National Assembly, has imposed an invitation to vote in the municipal council and the mayor's elections in the municipalities of Mirna and Trebnje with the aim of exercising local self-government in the area. The proposed law sets out the date of the establishment and operation of the new municipality, the preparation of a report on the implementation of the budget of the former municipality, that is, the municipality of Trebnje, for the period from the start of the financial year to 1 July and its adoption in both municipal councils, the adoption of the budget of the new municipality of Mirna for a period shorter than the financial year, and the procedure for the transition to new funding. At the same time, the bill provides for the distribution of income from income and financial compensation belonging to the previous municipality of Trebnje, now in both municipality – Trebnje and Mirna, in proportion to the number of their population. This ensures that the financing of the new municipalities will not affect the statutory use and income of other municipalities from income. With regard to the proposed, including the earlier conclusions of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Group of Social Democrats will support this proposal so that the new municipality of Mirna can operate smoothly with the municipality of Trebnje and will also enter the established guidelines and operational lines as soon as possible. As has been said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we also expect the merger of three smaller municipalities in the municipality of Mirska Dolina in the future, because our goal is not yet a further fragmentation of the municipalities, but to the greatest extent also the independent functioning of the municipalities, which is often more difficult to ensure in the functioning of municipal administrations and other tasks of small municipalities. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Community Financing Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the law or the addition of the law on the financing of municipalities, as well as the proposed amendment, which, on the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, amends this proposed law. The law allows for the normal functioning of both municipalities, the Municipality of Trebnje and the Municipality of Mirna, in the second half of this year, provided that the budgets of both municipalities are adopted in a timely manner. The Slovenian Democratic Party also agrees with the findings of the Committee itself that this amendment also affects the scope of the two other system laws concerning local self-government. With this addition, we are somehow waving the legal basis for the case that arose this year. However, we are just continuing and extending our work on the basis of the complications that have arisen immediately at the beginning of the establishment of new municipalities in this mandate. If we sum up all hours of discussions that we had here for the adoption of the Law on the Municipality of Mirna and the Municipality of Ankaran, we could do something different in the meantime, if at the beginning we decided and accepted all the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, which the Government had confirmed for all the areas that met these conditions, adopted conclusions on the call for referendums and made it possible for all to decide at the referendum for their municipalities and, as has always been, adopted, then we would not have today on the table of this law, since the municipalities could start operating with the other 210 municipalities in Slovenia. However, since the National Assembly acted arbitrarily at the beginning of the referendum call and it did not allow all the areas to call for referendums, we are now in the matter of towing and in some way waving this legislation, which could otherwise come into the future if such cases occur, but this should not be the case. These complications with the congregations of Mirna and Ankara were not really necessary for us to do our own work. We know how initially it was that the congregations of Mirna and Ankara were packed in one decision, in one decision, which I think was wrong. Each referendum area should be decided separately and concluded. That's how Mirna went through because of Ankaran and Ankaran because of Mirna. In the second phase, when this was shared, Mirna went through, Ankaran, and he got stuck, and so did the rest. I think that this is not supposed to be a practice forward, so that we do not give ourselves any great reputation here in the National Assembly, and the question is whether this ensures the conditions laid down in the European Charter on Local Self-Government and also in our Constitution. Let this be the case when we allow the municipalities of Trebnje and Mirna to function as normally as they can in this year, even though this has caused great damage to the municipality of Trebnje. Since they do not have a budget, they will not be able to make all the calls and will certainly be damaged this year, and nothing is to blame. It is so guilty that the congregation of Trebnje or the municipal council adopted a decision and thus allowed the area of the local community of Mirna to reach its congregation. I hope that they will really bring all the budgetary procedures down so quickly that they will not have any more damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thanks again for saying that. The amendment of the Law on the financing of municipalities is necessary because of the decision of the Constitutional Court or the late establishment of the municipality of Mirna. The existing legislation stipulates that the new municipality is constituted and begins to carry out its tasks on the first day of the financial year following the year in which the elections were held. The proposed amendment, however, allows for funding and thus the functioning of the municipality even if the new municipality begins to carry out its tasks after the start of the financial year, if the municipal council is elected by 31 May. The basic provision of the amendment provides that income on income and financial compensation shall be divided in this case for the remainder of the financial year, which is, as from 1 July, in proportion to the number of inhabitants of the newly established municipalities. For the first half of the year, the old municipality has to prepare a financial report, rather than a final account, and for the second half of the year, it has to adopt a budget balance. The new municipality, however, shall adopt its first half-year budget in accordance with the principle of income-sharing mentioned above. For this six-year budget period, the appropriate consumption of new municipalities is not calculated in accordance with the law, but is used as a basis for financing the appropriate consumption of the former municipality. As the Legislative and Legal Service rightly pointed out in its opinion on the proposed amendments to the law, this is a non-systemic amendment affecting three laws, namely the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Public Finances and the Law on Community Financing. All of this, however, unnecessarily reduces the transparency and regulation of legislation in this area, which could be avoided by greater responsibility and predictability in the decision-making process in the National Assembly or in the clearer positions of the Government on proposals for the establishment of new municipalities or at least other legal solutions in the law establishing the congregation of Mirna. It should be pointed out that the newly formed municipalities in the half-year budget for the second half of this year will have the same income as the former Trebnje municipality would have at their disposal, and that on the expenditure side the overhead costs will be increased due to the operation of the two municipalities and the available means of operation in the second half of this year in both municipalities will depend on the level of consumption in the first half of the municipality of Trebnje. Thus, a basic objective will not be achieved, which is a kind of driving force in ideas for dividing or dividing municipalities, in order to result in the right to greater revenue by changing, territorially or by dividing them into the same area. Given the prevailing situation and the unprecedented situation, there is nothing left for us in the parliamentary group but to support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u22	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we find that the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Financing of Communities to the newly established municipalities makes it possible to start operating during the financial year. The date of the establishment of the new municipality, the time limit for the adoption of the budget of the new municipality and the rebalancing of the budget of the former municipality, the distribution of the revenue of the municipality on income and financial compensation in both municipalities, and the way in which both municipalities move into a new funding system. The draft law is an indirect consequence of the decision of the Constitutional Court last December, which decided that the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their territories is inconsistent with the Constitution, since it does not contain provisions on the municipalities of Ankara and Mirna. The decision imposed on the National Assembly a decision which would enable the inhabitants of Mirna and Ankara to exercise the constitutional right to local self-government. In early February, the National Assembly, by adopting a new Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and setting up their territories, made it possible to establish a new congregation of Mirna. With regard to the congregation of Ankaran, whose establishment was imposed on the National Assembly in the same decision of the Constitutional Court, we all know how it ended. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have always advocated the realization of the right to local self-government in a way that allows for faster development of local communities, allowing better living and working conditions for the inhabitants. That is why we have openly supported the will of the inhabitants and inhabitants of the People's Republic of Mirna, who, with reasonable arguments, have expressed their will to their own municipality and have expressed their will with a convincing majority in the referendum, where more than 88% of the participants in the referendum have been identified for the election from the municipality of Trebnje and for the establishment of the new municipality of Mirna. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree in principle with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which says that the draft law introduces certain uncertainties into Slovenia's legal order, since the proposed regulation interferes with the area of systemic laws in the field of local self-government, but we believe that the conditions for smooth operation should be allowed to the municipalities of Mirna and Trebnje as soon as possible, which will happen with the adoption of the proposed law. That is why we will also support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! With a proposal for a new Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the government is trying to enable the operation of the new municipality of Mirna. In the current legislation governing local self-government and public finances, namely, there is no legal basis for the entry into force of the new Mirna municipality during the financial year. The proposed law establishes a date to be considered as the date of the establishment and operation of the new municipality by providing for the preparation of a report on the implementation of the budget of the previous municipality for the period from the start of the financial year to 1 July and its adoption on both municipal councils, the adoption of a new municipality budget for a period shorter than the financial year, and the determination of the facts to be demonstrated by the documentation for the transition to self-financing. Due to the impact of the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the new municipality on the appropriate consumption of all municipalities, and thus on the revenue of municipalities from incomes already fixed in accordance with the law for 2011, by the end of the financial year, the distribution of income and expenditure on financial compensation belonging to the previous municipality is to be fixed at both municipalities, in proportion to the population ratio. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister – you have a difficult task. Not that I want to, but I can't be identical with my colleagues and colleagues' opinions in front of me. Why? First of all, everyone who is or who is a lawyer and who goes to law school knows why laws are written. Laws are generally written in order to apply to all areas. Secondly, all of you who have been or are still mayors know the process of adopting the budgets of the new municipalities. You know how long this takes. Most congregations know that this takes at least two to six months. And thirdly, we've heard the regulations before today, so I won't repeat them, even though I know them. What does an emergency procedure mean? This law, I am sure, is not meant to be dealt with by an emergency procedure. If we move on. I respect the opinions of colleagues and colleagues, most have expressed their agreement with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Services to respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and support the law. I don't understand how that's possible, because the Law-Legal Service has made it clear about this law. She said that the proposed regulation did not have substantial new substantive solutions, clearly and loudly. She said it was incomplete and indeterminate. If I just say that there is a lack in this proposal of the law we are talking about, otherwise there is a divisional relationship between the two municipalities for income and financial compensation, but not for all the other revenues and other benefits. Which is flawed, and that's very flawed. At least you know who you were. It also pointed out that all essential substantive solutions are defined and affect two important systemic areas of municipal regulation, namely the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Public Finance. And there's nothing else. All that's here is just some mixture, picked up on the left, right, and passed on to a specific, special case. It also made clear that, under the Public Finance Act, the budget is the content set for the current financial year, from day to day. She also said that this law does not help, but even reduces the transparency of the legal regime in force, so that it interferes with the legal order by introducing ambiguity and ambiguity. The reasons for the need for specific arrangements for the financing of new municipalities during the financial year are not explained. All of this is clear, you all agree, but you support the law. I don't think that's fair, and it's unfair, and we have to say that we have two marriages. All of you who have been in the National Assembly more than or about that long know that every third year of the term, the National Assembly has considered the establishment of new congregations, that all processes have been completed by establishing new congregations with the current financial year and that the substantive arrangements have been made. It's been 11 years and I don't know what this is all about. We, too, absolutely agree and support the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. We are also aware that all these contents are clearly and definitively regulated in two laws, local self-government and public finances. But unlike all of you, we will not support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u28	Your Honor! We could say that we are conducting the last correctional examination in the order we carried out with regard to the establishment of municipalities in this mandate. It is unnecessary and inappropriate to refer to the Constitutional Court's decision to amend this law today because of the Constitutional Court's decision. That's not true. In our firm belief, this law is not necessary at all, and we could do so with an appropriate explanation by doing so in proportion, which is otherwise envisaged, in accordance with the division between the congregation of Trebnje and the congregation of Mirna. But if, of course, the service has assessed, regardless of the fact that it has not prepared a proposal or information on the appropriate consumption and other matters that fall within the scope of the regulation, then fine. I hope that we will not continue to complicate things in areas where there is no need. It is necessary to know that all that we are doing today is due to the work of the National Assembly, and nowhere else, and to the various incomprehensible interests and activities of the individuals who carried it out. The fact is that elections and the right to vote and to vote for local self-government later, as if by regular procedures, are an irrefutable right. Even in the case of local self-government, I find this force important. And if it is so that citizens and citizens have this right on the basis of the law adopted by the National Assembly, then it is logical and normal to ensure that it is in accordance with the legislation, without fail, adequate funding, which is proportionate to the number of inhabitants. Although the complexity of some individuals seems to make this area extremely messy and to require constant changes, some things are nevertheless settled. At least it is possible to find answers in the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, and in other laws that have been discussed here today, things are well arranged. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy, we believe that this law also encircles the entire congregation of Mirna or the congregation of Trebnje and that in the future, with the amended law, whatever the will and interest of individuals, this will not prevail, but, above all, the right for people, if they meet the conditions, to decide on the referendum and then, in accordance with the law, to carry out all procedures. This cannot be arbitrary; it cannot be in a way that one of its caprices is superior to that of citizens and citizens in certain areas. And that's why we're adopting this law today. I just hope that this story doesn't make it so that the law is flawed if it doesn't happen by 1 July that you don't remember that any more law has to be passed in order to fix it. I believe it is the will of citizens and citizens in one congregation and another to do so by that time. But as the law reads, it could happen that if this is not done by then — what then? This is a rhetorical question, because we believe that this will not be the case and I do not believe that this law has now resolved this for all future cases, all the situations that will arise. On the contrary. In the absence of this law, it would then be considered that, in proportion to the annual period and with the time of establishment and with the conclusions of one congregation and another, these matters should be regulated. But as we say, these are questions that may or may not appear. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to this addition to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, a number of interesting, divergent views were created. Some unrelentingly insist on how necessary and good it is, others will vote in favour because they feel they simply have no other choice, although the law is not as long as it seems, third will object because of the comments made by the Legal and Legal Service. And some of those who have already spoken today have estimated that there is no need at all. In such positions, which diverge so much, it is difficult to find a common denominator, but our parliamentary group will also support the bill. Judges among those who feel that other choices are virtually not that it is necessary to brush their teeth a little bit, to remember what the Law-Legal Service has pointed out in this regard, and to hope that such exceptions, as we are dealing with today, will no longer be repeated. Interestingly, the Government or the proposer is convinced that the law is necessary and that we must adopt it as a matter of urgency. Similarly, the Government was convinced of the Road Traffic Act, where the Law-Legal Service also had comments that some considered so important that they rejected the whole law, even though it provided good solutions. But that's not gonna happen in this marriage. The comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on this law are, according to our assessment, at least as weighty as the law which was rejected, and today some of the key have already been listed. From the start of work in the new local community during the year, to the fact that we are actually establishing a legal basis for the functioning of this local community, which we are talking about, to the way it interferes with other system laws and thus leads to greater transparency of legislation than is necessary. Nevertheless, we said that we would support this proposal. Because it would be even more absurd if you didn't. If, after everything that has happened so far as specifically has happened, support for this law has been missed and all the procedures, all the elections and all the referendums and all the in vain, it would actually be a mockery of some serious way of working. By adopting the law, a new municipality will not be able to function, since it will have to submit or adopt certain other documents together with the Municipality of Trebnje, some other acts which, if not adopted, would also prevent the operation of the new local community. We therefore believe that it is good to adopt as soon as possible a division agreement, an agreement on the sharing of property between the two municipalities, other documents necessary for this purpose, and to reverse this list of specificities related to the establishment of the quoted municipality. Since, as we believe, the solutions so far have been somehow forced, the consequences have also been somehow forced, so we cannot view them as exclusively or as just good. However, the worst solution would be if we did not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled until the end of the presentation of the views on the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY – PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTIC EXPOSURE OF THE 49th A MEMBER OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM SYSTEM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Majdo Potrat. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representatives of the Magi applicants. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49a of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages was put into the legislative procedure by a group of six Members and Members. The reasons for such a proposal are the findings of the Court of Auditors and the decision by which the Court of Auditors imposed corrective measures, in which individuals should return the overpaid salary at the time of the transition to the new payment system. In carrying out the audit, the Court of Auditors found that there was a question as to whether, when translating the basic salaries under Article 49a of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act, it was also necessary to take into account the coefficients for determining the basic salary achieved by the advancements, perhaps also in breach of the previous rules. Until the entry into force of the new pay system, there was no legal basis for the reduction of the salary of a public sector employee in the event of the finding that the salary was fixed in non-compliance with the applicable rules and even less for the application of an overpaid salary claim. In accordance with the constitutional principle of the rule of law, which also includes the principle of legal certainty, without an explicit legal basis such interference in the legal acts of the employer and in the current employment contract is not possible. The transition to a new salary system in August 2008 was designed under the applicable law to translate the nominal amounts of basic salaries, by regulations and collective agreements applicable before the application of the new payment system, into the nearest wage classes set out in the new system. Nominal amounts for translation have been determined by taking into account the basic salaries, i.e. the basis multiplied by the coefficient, and all the additions referred to in Article 49b of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act. The translation was carried out for an individual job or name and for an individual public servant. It is possible that the coefficients for determining the basic salary taken into account in translation have in practice been achieved by violating the rules, but the correct explanation is that for such an intervention – in order to be reduced – an explicit legal basis is necessary. In order for the employer to have the duty, or at least the right, to translate wages in August 2008 to correct any errors or irregularities that occurred prior to the transition to the new pay system, there should therefore be a specific legal basis for this. The legislator should specifically provide for the duty or right to review the acts by which the salaries have been fixed. This is not the basis for marriage, so the employer had neither the duty nor the right to do so. In translation, he was obliged to take into account all individual legal acts, i.e. decisions, decisions, decisions, contracts with which a public servant received a certain coefficient for determining the basic salary and allowances listed in Article 49b of the Act. All these elements had to be taken into account by the employer in the translation. A different course of action would be illegal. Therefore, it is appropriate for the applicants of the authentic interpretation to accept an authentic explanation. In its opinion, however, the amendment was supported by the amendment, which removed the question raised by the Legislative and Legal Service, in order to provide an authentic interpretation of the last sentence across the legal border and in breach of the Constitution. Therefore, we believe that it is at the time of the adoption of the authentic interpretation that this provision is also taken into account and the appropriate amendment adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the board's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this authentic explanation at its 31st session. 4. 2011. The proposer was Mrs Potrata and co-signed. The Committee had at its disposal an authentic explanation, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Government. Mrs Potrata presented the matter, as she has presented it now. However, Mrs Karlovsková of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the authentic interpretation must always be based on the importance of the authentic interpretation and that it cannot go any further, so the Legislative and Legal Service has proposed that the last sentence be deleted. Ms Tržanova presented on behalf of the Government that the Government also agrees with the authentic interpretation in the basic text. Mrs Vesna Pavlič Pivk, the Council of Justice, presented their position, as we usually know, that if this is not the case for them, they agree with him, but they do not. Two unionists, Mitja Šuštar and Branimir Štrukelj, also took part. After the introductory discussion, the Committee moved to consider whether this authentic explanation should be adopted. After a short discussion, he adopted the view that an authentic explanation should be adopted. The Committee then went on to consider the text of the authentic interpretation and also adopted the amendment. The amendment says the last sentence of the authentic explanation is deleted. The Committee then adopted a decision to propose such an authentic explanation to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Tina Tržan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49a of the Public Sector Wage System Act. The transition to a new salary system, which includes, inter alia, the transition from a system of wage-rate or wage-grade to a system of wage-grade classes, is a complex matter which is regulated not only in Article 49 but in the entire transitional provisions. In doing so, the fundamental issue of the conversion of the salary received by a public official in the old pay system is the new pay system, on which the remuneration of a public official in the new pay system depends directly. 49.a Article, as the basic article determining the conversion of remuneration received by a public servant in the old system to a new system, is unclear and in practice gives rise to different interpretations and, consequently, to different behaviours of employers. However, the different interpretations of the same article in practice may result in unequal treatment of public servants under the same institute – that is, translation. The entry of Article 49a of the first paragraph is unclear, which cannot be addressed by different methods of interpretation of the rules and the linguistic or grammatical interpretation of the rules cannot be applied. This paragraph provides that the translation shall take into account the nominal amounts of basic salaries determined under the rules and collective agreements applicable until payment of the salary under the new law. The second and third paragraphs, however, present the actual formula for calculating the nominal amount of the basic salary of the job or title and the nominal amount of the basic salary of the civil servant, thus do not provide for the verification of the legality or compliance of the coefficients with the applicable rules, but less interference with the legal individual labour acts and valid contracts of employment or annexation, and thus the rights acquired. Special attention should also be paid to the transition to the new pay system under Article 49.f, which means that, by transferring to the new pay system, public servants, other than the directors of Group B, who had entered the new pay system in 2006, cannot receive lower wages than they had received before the transfer to the new pay system. It's a so-called wage-protected institute. The legislator had no intention of providing for a preliminary remedy of irregularities by law in a way that would interfere with the legislative acts, as otherwise he would have put into the legislative procedure an appropriate amendment and an amendment to the law, as set out in Article 3 and Article 3a. Article 1 Unlike the wage legislation in force until the introduction of the new pay system, both articles actually provide a basis for interfering with individual legal acts relating to the determination of employees’ salaries, but this is a systemic part of the law and non-transitional provisions, and therefore it is only for the purposes of the said Articles to interfere with acts establishing the salaries of public servants in the new pay system. The proposed authentic interpretation of Article 49 of the Public Sector Wages Act will provide clarity as to the correctness of implementing the translation of the coefficients to determine the basic salary, jobs or titles and public servants into the new pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much. This authentic explanation, a little consultation with the applicant, was actually based on the Court of Auditors audits in some public institutions, in particular in Drama. Actually, I must say, I'm a little surprised by Mr Soltes' views. Mr Šoltes is now going to the salaries of public servants, namely those of the lower categories or the majority of the lower categories in the public sector – it is not about teachers, players, professors, etc. – and notes that they have too high wages. This could have been the result of the past, even before 2008. In theory, if someone got a job in 1975 or 1980 and then calculated his basic salary wrong, or if anything went wrong in his progress for all 20 years. In theory, then, the situation below is that Mr Soltes is in the position that the right situation should be established in 2008. Look, it's not that simple. I am extremely disturbed by the fact that Mr Šoltes did not do the same in 2009 on the findings of his Court of Auditors in the Municipality of Ljubljana. There he did not charge any return payments to be returned by the City Hall. Of course, there's a mayor who's very close to him. In 1994, Mr Šoltes was employed in the municipality of Šiška, where the Court of Auditors found irregularities. And there was something in his pocket about those irregularities, and there was a lot of trouble getting that money back. Not to mention that Mr Soltes has been counting three numbers for a year and a half, 136 minus 125 is 11,000 euros. He hasn't been able to calculate it yet. Of course, I'm talking about the National Investigation Office. When it comes to big business, big puppies, if you call it that in those milk, Mr. Soltes doesn't catch you. After a year and a half, it would be wise for him to catch this big rat written by Mrs Kresal. That'd be right. Thus, those who carry such chairs and tables and have 600 euros in wages are hunted down by Drama. That's the one he's hunting. So much for the principle and work of the Court of Auditors. As far as this authentic explanation is concerned. If a person, theoretically speaking, has had a miscalculated salary of 18 years since 1980, he now owes 10 thousand euros. How will he pay them because he can't pay them if he has 600 euros in wages? The State will now press charges against him in the opinion of Mr Soltes. But let's look at some other consequences. Let's say that someone at that time had a loan – yes, because the credit got based on the height of their salary, otherwise they wouldn't have got it. The following matter, such as "someone" paid for the kindergarten, was paid for by the kindergarten, and perhaps if it fell into the lower category of salary, if it had been determined as I do by Mr Soltes, the kindergarten would not have to be paid. Will the kindergarten be accounted for now 18 years ago? An anomaly of anomalies. This is why the situation is simple: it should be noted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed with the authentic interpretation in the original text. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore agrees because it is aware that no one today can assess how many lawsuits could be dropped. We can go down in 8 to 16 thousand lawsuits, there's a number here somewhere. So the state will sue those who have 600 euros in wages. With 8 to 16,000 applications, we'll charge the courts. That doesn't make any sense. This is completely pointless. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as I said, agreed with the authentic text of the authentic interpretation, which was also transmitted to the Committee. At the same time, it must be said that the Law-Legal Service has said that the last sentence – I will read it to you because I do not want to politicise it, but I want us to adopt a position that would be really good for the workers. The last sentence of the authentic interpretation reads as follows: "Conformity of the factors for determining the basic salary of the job or the name of the coefficients for determining the basic salary of a public official with the rules and collective agreements applicable before the transition to the new pay system shall not be established at the time of verification." That means what? Now the Legal and Legal Service says that this would be a violation of the legality that is in the constitution. I agree with that, because it probably is. At the same time, let us say something else, that there are also other principles in the constitution, justice, socialism and so on, and so on, we also have these principles. So I don't know, I think the National Assembly should really look a little wider, not so narrow legal, so-called legality. And the other thing about it. Look, there's still a Supreme Court ruling in this area. The Supreme Court has already ruled in this area and has said that if the employer has paid a salary to someone under the current decision, we are today calling it a contract or whatever, then this is valid and it is not possible for him to revoke such an act. However, the Court of Auditors considers that someone from 1975, 1980, if, after a mistake in the country, not in his own way, had the wrong salary for a few 10 euros or a few euros, had to collect it. But we're going to get into a situation where these 8 to 16 thousand people are likely to get this in court proceedings. So what do we gain? So what does the state gain if these thousands of workers are sued? I don't think he gets anything. What we may differ from Mrs Potrata and I, because we are not different, we have now consulted a little outside, is that in the SD you think that the last sentence can be deleted and that this does not compromise the authentic explanation that would be in the sense that I wanted it to be. If so, then we will not object to such an authentic explanation in the Group of Members, there is no reason to oppose it if it covers the situations I have spoken about. However, I think it would be significantly better if the amendment, which we unanimously adopted on the Committee – but I think we have also been unanimous a little, I will not say exactly deceived, but I do not know if we have been careful enough – we refuse and this sentence will be rejected, that we are not allowed to find out when we are being translated in 2008, remains an integral part of the authentic explanation and, in my opinion, the situation will be completely clear, and we will not be in the situation we are in. Look, in the case of Mercury workers, Mr. Potočnik knows about the matter when we accepted the authentic explanation here, and then Judge A says, "Yes, it belongs to this," and for the same situation, Judge B says, "no, it doesn't belong to this." Because one judge reads the authentic explanation, the other reads it differently. And now we will accept another authentic explanation. Here the Supreme Court should probably simplify this practice a little bit. However, at this point, I urge you to try to reject today's unanimously adopted amendment of the committee, and to adopt a fully authentic explanation, because this sentence, which we have in place, would probably mean a completely clean situation for all the directors of the public institutions who are said to be guilty of – from Iva Ban in 2008, and I do not know who else is to blame. But it's all the ministers' fault if we're direct. All those who were in positions before 2008 at this time. Why? Because they've been informed about payouts. I think that would be the best decision. We'll have an authentic explanation if the SD or coalition deletes the last sentence. We will not object, but it is only right to bring this last sentence in so that we will have a clean situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič. [[He's not here.]] The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh. [[No, no, ……]] The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u40	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. I received a gift in a booklet a few days ago, which states, inter alia, that the leniency and flexibility of the term, which has been reinstated in sociology to name the conditions and processes that define the post-fordist labour market. Prekarjat denotes those populations who are employed by grace and according to the grace of employers. Their work and life are thus almost absolutely dependent on flexibility and demands, affection and arbitrariness and employers' will. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that pre-carnation is established in all segments of the labour market, except that the manifestation of overrepresentation among workers for an indefinite period is often significantly lower than among contract workers with temporary forms of employment. And the authentic interpretation of Article 49a of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages is exactly that. In its request, the Group of Members and Members states, inter alia: "It is possible that the coefficients for determining the basic salary that were taken into account in the review were achieved in practice by violating the rules applicable until the application of the new payment system began". For example, the employee did not meet the conditions for promotion or did not meet the educational conditions for the job. The question is whether it is possible or even necessary to change these quantities before the verification or not to take them into account in the verification. Furthermore, in the case of a public sector employment contract, there is a case where, due to the protection of the public interest, the breacher is the employer. Therefore, it is not possible to enforce nullity and dissuasiveness solely under Article 86 of the Bond Code, but rather to safeguard the interests of another contractual party — an employee. Are the interests of the employee really protected, as the proponents put it? Due to the tight conditions, legal progress is unilaterally eliminated, even success is eliminated, overages are already being removed electronically, the abolition of the allowance at work time is being considered, social dialogue is being lifted due to tightening conditions in the fiscal treasury, which is not able to collect taxes. The ministers responsible for the police and the administration are once again in conflict with each other after reporting to the media, because one wants to make allowances available to police officers working on the ground under all weather conditions and the other opposes it. In order for the employer to have the duty or, at least, the right to translate wages in August 2008 to remedy any errors or irregularities that occurred prior to the transition to a new pay system, there should be a specific legal basis for this. The legislator should specifically provide for the duty or right to review the acts by which the salaries have been fixed. This is not the basis for marriage, so the employer had neither the duty nor the right to do so. In translation, he was obliged to take into account all the individual legal acts, decisions, decisions and contracts by which a public servant obtained a certain coefficient for determining the basic salary and allowances listed in Article 49b of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act. All these elements had to be taken into account by the employer in the examination, otherwise it would be illegal. Your Honor! The possible existence of criminal liability for the abuse of the position of the bride and other offences is not remedied or determined by an authentic explanation, but this is done in accordance with the procedures envisaged. If we are already dealing with this problem, then it would be wise to accept an explanation that would actually pardon one and another employers and workers on a cut date, thus translating the unfortunate numbers back. In its opinion, the Government notes in its opinion that the interpretation of the law which constitutes an infringement of the rights acquired would, in particular, constitute a violation of the law of the rule of law by certain public servants with decisions issued and the decisions of the employer or on the basis of a contract concluded more than 10 years ago. Does the Government possibly know what the court’s rulings were when the former mayor, Dr. Rupel, on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ demands, sued former employees in the then congregation for overpaid salaries? In fact, this mandatory interpretation is about a systematic amendment of the law, and the applicants are not actually hiding it, as they themselves state a set of other problems that need to be addressed. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also points out that they must be extremely careful when regulating for the return because it is a serious infringement of the rights acquired. And that's it. At the outset, Mr Jožef Školč, State Secretary, sent us all the Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support the mandatory interpretation of Article 49a of the Law on the Public Sector Wage Scheme. The agreement was to support it, in accordance with the decision of the Committee to delete the last paragraph. The last paragraph means for us that irregularities that have botched the calculation of wages by the old system should not be checked when the wages are fixed by the new system. We think that this is bad, and in this sense the spirit of correct interpretation of this article is more acceptable. The problem is that workers are not at fault if the employer miscalculated their wages, with all the consequences behind them. We agree with those who think it would be wrong to burden workers with the wrong salary to pay it back, especially when it comes to those with the lowest personal income. However, the problem is elsewhere, so it would have to be stated in the law that it is not possible to translate the coefficients into a new salary system on the same faulty basis, as no one has a contract yet. Some go to retirement and new ones come to their place of work. And he cannot inherit an irregularity in the system that was before the law that was passed on and draw him in this direction. Regardless of what the final outcome of today's decision will be, I believe that it would indicate in the law that an article would have to continue to look at what was translated into a new system by calculating wages for a given job, that those who enter the new system would not bear the same negative consequences of the employer who then miscalculated for any reason, either intentionally or by mistake or by any means, because we are responsible in individual institutions. I believe that in fact the problem is whether this last sentence is better or not. It is true, however, that the Legislative and Legal Service has informed us that such an interpretation is fully, as proposed, an actual amendment to the law, which is inadmissible for authentic interpretation. In this spirit, it is not possible to accept the principle of socialism or any other principle. The law has principles when adopted, and when adopted, provisions such as those there are, and can only be explained more precisely and in no way amended by an authentic interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the authentic interpretation of Article 49 of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. Our support is based on the fact that the authentic interpretation of this Article explains more precisely the implementation of the mechanism for the translation of nominal amounts of basic salaries or titles, taking into account the coefficient set out in the legal act, whether it is a decision, contract or any other act held by the staff member in the month preceding the first payment of salaries under the current law. The first authentic interpretation sufficiently and more precisely explains that Article 49 of the current law does not contain any requirement or instruction which would suggest that, when implementing the translation, it is necessary to verify that these coefficients in individual workers' legal acts comply with the rules and collective agreements in force prior to the transition to the new pay system. If that were the case, then it would be necessary to establish in this same law what the employer’s conduct should be when translating so that such non-compliance can be established. There is no such thing in the law in force. Last but not least, this interpretation that the purpose of Article 49(1) is not to interfere with the remuneration laid down in the previous rules is confirmed by the Institute itself of the so-called protected salary provided for in Article 49f of the Public Sector Salaries Act. Therefore, it is also not possible to ask today the question of the correctness of the translation of wages in the case described. While the question may be raised as to whether the coefficients and additions belonging to public servants have been achieved, they have been translated in accordance with the provisions of the current law on public sector wages and not the question of the validity of the acts in the period of the previous payment system, by which the payment elements have been determined. Therefore, even if the coefficients for determining the basic salary taken into account in translation were achieved in practice, for example by breaching the rules applicable from the start of application of the new salary system, this cannot be changed and changed without the necessary and explicit legal basis. However, the new law did not provide for a review or verification of the extent to which the factors for determining it were not necessary for the employer to carry out such verification. More. For something like that, there was no legal basis and such an intervention by the employer would be illegal. We will support this authentic explanation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation, on the text of the authentic interpretation and on the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. There's a mag in the word. Spending on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Since the authentic interpretation does not in itself seem to contradict the vast majority of the parliamentary groups or at least those who have presented their views, it is complicated or we have differing views on the last sentence of the proposed authentic interpretation, which was excluded from the authentic interpretation text by the mother's working body, I would nevertheless like to say the following. If we look at the authentic interpretation as a whole and now with the amendment, as we propose, the following text is deleted: "The consistency of the factors for determining the basic salary of the job or the title and the coefficients for determining the basic salary of the public servant with the rules and collective agreements in force before the transition to the new pay system is not determined", we also explained in the interpretation of the amendment, which we have considered on the home work body and which the Government and the Legal and Legal Service have agreed with. The deletion thus removes the statement made by the Legislative and Legal Service and therefore suggests to Members and Members that this amendment should also be supported in plenary session, because we have been particularly alerted that if this text was written down, then it could also be understood that the translation does not exclude the possibility, or that this sentence also excludes the possibility of amending or repealing the provisions on remuneration in individual acts, that is to say in decisions, decisions and contracts on employment, on the basis of and within the framework of legal remedies that can be used to amend or repeal individual legal acts and contracts on employment or on individual parts thereof. That is to say, if this text remained in writing, then the application of the legal remedies available to individuals in the exercise of their individual rights would be excluded. However, the determination of wages is an individual right and I think that this is also part of the answer to the question expressed by the Magi. The priest, in order to solve irregularities in return, or in return we can explain the position only with an authentic explanation, while further translation of wages is a matter of a new pay system. This authentic explanation does not cover any possible errors that have arisen following the implementation of the new payroll system when translated into the new payroll system. I am obliged to respond to another point of view expressed in the presentations of the parliamentary groups when reference was made to the case-law or to the Supreme Court decision. The case law on this problem, which we are solving with authentic interpretation of 49a. Article, not yet. There is no case law and it is therefore not possible to refer to decisions of the Supreme Court in respect of salaries in this case. I think it's right that we know that. I think it is also right to say that we have done this in the course of the submission of the authentic interpretation, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in-depth discussions, so to speak, even after the letter from the legal representative of one of the public institutions was sent to the addresses of the sent groups or the leaders of the sent groups. After that, we have also consulted and, therefore, on behalf of the applicants, I am advocating the proposal that you have received in the vote, this is the proposal for an amendment that deletes the last sentence of the authentic interpretation. The authentic interpretation thus provides a secure salary for those whom, even in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that they do not have such high incomes as to be able to pay them back, because individual acts have given them salaries which, possibly according to the job they perform, should be lower, according to the Court of Auditors, because they may not be able to achieve an education. It is true, however, that it may not be possible to achieve this education because there are no such programmes to achieve education or have been, with other individual acts, either by determining whether they are successful or, as far as possible, placed at such a level of pay as has then been translated into a new pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I warn or warn, Mrs Tina Tržan, that you can speak at any time, now or later. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u48	Given that there has been considerable debate on the Committee which approved the amendment, I would like to stress in particular that, on the basis of a thorough examination of the contents of the amendment, the Government also considers that such an amendment is appropriate, since the text of the authentic interpretation itself in previous statements clearly defines that Article 49a, which is found in the transitional provisions, is intended to translate the remuneration of a public official from the old system into a new system, is so reliable that it is not yet necessary to add the last sentence of the authentic interpretation. The government therefore supports the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll be very brief, due to unexpected facts. We did not have a presentation of the position of the Group of Members, so I will now take this opportunity to support the authentic interpretation and to support, on behalf of the Group of Members, the amendment tabled and unanimously adopted by the Committee of origin. I expect that the opposition parties who have also supported this amendment on the home committee, which deletes the last sentence of the authentic interpretation, will support this. The dilemmas we have heard today have been clarified. I think that both the proposer and the representative of the Government have clearly defined the importance of the authentic interpretation and have also proved that those inconsistencies that have been exposed have no real basis. The authentic interpretation will certainly finally remedy these inconsistencies and help to take into account, in determining wages from the previous to the new system, the justice that workers in the public sector expect. So there is no doubt that we will vote in favour of both the authentic explanation and the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Franci Kek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Vito Rozej. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Urh. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak cannot discuss it because the time of the Group is spent. The government's representative spoke. He wants another word from the Magi's proponent. Maja Potter? [[He doesn't want to.]] I would like to say that we have concluded the debate on the proposal for an authentic explanation. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation, the text and the amendment, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE OF THE SECOND PARAGRAPH 75. Article 63(1) of Regulation (EU) Article 75 in conjunction with the second paragraph. Member of the Act on takeovers. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by a group of Members, with Dusan Kumro first signed. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its first meeting, on 5 April 2011, the Committee on the Economy considered that proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation as the working body. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Legal and Legislative Service, President of the Board of the Securities Market Agency, representative of the Capital Society, d. d., Slovenian Compensation Society, President of the Society – Small shareholders – Together we are stronger and representative of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the position of the Securities Market Agency and the comments of the Society – Small shareholders – Together we are stronger. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the proposal has all the necessary elements from a business point of view to ensure that the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not appropriate, since the need for an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 75 and Article 63 is not demonstrated and that the proposed text of the authentic interpretation changes the meaning of the said Articles of the Law on takeovers. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Government, which, in view of the purpose of the proposal, does not object to an authentic interpretation. Representatives of the Society – Small shareholders – Together we are stronger and Council of the Securities Market Agency, which felt that there was no need for an authentic interpretation. In the debate, the majority of the members of the Committee, despite some negative opinions, considered that an authentic interpretation should be adopted because the legislation in force did not allow the State to exercise voting rights in companies partly state-owned. The proposal for an authentic interpretation is also intended to ensure that state-owned companies retain the voting rights of the State and thus protect state property. This has also drawn attention to the consequences that the possible non-acceptance would have on the State budget. The debate also set out an initiative to re-examine all possibilities for the implementation of the problem before the meeting of the National Assembly, taking into account the legal opinion. It is also proposed to re-examine part of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on takeover offers in the English version and to compare them with the Slovenian translation. The Committee member considered that the Slovenian translation was inadequate and was used as such in the preparation of the takeover law in 2006. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee first came to decide on the proposal for a decision whether the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 75 and Article 63 in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Law on takeovers should be adopted. The Committee adopted, by a majority of votes, that an authentic explanation should be adopted. In the light of the decision taken, the Committee went on to vote on the following proposal for a decision: The Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 75 and Article 63 in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Law on takeovers and the proposal for a text of the authentic interpretation be adopted in the present text. It also adopted such a decision by a majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. He wants to present the government's position? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u54	Your Honor! The Legislative and Legal Service states that the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Takeover Act and Article 63 in conjunction with that second paragraph of Article 75 is not necessary because those articles are sufficiently clear. The proposed interpretation would also constitute an amendment to the text as laid down by the legislator. Amendments and additions to laws cannot be a proposal for an authentic interpretation, but can only be subject to amendments and additions to the law which must be adopted in the legislative procedure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the purpose that authentic interpretation carries within us, but we regret that we are trying to find a shortcut again and literally abuse the institute of authentic interpretation. And this isn't the first time. We have already had a similar case when we used an authentic explanation to solve how to punish the Director of Post Slovenia, because something was unclearly written into the law. Today we have a much more serious problem, which can have very significant consequences for the country, because we are wondering how the country should carry out its ownership functions in companies where the owner is also in such a proportion that it exceeds this threshold for acquisition. It should be borne in mind that the rules are the same for everyone and for the country, for banks or for whom there should be no one. However, if you want to save the country or want to save it, use other institutions, such as the amendment of the takeover law. The National Assembly must be the first to protect fundamental legality and the principles and principles of law and the rule of law. We will therefore vote against this authentic explanation in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the decision of the parent working body proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the text of the takeover law. This is the interpretation of two articles which are extremely important for the protection of state property and the preservation of the voting rights of the State, co-owners of shares in several companies. They probably shouldn't be specifically listed. To refresh the memory, however, let me say that at this time it is companies such as A-banka, Krka, Petrol, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, Sava, Zavarovnica Triglav, Aerodrome Ljubljana. The 2006 Act provides that persons who reach or take over the final threshold on the date of application of the law in a given company shall not be obliged to make take-over offers, but must do so if they increase their share. With an authentic explanation, the Group of Members proposed that a transitional threshold should apply to all those who had more than 25 % of the shares in each company on the day of their entry into force. This is equivalent to the lowest percentage of persons from the date of entry into force of the law, following a proposal for an authentic interpretation. Until they exceed the transitional threshold, they do not need to be offered a takeover. How much would it cost today to publish acquisitions in all the companies against which the Agency is proceeding? According to a rough estimate, they can make take-overs of €4.5 billion or even more, meaning, by the way, about a 4-year contribution to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which must be allocated to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. It is true that in this case authentic interpretations, taking into account the mediated and published opinions of legal professionals, appear not to be in place. It is also true that there were similar situations in the National Assembly when decisions were taken that were not in full conformity with the doctrine of law. And since we do not currently have any other solution on the table that would be better than the proposal for this authentic interpretation, which I believe is the intention of all of us to support, we will not reject the support of DeSUS Members for the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which suggests that we accept an authentic explanation in the text presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! I'll start with Dr. Matjaž Nahtigal's opinion. I will try to be very reasoned on the position of the Slovenian National Party. Besides Mr. Nahtigal, of course, in those 10 minutes, I hope I can make it, I will not even go past the esteemed Professor Dr. Grad. Not to say that we are personally or because we are the SNS, because we are the opposition, we are opposed to this authentic explanation. Dr. Nahtigal wrote 14 days ago: "Instead of the increasingly uncompetitive, insider and oligarchist capitalism that we inherited through the privatisation processes of transition, we should carry out a deepening and democratisation of the market economy. The plurality of ownership, balance and diversity of ownership forms can lead to more efficient and transparent management of companies compared to the current inadequate and undercompetitive post-transition ownership structure. Such a transformation, in addition to a certain and deliberate privatisation of state-owned enterprises, is equally necessary for the real privatisation of the private sector, both representatives of institutionally conservative social democracy and advocates of selective neoliberalism are avoided. Given the issue of property rights, the dynamic Republic is significantly different from the traditional static Republic. While the last-concentrated property is a source of power and influence and exclusion of all others, modern forms of property rights in a dynamic republic are a source of integration of civil autonomy and the active realization of civil liberties". Why did I quote this text? Dr. Nahtigal's hit the punch line. The thing that's going on with us. We are in the process of concentration property as a source of power and influence and in the process of excluding all others. Not the others – us! This is clearly what led these governments now. The main purpose of the proposal is to preserve state-owned companies' voting rights and consequently protect state property. Which is a good goal and purpose, but at the same time it must be said that all others from any decision-making, codecision-making, must not be disputed. If we object, we'll be outvoted. Authenticity must be adopted, we have heard this because the legislation in force — that is, the substance — does not allow the state to exercise voting rights in companies partly owned by state. We therefore need to adopt an authentic interpretation because the legislation in force does not allow voting rights in companies partly state-owned. I want to know who in this government knows who is responsible for the exercise of the country's voting rights. I'd like to hear that. We have heard that this authentic explanation is also necessary because of the budgetary implications, and I am specifically talking about dividends. Who – tell me – is paying for the rehabilitation of banks? Who? Employers? With or without dividends, with or without profits? The case of Telekom – 200 million loss, Minister Radiceva must listen to the president of the administration, how poor they are and how there will be no dividends. I'm pretty sure in about a month or two we'll be talking about the recapitalisation of Telekom in the National Assembly. We have the AUKN, the Capital Investment Management Agency, we have the Kad and we have the Court. They managed social property, and because of them, those who managed it, we're where we are. Certainly not because of Barovic and the Slovenian National Party. And we increasingly agree with those who say that all three must be abolished today. And, of course, put them also in the identification of guilt and in the trial. The gentlemen who run these institutions, by the way, certainly have a much higher salary than even the President of the Government of this country. But we do, and they're wasting our money and destroying our country. They controlled state property, not us, them. We have a moment when the state regulator – the Securities Marketing Agency – has been involved, and it was perfectly clear that this authentic explanation does not have its place, because the article you want to amend or amend the law with an authentic explanation was that it is completely clear and that this is not necessary. Look, there's so much to explain. No, no, no. Although the regulator stayed, it's likely someone's afraid to replace it. Why? I don't know. Probably someone who's afraid of legal opinions, who's afraid of something else, but doesn't. Now, with an authentic explanation, they're supposed to say, "The regulator was wrong, he didn't understand us, the legislator, the regulator didn't understand us and he was thinking wrong. While we apologize to the regulator now, gentlemen of the ATVP, this is what this authentic explanation says, "because you misunderstood us, but you will." But the regulator was perfectly clear in his statements, the legislation was aware of the take-over threshold, the additional take-over threshold and the final take-over threshold. The previous threshold is a new institute that should and should be introduced only and only by law, call, and nothing else, not an authentic explanation. Here the regulator was clear as dew. Why don't we just adopt the new law as it should be? Why the authentic explanation? Authenticity cannot and must not change the law. And because I know you don't believe me, because you never believe me, I've always been right on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, but I'm going to end up quoting the eminence of constitutional law, the professor, the former Constitutional Judge Dr. France Grad. Dr. Franci Grad pointed out that the authentic interpretation could explain the existing legal provision in more detail, but it could not, but could not change its content. The authentic interpretation becomes part of a legal provision which is interpreted and shared in its entirety, which is also applicable since the law has been in force, i.e. retroactively, and further, if a new substance is concealed in the authentic interpretation, a new regulation which goes beyond the content of the applicable law is not admissible, the application of an authentic interpretation is not justified and the application of an authentic interpretation is not admissible. Of course. It is also attached to this by the Constitutional Court in various decisions and we can also refer to the previous point we have discussed. The professor added: "The proposed interpretation does not interpret the existing legal text, I speak concretely, but introduces a new content, and in particular this new content, which this authentic interpretation, applies to the law, applies to the so-called transitional threshold." Dear colleagues and colleagues, I, too, hope as Dr Grad hoped when he wrote that the rule of law and the power of argument and not the argument of power would prevail in voting on this authentic explanation. I'm afraid that won't be the case. But all of us, in this congregation or outside of it, in power or outside of power, will bear the consequences of today’s decision for the rest of our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will move the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! True, we face a difficult and difficult decision that weighs at least between two extremely important things. However, what prevails in our thinking is that the most effective way to protect state property is through authentic interpretation. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are retained at the principal level to all, and all, proposals for authentic explanations. However, the circumstances themselves sometimes suggest that unfortunately it is also necessary to cut down on this instrument, so we also signed a proposal for an authentic interpretation at the beginning of the procedure. In our view, by authentic interpretation, we are following the objective of substance, perhaps even broad consensus throughout the National Assembly. However, as is already widely known, the essence of this problem lies in the simple fact that the regulator of the Securities Market Agency in individual important companies has seized the voting rights of the state and state-owned enterprises. The Supreme Court, which followed the decision of the Securities Market Agency, confirmed this and also ordered that state entities have infringed their laws. An indisputable fact that exists. The regulator of the Securities Market Agency decided for such a move, i.e. the withdrawal of voting rights, on the basis of the fact that the State or its related companies had already reselled the shares and then bought them back, which means that these shareholders should definitely publish the acquisition. In fact, the higher threshold than the statutory threshold was only applicable to the situation in force when the takeover legislation was in force. That is why in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the decisions of the Agency for the Market in Securities and the rulings of the Supreme Court have become even more reserved for the proposal of an authentic interpretation. As we explained in the introduction, we wanted to strengthen the will of legislators that the State did not need to publish the acquisition of the share it owned by the enforcement of the law, even though it had already exceeded the legal threshold. This has been further influenced by the voter rights ratio, which has been established in practice by the withdrawal of voting rights. On the other hand, in the House of Members, we are also seriously aware of the danger that, despite the adoption of an authentic explanation, we will not be able to resolve the problem that we are working towards. Indeed, all those who show legal interest will also be able to challenge the authentic interpretation in the Constitutional Court, which has in some cases annulled the authentic interpretation, since it is supposed to interfere with the legal matter itself rather than to interpret it. If the Constitutional Court decides to do so, it shall not be Parliamentary, it shall not be debated, but that shall be done. Next, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we find this position. It means that the mandatory interpretation interferes with or changes in the content of marriage itself. There are many considerations, therefore, not all the answers are correct and do not say, but when we vote in this case, it will prevail that there is a need for an authentic interpretation with one exclusive and simple objective and the aim of protecting state property. That is how our vote will be today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we have heard that some decisions have been difficult, let me say that the decision for a group of unrelated Members – Solidarity is easy, because in fact we are only deciding on two options. One possibility is to follow in scissors that open up to one gender that wants to exercise political will and political interest and power, and the other half is one that speaks of the need to respect the expertise and principles of the rule of law. In doing so, our Group of Members decides not to support the proposal of an authentic explanation, because it only enforces this will, volunteering over the rule of law. So we decide in some clear connotation. As far as the good intentions and interests of protecting state property are concerned, of course this is perfectly legitimate, but the path to protection must also be as our legal system foresees. We know that we are now deciding this, once again just two questions, whether it is permissible to confirm what the proponents are proposing and whether it is necessary for an authentic interpretation to be adopted. Authenticity is needed when legal standards are not clear when there are very many differences in thinking about what these standards are trying to tell us. These ambiguities have not been seen in the profession, nor in any of them. We have not read the position that would speak of ambiguities, that these two articles, which concern an authentic interpretation, should be further explained, but all lawyers, experts say that this is clear. Others, the wrong-doers, and the proponents understand this differently from the profession, from legal experts. Whom should we believe now that we are not top legal experts? Trust the profession or the proponents of political kinds? And this profession, to remember once again, is, apart from the individuals mentioned, professors, experts involved, also our legal and legal service, which was unequivocal. This section is also the Legislative Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was unequivocal. This profession is also an ATVP for us, as the Government probably understands the ATVP as one that must protect the interests of all, including the countries, including the state interest, and must, of course, adhere to some legal standards in order not to be arbitrary when deciding. We therefore consider that there is no need for an authentic explanation, nor is it admissible. The signatories to the proposal are trying to justify why they actually proposed this authentic explanation. We could say that their argument is such that it is not a legal argument, but of course it is a political argument. The proposal came about because the ATVP had begun to sanction the infringement. And this is its function, this is the function of the ATVP, the Securities Market Agency, to protect the legislation adopted and to follow this legislation. Some people don't like that now. Secondly, it has been recognised that in the past it has occurred to those who are state-owned persons to have uncontrolled access to state property, because it is known that it has been sold and purchased, and it is known that, in the meantime, we have changed some law which has obliged all those who have state ownership to report to an information centre to know what the state of state property is and that it will be known what is going to be done in this regard either by exceeding or not exceeding the threshold. And if we know and if individual laws can already be proposed and changed in the meantime, it is not clear why this law, if we want to change it with a political majority in Parliament, we do not do why we do not then change this law. By this time we are dealing with an authentic explanation, we could have adopted, by emergency procedure, a novelty of this law, which we all have in mind, the Law on takeovers. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also interesting. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not supported the proposal of an authentic interpretation. She wrote that she did not object, but she wrote that she did not object to the intentions. She did not write anything, but she insists on respect for marriage. And nothing answered the question whether she agreed that legal standards were unclear. She didn't give that answer. Nor is it allowed to change these two articles. So this is how we read what the Government wrote in its opinion. The government is also a nuisance in the situation itself, because it cannot support what is against the rule of law and because it knows that what is proposed in the authentic interpretation is also in its political interest. We wonder if the applicants claim that others are misinterpreting how the entire legal profession explains mistakes and the political volunteers are correct. If they are talking about how the articles are not clear, how is it that some who get to know the legal profession are clear and not political volunteering? When they talk about protecting good purposes, we wonder who they are who want bad because no one has been named. Who is the one who wants to harm national interest and state property? I could now list, as has already been mentioned, from Dars, Kada, Soda, Slovenian Railways until I don't know who else is protecting state property by spending it. And we have had many such cases, at least the Public Finance Supervisory Commission knows this very well. Because it seems to us that it makes no sense, since it is doubtful that someone could vote differently than the state would have wanted, let us say, at a congregation or a supervisory council, to bow to political will more than the rule of law, we will object to this authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u64	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Good afternoon to the representative of the government and to all colleagues and colleagues in the hall! The Group of the Social Democrats will provide authentic interpretation of the second paragraphs of Article 75 and Article 63 in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Law on takeovers – 1 will be supported. There's more than one reason. First, let me mention those who are involved in the adoption of the takeover law itself five years ago and with the aim of being understood and adopted by the then government and the Ministry of Economy, which have prepared a proposal for a law in the form that the legislator, i.e. the National Assembly, has subsequently adopted. If both the Government and the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, when adopting the law and the two articles proposed by the group of applicants, were to understand, as understood by the Agency for the Market in Securities and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, that would certainly not be allowed by Luka Koper, the New Credit Bank of Maribor, the Aerodrome of Ljubljana and the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Nuclear Power Plant of Krk, that they would not be allowed immediately after the entry into force of the Law on takeovers – 1, that is, from 14 August 2006, they would not be able to purchase and purchase shares of companies which are reasonably covered by the second paragraph of Article 75, such as shares of Krka, Petrola, Sava Re, Aerodroma, Save, Telekom and New Credit Bank of Maribor. This view alone in the past is a solid enough basis for the validity of the authentic interpretation, which states that, as provided for in the second sentence of Article 75(2), it is necessary to conclude that the persons referred to in the first paragraph of this Article should be used in an authentic interpretation, but it is not meant to explain what it means, since the understanding of this Article in 2006 was such that it can be understood that both the Government and the Ministry of Economy and the National Assembly have understood that this is a special transitional threshold, which is always equal to the lowest proportion of voting rights that these persons have had since the date of implementation of the Law on takeovers – 1 onwards. Thus, even if a share was sold in the middle and the controlling share was reduced, it means that this threshold is no longer the one that was adopted on the day of the adoption of the law, but the one that was lower than it was adopted for the sale of shares. It would be logical for the ATVP to apply Article 63, paragraph 2, in its conduct, which states that the control share owner must sell those shares that exceed that intermediate threshold. This is particularly important in cases where those persons alienate a certain number of securities or other rights that are taken into account in the determination of voting rights under Article 6 of the Law on takeovers – 1 and then regain a certain number of securities or other rights that are taken into account in the determination of those voting rights by not achieving or exceeding that transitional threshold or if the existing proportion of voting rights is reduced after the date of application of the Law on takeovers into account. Since the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Law on takeover – 1 establishes the so-called transitional threshold, in such cases it should therefore be considered that they do not have to be offered in accordance with the Takeover Act — 1. In addition, I should mention the tenth preambular paragraph of Directive 2004/25/EC of April 2004 which has interpretation power in the Republic of Slovenia. This also provides that the obligation to make a takeover offer to all holders of securities shall not apply to those control shares which already exist at the date of entry into force of the national legislation which adopts this Directive. I have used the English version, i.e. the original English version of this Directive, because the Slovenian translation of this paragraph of this Directive is inconsistent, not to say wrong, and therefore the English version should be taken into account. The Slovenian translation states that the obligation to make an offer to all securities holders shall not apply to those securities holders which have a controlling share of securities at the date of entry into force of the national legislation which takes over this Directive. Contrary to this translation, the English version speaks of exceptions to the control shares existing at the date of entry into force of the national legislation which adopts this Directive. This should therefore be seen as establishing a transitional threshold. We have been told many times why we do not accept amendments and supplement the takeover law, which could fully remedy this situation. Anyone who knows that the amendments to the law cannot apply from the date of its entry into force in 2006 to adopt the Law on takeovers – 1, while the authentic interpretation indicates the purpose of the National Assembly and the purpose of the bill at the time of the adoption of the law, that is, in the middle of 2006, in relation to these two articles. We believe that many among you doubt that we laymen, legal laymen, can better understand or have the right to understand otherwise the provisions of Articles 75 and 63 of the Law on Takingovers — 1. But there's something else you need to know. It is necessary to know that we are the ones who adopt legislation. And that we were there, many of us when this legislation was adopted in 2006. And I believe that, as I have already said, both the Government and the National Assembly have understood the objective, the meaning, because already these transitional provisions were written, unfortunately they were written as transitional provisions, should be written in the content of the law. But it was already clear that this is essentially about protecting the interests of state-owned enterprises. And then there's the next one. If so, in our view, the misinterpretation of the law, as directed by the Securities Market Agency, will be in the meetings of companies for which the Securities Market Agency has, or will continue to issue, decisions on the withdrawal of voting rights, rather than merely requiring the resale of an excess number of shares to occur, in particular in this case, and probably in this case any other owner, after all, because it was not only the state shares at the time. But the consequences can be very severe. For example, in the congregations of these companies, minority shareholders of companies whose minority share will be sufficient to vote, for example, will have the following conclusions: conclusions for which a common majority is needed, say, a decision on the distribution of balance-sheet profits, the risk of distribution of excessive dividends – we just heard one of the colleagues talking about how Telekom is crying because he has 200 million losses, but then at the assembly he will want not to share the undistributed profits from past years, if you are, how is this understood? [[...]] It can be understood, however, that the interest of some people in this country, in order to share profits, is an undistributed profit from past years. Despite the company's losses, which were incurred by companies owned by the majority of the country, due to mismanagement and decisions prior to 2008, before the elections, since they then purchased unproductive and unreliable investments in, in particular, Telekom, in the former republics of Yugoslavia, then, for example, the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in accordance with their own interests in the event that the mandate of the former members of the Supervisory Board expires, then, for example, the granting of the power of the Administration to purchase their own shares, or the decisions for which a qualified majority is required, that is 75%, in the conclusion of the represented core capital, such as changes to the statute, for example by voting the decisions on the approved capital by excluding the right, the shares may be issued for real investments, the change in the number of members of the management bodies and the appointment of new members, for example by voting the decisions on the approved capital by excluding the company's priority, by reducing the risk of the company's shareholding of the capital injection of the capital. We have now seen that the decision to introduce a single management of companies was actually questionable. However, in particular cases to list them, in the Aerodrome Ljubljana, the specific benefits of the Public Treasury, d.o.o., which has only 2.67% equity share, would have increased to a weak 9% without a group of countries, while in the company of the Republic of Slovenia Kad and the Court of Justice, 63% of the equity share. In Krka Novo mesto, the largest shareholder with voting rights would become the New World Fund Inc., which has only 2.40% equity share, the individual largest shareholder. However, the largest voting shareholder in Petrol would become two related holding companies, Vision Holding, and Vision Holding 1 owned by Mr South, who now hold 9.57%, which means that they would absolutely gain an advantage in this case in voting, at least for the general majority. And the next would be in Petrol Istrabenz, an interesting one who wanted to become the main stake of Petrol, which now has only 4% equity, but when the country is excluded from voting rights, suddenly would become a very important voter. For Telekom, who has not yet issued a decision, say the NFD of Mr Stanek Valant, with a 2.36% share, would receive 8.69% of the voting rights. The perspective, p. p., of Mr South, which is the fourth largest shareholder or shareholder, would shift from 0.75% to 2.76%. In the meantime, there are two investment funds which cannot be deprived of voting rights, namely PPS and Triglav, which go beyond this perspective and are immediately for the NFD. And there's one more thing. It is also possible that the group of countries in all of these companies, which I mentioned earlier – it is said to repeat again; Krka, Petrol, Sava Re, Aerodrome, Sava, Telekom, Nova KBM – should publish a takeover bid to reach the final threshold of 75% of all shares in all these companies. That would cost the country or, if we had to do that, it would cost 4 and a half billion euros. But we can do something else, say, in Luka Koper and all the other companies listed, we sell shares up to 25% minus 1 shares. What would that mean? This would mean that the State would be forced to sell, because this is the interpretation of the Securities Market Agency and also the Legal and Legal Service, because indirectly, let's say, if we just compare, Luka Koper had the value of shares in 2006, I know this because my youngest son is by chance the only one in the family that has any shares, and he has 50 shares in the port of Koper, then it was worth 150 euros, one share, today it's worth 13 euros. [[...]] It is true that there will never be another 150 euros worth of shell stock, at least I am sure of it, but it will certainly not be only 13 euros for a long time. It is said that the State should sell its assets below any normal price. What good is that? It is beneficial for those who want these shares at such a low price that the country would be forced to sell to buy. And I don't think that's our interest. And now that's all I'd say. I repeat the dates on which the provisions of Articles 75 and 63 and Article 6 and Article 7 of the Law on takeovers were breached immediately after the adoption of the Act, according to the ATVP. Since the 14th. 8. 2006 to 23. 6. The shares of those companies were purchased in 2008. Why didn't the Securities Market Agency react at the time? We believe that because she has understood the law in the way we understand it in our Group of Members, we will therefore, again, support this authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u66	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It is quite amazing to hear the current coalition justifying the substantively unacceptable, illegal, unprofessional and unconstitutional solutions proposed by this authentic explanation. It excuses them for having been the previous proponent, the previous government and the National Assembly of Opinions such as this authentic interpretation, contrary to all the profession that is now interpreting this, justifying what harm would be caused to the State and that this is really unacceptable to allow me to do so. It's quite amazing how far the "target excuses the means" principle goes. It's just unbelievable. Instead of being this temple, this House of Democracy, they call it, some example of respect for the law of the Constitution, it is only to achieve something, I do not know what interests over all of this, through all the opinions that experts have put on this victory, which is called an authentic explanation. We cannot and will not support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And of course, that's why we have many reasons. We have also heard that it was already possible to understand this law in 2006 as it is now proposed by an authentic interpretation. That's not true. The government here has been very clear on the proposal for takeover legislation. Parliament has approved this law. By the way, this law was also coordinated in the so-called partnership for development, a partnership with which the Social Democrats worked. And for the first time in the history of Slovenia, this law has regulated the takeover legislation in its entirety, in accordance with the directives, the takeover directive, the European acquis and, last but not least, it has reached a higher standard of protection for small shareholders. And I understand the Ministry of the Economy that it is now in trouble because the profession of this ministry, where most of the same people are, today, as it was then, has prepared this takeover law with external experts. The takeover law has been the target of numerous attacks, political attacks in this mandate. Even the Commission of Inquiry has been set up to determine the political responsibility of the then officials involved in the drafting of this law, which is intended to lead to deviations in relation to managers' buy-ins, acquisitions and so on. Of course, this commission of inquiry cannot and has found nothing in this direction. The coalition didn't find anything in this direction either. To this day, the Coalition has not proposed amendments to the provisions of the legislation which would address the weaknesses and inconsistencies of the legislation. To this day, this takeover law is as good as it was, because I think it's good. There are some principles, and it would be nice for those of you who are talking about reading them today. One of the very important principles of that law is that it was significantly stricter in determining what persons are connected, i.e. those who together form a share and then are obliged to make a takeover offer because they are considered to be connected persons. It is also essential that higher standards of protection of small shareholders, including the state, have been achieved. And now we get to the country, the previous takeover legislation has exempted the country as a pledge to make takeover bids. The state could have accumulated its ownership, no matter what the other shareholders did. This 2006 takeover law has reached the same standard for the country as for the other shareholders. However, it avoided one problem which would have arisen when the law was in force, if the law had not exceeded the final threshold and this normal 25 % threshold would have been exceeded, in itself, in order to enforce the law, in that case no takeover offer would have to be made. In the event of any additional purchase, regardless of whether or not the sale was earlier and exceeds 25 % of the acquisition threshold, it is logical to make a takeover offer. It is logical for everyone, but it is true that these state-owned owners are likely and still are likely to listen or, I don't know, respect other laws than those adopted by the National Assembly. But the fact that these people do not adhere to the law neither excuses us nor travels us to rescue them from impossible situations, regardless of whether they are respected, in which mandate and in which society they have done so. It is unacceptable that we are now dealing with the situation of those who manage state property by authentic explanation, and all those same operators are still in all the chairs as today and will not be subject to any sanctions, only their case should be covered by this authentic explanation. Your Honor, this is unacceptable. Such an attitude towards the rule of law in this country, particularly with regard to billions of euros, is unacceptable. And now it is being solved, in fact, funny, a few partial interests, and a few recent cases have emerged to the court at the bottom and are also being dealt with by the Securities Market Agency as the only regulator. Honourable proponents, in mockery of the independent securities market regulator, in mockery by the profession, even by the government, are proposing the solutions you are supposed to use to protect the country. You're talking about the damage to the country, nothing will be harmed by the state, not even one euro. The publication of the takeover offer, due to the need to go beyond, of course also needs to obtain a bank guarantee, the country has, by the way, almost 3 billion deposits in banks, about 2 billion euro deposits in the New Ljubljana Bank and will certainly be easy to obtain a guarantee of taking over, which of the small shareholders will sell in this acquisition offer shares that are at such a low level. And there will be no need to give anything if something has to be given, but the state will buy back what is available on the market at this low price. And I find it hard to understand that we could talk about damage to state property. And I ask you, which of the state-owned owners who cooked this mess that you're saving has been responsible for his work and which will and what procedures are adopted? I don't know any, just all of you staring at a situation you've cooked yourself. The authentic interpretation is controversial in two aspects. First, by content. In fact, it is not allowed to exercise with this transitional threshold. The threshold is 25%. Final substantially higher and pointy. If the State has been in force at some point in time, it must not buy, even if it has previously sold and is above the threshold. This was the basic goal, the purpose of the original law, which is interpreted by everyone like I just said. All of you, all of you, and the Securities Market Agency, except for those of you, will be supported here by the proponents of this authentic explanation. The second thing that's unacceptable, in addition to content, is the way. If you want to change that, you have to go to law school. It is necessary to amend the law, not by authentic interpretation, to exercise under the existing law. They would probably have encountered difficulties in complying with this law with a directive. The confiscation of voting rights is merely a result of all this indecisive, illegal activity of the operators of this state property. And that's why he's protecting them in some way now. In the coalition, you should once understand that you cannot and that it is not wise that you are hostages of some unacceptable actions of individuals and that you are saving them in every way with unconstitutional solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation and on the text of an authentic explanation. Mr Franco Juri has the floor to prepare Mr Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. The debate on the authentic interpretation that we are deciding today is multilayered, complex, certainly opens up a key dilemma, or it could be avoided by timely legislative changes. Probably the answer is yes. We should have long ago, if the dilemma is the inadequacy of marriage, cut into marriage and changed it. Perhaps we could do so now too, but this would not solve the key question for us back, all that remains open and that may, as it has been heard and what we can believe, greatly harm the public and public interest. If we do not accept this authentic explanation, I fear that the way forward will be open and the continued will of the minority of owners in individual companies. There is probably a clear dilemma here about the strict legalistic interpretation of this debate and whether the institution of authentic interpretation is a justified means and also a legally justified means of doing something in the interest of the public interest when the law at this point is inaccurate. The fact is that colleague Breda Pecan initially said something essential that, when the law was formed, the interpretation was without an authentic explanation, but the interpretation of the law was one that allowed certain procedures that would be disputed today from the point of view of today's regulator. Therefore, since this inadequacy exists, something has to be said. Our explanation may be flawed from a legal, professional point of view and certainly political. But we are Members today and our dilemma is to weigh between damaging public interest, including state property and strict legal logic, which, however, helps tycoons, helps. If they hold the information that has been suggested that, without this authentic explanation, it may occur that the owner of 2% of ownership can decide instead of the state owner who is deprived of voting rights, of course, we are faced with a serious paradox and a serious dilemma where we must be aware as Members of Parliament, of whom and in what interest we are acting. When we make our decision today, I, as a Member of Parliament and as a citizen, will decide for the public interest. And if the public interest is the protection of state property, I will also hope to risk further criticism by those who feel that the interest of 4% of the owner of Istrabenz in Petrol must be guaranteed, but not by a country that is trying to prevent such behaviour in some way. So if this is the dilemma, of course I will take my part of the responsibility and this time I will vote in favour of this authentic explanation in the hope that the Government will understand this as a message that the law needs to be amended in such a way that there will be no more or no more such debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think the proponents are following two wings. One is, "The problem is the other," and the other is, "The gulf of everything is mistrust." That's true, I'm going to read from a list of papers on which I have a few words written from a magnetogram that came from the part of my mother's working body. It says, for example, that it is imperative to accept this authentic explanation, "or other shareholders will cause extremely great damage to the country". So everyone else who's not a country is a pity, they're pests. What logic does it make if we look at everything with so much mistrust? Next, "the interests of the state and its property must be protected." What logic is it if the ATVP only protects one type of property, not property in general? Be small, whether medium or large, everything, that's the rule of law. All owners do not rely on the size of ownership must have the same rights guaranteed and must be equally protected. Next they say, "It's better to overlook any lawbreaker than to risk bankruptcy." Let's just call it in, let's all go ahead, break it down, just to protect those we've appointed to the congregations, to the supervisory boards, to the administrations, and so on. Yeah, what logic do we follow? And as for the ambition to change the law, I read again, "amendment of the takeover law will not help because it will not apply back". So they explicitly admit, we have to change something back with an authentic explanation, which is forbidden.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you. The word has fewer of you. [[...]] Mr. Vizjak. Here you go, Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u72	So, these few seconds. Look, it's not true. No harm will come to the country. At least in the case of a State issuing a takeover offer in accordance with the law where it is required. Even less, it will arise if it loses any voting rights, as the country is always, as a rule, due to political staffing, acting as an extremely bad and irresponsible owner. That is why we also know and see what the business results of a number of companies are.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to say that it is necessary to ask who are those individuals who should be called to account, that at this time from 14 August 2006 until, I think that in January of this year this purchase has stopped 3, 4, 6, and 200 or 300 shares, and then sell again and so on. Why are these members of the boards of directors of these companies, specifically Luke Koper, for example? Why did Mr. Timer allow himself without asking the Minister of Transport, who was then the one who decided what Luke Koper's strategy was when it was to manage assets? Why didn't he ask the then Minister of Transport whether he could do it or not, given that Luka Koper knew all along that he was a connected person, that he was in a group of states owned by, say, Krka or, I think, the airport or New KBM. Why didn't he do it? Why, for example, didn't the director or the director do, or what he was, the director, yes, the decommissioning fund of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant? The fund is in a group of states. The Securities Market Agency shall consider it a member of the Group of States. Why, say, Nova KBM, Mr. Kovacic did not ask the Finance Minister Dr. Bayuk whether we can buy shares of Krka, Petrol and so on in 2006, 2007, 2008? Then why didn't he also ask Mr Križanič, Minister of Finance? He should now ask probably the Director of the State Capital Investment Management Agency. Why didn't they do it? In fact, the ones you want to point out didn't even buy the shares of these companies. If we are talking about Mr. Toplak and Mr. Pogačnik and Mr. Jamnik, I apologize to him for not remembering the last name, the Director of the Compensation Society – these four did not buy these shares that would cause the infringement, the alleged violation of the takeover law – 1. Why didn't someone come then – when we're already at Krka, which I believe does not belong to the Ministry of Health, but belongs to the Ministry of the Economy, or, say, Sava – why they didn't come and say, "Listen, there your shareholders in the various associations you have are making serious mistakes, they are violating the Law on takeovers". Why didn't they come, for example, to Mr. Visionary? Strange, isn't it? I have to say that I was hoping, when we passed the Capital Investment Management Agency Act, that we will finally get some comprehensive review of what is actually going on with the management of state assets in a crowd of companies, because sometimes the state has 2, 3, 1%, because it hasn't sold these shares yet. I really don't understand what was going on. It appears that a central institution has indeed had to be set up to take stock of everything that is going on with state property. And another institution that's going to deal with real estate by unfortunately not seeing enough of it again, not from each other or from the other. As a result, we can say that the country will have no harm if it is forced to buy shares, so that it will be able to reach the final threshold after the takeover is announced. This is about serious things. This isn't a game of numbers. However, to talk about the state having 3 billion deposits in banks and thereby obtaining bank guarantees – please! People who listen to this probably do not know that these deposits are not just meant to be given to banks, but that they have been given to banks so that banks can borrow abroad because it is essentially the protection of the state for their lending. And so I have to say that there was a great deal of hearing about how the previous government made the law literally so that it would be done as Dr. If so, why did it not stop the first purchase on 14 August 2006, which exceeded the established threshold that was allowed because it was between the takeover and the final takeover threshold? Why didn't she take action? I should warn the agency that something's wrong if the agency itself didn't find out. Does the agency need to do something to read the paper and look into the newspaper, in fact, at what happens in the area of its control? Well, regulators are, as they are, I can only hope that this school that we are now passing through will finally achieve what is the right goal. The real goal is order, not Blut und Boden order, but order, which will lead to those who do something doing something doing with the realization that they are truly responsible for their actions. Let's ask them, gentlemen, I don't think any lady was in the middle of anything, let's ask those gentlemen what led them to do such nonsense, I can't say otherwise. Because you know how to buy 250 shares in a stock fund that's 200 grand, and I really think first-class bullshit is, you know, not at all what you're actually doing, basically challenging the regulator to hit you with claws. I think it's a possibility that we can correct mistakes and not repeat them again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you. All the advertised and present discussers you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening an application for discussion. Five minutes. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u76	The proponents and supporters of this authentic explanation justify their support for this solution, which, by the way, has been given both professional and formal mistrust by individuals who should question politicians acting unlawfully and now must be resolved by policy despite not asking any questions. The statements already made that the authorities of the management and control of companies have to question their policies about their purposes are a kind of basic ignorance of economic law and of some corporate way of operating economic operators. No wonder we are where we are, it is not surprising that our economy has become troubled, but if we are obviously ruling, we have heard earlier Mrs Bredo Pecan, they expect that for every purchase of shares, for every business decision, they will question the relevant ministers or I don't know who else. This is a symptom of why I see that there have also been proposals such as this on the table. So I believe that those who act unlawfully must be held accountable for this, regardless of which mandate, when and which owner put them there. I've got Luke Koper's video clip in front of me when she was buying A Bank shares. This happened last year, she sold them, she estranged them, and that the accident was even bigger, she did not do it alone, but one of the managers of her assets did it for her own account. It's funny that the state trusts someone else to buy shares on her behalf and on her behalf. So we've heard that weighting here, on the one hand, is damage, due to the lack of acceptance of this authentic explanation and perhaps some unfortunate, perhaps even a little professionally incomplete solution to this authentic explanation. Your Honor, why are you so sure that this is going to cause any harm? Where will any damage be done? If, of course, the State will have to act as any person who has increased the share above the threshold in order to restore voting rights, that is to say, the State will also be subject to the same rule as all others, and will have to buy shares or have to make a takeover offer and make a guarantee for this takeover offer. If someone decides to accept this takeover offer, it will probably be at a relatively low price, since the last period is very low. Here we talked mainly about public companies, i.e. companies quoted on the stock exchange, the Slovenian stock exchange index is catastrophically low. So in this case, the state has acquired shares under favourable conditions, and I don't know where the damage is if someone had already sold or responded to this takeover offer. In the second case, the withdrawal of voting rights is obtained by minority owners of an important word. From the experience I have, I tell you that no minority owner who is, I don't know, with a percentage, two or up to ten in a country in an economic society, will collide with his actions beyond the agreement with the country, will be, on fundamental issues, because that's irrelevant because it's crazy, stupid, pointless. That's not gonna cause any damage here, either. However, if a politician in a supervisory council had lost his chair and had been replaced by perhaps a better qualified professional in the economy, I could see some added value in this. So once again, I think that the proposal to resolve this authentic interpretation is unacceptable, both from a professional point of view – the ministry has not been able to say this – but it is even more controversial from a formal, constitutional point of view. It is a grave intervention in the matter of marriage, probably simply to settle matters backwards, that is, to eliminate any problems of the procedures already under way. It is certain that the agency or anyone interested will initiate a constitutional review and that this solution will not have the same effect as the applicants believe.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, how to make decisions and what rules to follow. It was clear a little earlier, and it was also apostrophe that it was not the case that economists should now continue to hand out handcuff each other and ask policy what they should and should not do. Anyone who thinks that way thinks wrong, but this logic of thinking just goes on, even in this authentic explanation. This proposal for an authentic explanation wants us to think purely politically, not focusing on other criteria of thinking, rationality and some logic and so on. Look how fast this turns out. When, for example, someone is talking about that we are not all lawyers, which we hold, and that we are politicians and that, as politicians, we have the right to think in our own way, no one is denying it. We all have the right to think in our own way, even differently. However, we do not have the right to think past the law or through some formal structure, beyond what we call a rule on which we can all achieve similar results. We can't all have our own rules. But what it would look like if politics were to say once that 2 x 3 is 6. The second time that doesn't suit her the most, I'd say yes, 2 x 3 is 8 and it would have worked. It's not working! This is the starting point. The starting point for all of us is to stick to the basic rules. Then we can also face our own thoughts. These basic rules are given in legal logic and are also given in legislation, which, as I say, some want to change with this authentic explanation, and some talk about simply explaining it differently, saying, "We are just explaining it." Now again, the question is, who is the right measure for "we." Who is the one who authorizes someone to think right, who authorizes someone to understand a certain legal norm? However, we must probably look at those who are, by definition, lawyers, those who are in functions that need to take care of legal correct thinking, constitutionally and legally, this is our Legislative and Legal Service, that is probably also the Government's Law Service and, of course, someone else. And when it comes to us separating only politically, but we have no legal arguments for this, let's say, what we say, is that those who have proposed this authentic explanation have to say that they are only staying at the political will that has no professional basis. And when this is done, others have every right to oppose it and not feel like a pest to government property. For this means what some have said, "those who do not support the authentic interpretation, as we suggest, allow others to rip up state property, to decide on it," it was previously stated that everything is decided by the congregations and the supervisory councils, but such a reference is totally unjustifiable. And those who think differently, we do not defend all those, I will not repeat the names and surnames that have been listed. We have nothing to do with them, at least for the most part, and we have no interest in defending them personally. However, we have an interest in deciding what the legal profession has said, as we believe it is right. There's no reason why we should be taking our heads off right now if the state is going to go bankrupt because of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation and on the text of an authentic interpretation, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, within half an hour of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u80	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Community Financing in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm breaking up. For a moment, we will not repeat the vote because the error, as it is called, is subjective. Is it still not working? Once again, we must remind you that we will not repeat the vote, so of course I declare the result. There are 70 Members and Members present. It's 67 votes against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am moving on to the end of the 19th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 49a of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The conclusion of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49a of the Law on the Public Sector Wage Scheme is adopted." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, depending on the first vote, Dr. Gorenak. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I think we're really going to vote three times. We are therefore in the authentic interpretation of the Public Sector Wage System Act, whether or not it is necessary. We will therefore vote on this. We will support this proposal in the parliamentary group. But there's one thing I need to know. If I'm figurative, then I have to say the following. Fish, Mr Šoltes, is fishing for small fish, last caught fish in Drama in Ljubljana and some other public institutions. It was for those workers of the lowest variety, physical workers, some middle-class and none of those great. However, when he met a similar fish in Ljubljana City, he did not require a refund. In the case of Drama and some other institutions, however, he demanded a refund. Of course, Mr Soltes, in the form of a fisherman, figuratively speaking, is not capable of catching dots, especially those which are hidden in the LDS pond in the image of Minister Kresalova. Authenticity would not, in fact, be necessary if Mr Soltes acted in a consistent, correct and fair manner towards everyone. And this time, he's getting into the lowest categories of people who have nothing or have very little anyway. The drama and some other public institutions have ordered that they have to make payroll payments, even 20 years ago, if they have had a salary unlawfully fixed, in his opinion all these years, and when the system 2008 is implemented, this has not been eliminated. In any case, we find such a decision by the Court of Auditors totally unacceptable because, in my opinion or in our opinion, it is also contrary to legislation. Because if a person has a legally issued decision since 1975, and since 1980 onwards, his salary has been miscalculated, such a person cannot repay that money if the state has made a mistake if the employers have made a mistake. Last but not least, this man could have taken credit, and today we're sending him an account for 10,000 euros. Last but not least, he was able to get a scholarship for the children, and he could pay for the daycare. Is he gonna get that back now? And as a result, if we do not accept an authentic explanation, it can even happen that we will have between 8 and 16 thousand lawsuits before the courts, namely those of the lowest workers. That's not good. Therefore, the authentic interpretation, in our view as a whole, as proposed, should also be accepted. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 3. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly, so we are moving on to the text of an authentic explanation, namely the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. This amendment was adopted by us on the committee, I think, unanimously. The amendment says - what? The amendment speaks of deleting the last sentence of the authentic explanation. However, the last sentence of the authentic interpretation states that in 2008, when the system is translated, the situation is not determined. This would in practice mean — what? In practice, this means that we very precisely determine what the situation is. If we accept this amendment, the warnings were also given by those affected after the committee meeting, then we will leave a unclear situation. And in spite of an authentic explanation, as in the case of Mercury, I'm sure they'll require payment. Individual directors will understand the authentic explanation in such a way that no payment is required. That is why we will vote against this amendment. But I urge you to vote against it, too. If we vote against it, then this sentence, which says that in 2008 it does not determine the situation 20 years ago, if you want, will be entered into an authentic explanation. And if this is an integral part of the authentic explanation, then there will be a clear situation for all directors of public institutions, everyone will be able to understand this, so that the situation in 2008 is not determined when the translation takes place. But if we accept the amendment, there will be a double explanation. Some directors will understand this, other directors will understand this. I call on you, however, to reject this amendment, despite the unanimously adopted amendment on the Committee. If we reject the amendment, I repeat, in the integral text of the authentic explanation, which the Government also agrees with, I stress, the Government agrees, we leave this sentence in an authentic explanation. And the situation will be clear, let us avoid 8 - 16 thousand lawsuits, avoid all problems because one director of the institution will understand this, the other director of the institution will understand this. In short, we will play a role that will be clear to all, fair to all, and clear to the courts, and that will not result in so many lawsuits. I call on you to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 37 votes in favour, 31st in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Procedurally, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, before the final vote on the authentic interpretation, I request a 45-minute period for consultations in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We're going to have to do a voice explanation sooner. Who wants to explain the vote when voting on the proposal for a text of an authentic explanation in full? [[No, no, ……]] The explanation is now, then your representative will have your group, I think, three minutes to explain, if he wants to, just explain things. That's how it's always been. That's right. It's not gonna change. Dr. Gorenak, it won't change. Any other parliamentary groups would like to explain their voice? Individuals? The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I'm taking 45 minutes off. We'll continue the meeting at 13.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u87	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. We're at the 19th item of the agenda. We vote on the proposal for a text of authentic interpretation in full. We're before the vote. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The product that's right in front of us could be called a Mercedes without wheels, but since a car like that doesn't go anywhere, we're not gonna get in that car. Indeed, the authentic interpretation has now been adopted in this part. However, the amendment adopted by the coalition deleted that provision which states that the situation before the translation of the system in 2008 is not verified. This means that different directors of different institutions will understand this completely differently. As in the case of Mercury, where an authentic interpretation had already been adopted, Judge A understood it differently, Judge B. And we will have exactly the same situation now. But the situation is still the following, and which is even more problematic, which is why we don't go to this Mercedes without wheels. What did the Council of Justice say? The Council of Justice said, "Yes, okay, we agree with the authentic explanation if it does not apply to officials or to us." You know that everyone who reads the authentic explanation will also read the debate on the committee. And they will be able to do what? They will say, "I, you see, this is how it is going to be now, for myself," so I won't make an ugly statement, "but they've taken care of these Members of Parliament and they've taken care of the other Judges." You see, this is what the wrong message is to the public. This is a completely wrong message to the public. In a few months, we will have — what situation? The fact that some directors of the institutions will now withdraw because they will understand this in a way understood by the coalition, other directors of public institutions will lower their salaries, introduce judicial proceedings, claims for back up to €10,000, to those people living on either side with €600 or €700. You see, this is the wrong message from the coalition. I know the coalition has a strong mill with concrete stones that have been grinding for two and a half years. It also grinds all the stones between this grain. But, you know, now she's been skating, and I have a feeling that she's also going to break down, this coalition. Actually, there's a lot of signs. That's why we're gonna hold on to this bikeless Mercedes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 75 and 63 in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Law on takeovers. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 75 and Article 73 in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Takeover Act shall be adopted." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 33. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a text of an authentic explanation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 33. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the eve of today's agenda, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the Convention on Trisphoric Councils for the Promotion of the Implementation of International Labour Standards (Moden Convention No. 144. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of a list on the modification of the constitution of the international organization of works. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on participation in education, science and culture. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since the parent working body has not adopted amendments under the second reading, the amendments at the meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on cooperation in culture, education and science. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members are present. He voted 75 against no one. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Government's proposal for the appointment of the Attorney General. The proposal for appointment was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u90	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are extremely reserved for the government's proposal to place Mr Zvonko Fischer as the new state's attorney. It may not be necessary to explain extensively how important this function is, especially at a time when public confidence in the rule of law is undoubtedly at the lowest point in the history of Slovenia. Given that the Head of Prosecutors is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no doubt that this is also a political function. In this place it would be right to think more broadly and to take such important leading positions in our justice system, propose people who do not incur so much resistance and dissatisfaction in such a large part of the Slovenian public. Because despite such a large part of Slovenian public opinion, it does not in any way contribute to greater confidence in the independence of the Slovenian judiciary or to the better functioning of the prosecution. This is precisely the objective that the applicant should pursue and try to achieve that the new Head of State Prosecutors would not bring new doubts, accusations and general dissatisfaction, but would bring freshness and new energy into the work process in the new mandate for the State Prosecutor's Office. Even candidates for such publicly exposed cities would be expected by the Slovenian People's Party's Group to deal with the fact that the time for new people is new faces and for purely ethical reasons would not apply to such places. For we all know that things were completely different before independence and that what independence of the judicial system from the then political regime before independence cannot be talked about. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we do not want to go into individual cases, and we also believe that it is entirely human to make mistakes in the course of a long-term work and sometimes make mistakes, as the candidate also said at the hearing of the Mandate-Election Commission. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the current situation in the country is too sensitive and that the Government should not continue in accordance with its consistent practice of recruiting people who raise such negative reactions and bear the burden of the former political arrangements in the common country, because this way these functions will completely lose the support and trust of citizens and citizens, which means disaster for the economic sector as well. Today, as we have said, in such responsible places we need candidates who are not burdened by any events from the past that are characterized by exclusive expertise and exceptional knowledge of their field. Such experts have certainly been educated in Slovenia over the last 20 years and have also gained relevant experience at this time. The Slovenian Prosecutor's Office will certainly face major challenges in the future, and it will also face large and receptive cases, particularly in the field of economic crime. We all know that we must not involve any part of the policy in this area, so we will not support the Government's proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u91	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u92	We hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will propose, in the event of a non-election, a politically sound candidate who will be able to carry out his function professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Joško Godec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u95	Just a moment, Mr. Godec, let's get these time measurement devices in place. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. The position of the DeSUS Group is as follows. Today, the six-year period of action of the current Attorney General, Barbara Brezigar, expires. Months ago, it pointed out that it would not even complete its mandate, mainly because of the hot dispute between the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Summit. We can say that the almost unsustainable situation requires a new head of the Slovenian prosecution. The government has now proposed to the National Assembly Dr. Bell Fisher. However, this proposal has been and is still subject to a number of criticisms. Not exactly critics, according to our group's assessment, but more politically motivated perceptions that have virtually nothing to do with its expertise. Members of the DeSUS will not go into politicisation, as it is evident that Dr Fischer is an excellent legal expert with envious work experience and, as such, suitable to serve as a Constitutional Judge. Moreover, we believe that, in his work and expertise as a constitutional judge and legal expert, he has consistently rejected political evidence, with respect for and the exercise of human rights and freedoms. That is why the DeSUS Members will support Mr Zvonk Fischer's candidacy for the proposed city.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye, everyone! At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support Dr. Zvonk Fischer's candidate, as the current Attorney General's mandate has expired, and in the times and conditions in which we certainly deserve and need to have such a responsible place in the judiciary held in order for matters to take place on an ongoing and, above all, fair, lawful, conscientious and timely basis. Dr. Bell Fisher meets exactly all the formal conditions for appointment. In addition, he has extensive work and management experience both in practice and in academic work. His entire career is linked to the prosecution's work. He has practical experience in the area of prosecution of crimes, he has led the prosecution's organisation at first instance, he is now the Attorney General's Attorney General. At the same time, he is also a legal theorist, an outstanding professor of criminal, procedural and material law at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law and was also a judge of the Constitutional Court. In addition to formal conditions and extensive work experience, Dr Fischer also has personality and moral qualifications to carry out this function, as evidenced by his past and the courage to apply for a successor to the current Attorney General. It was expected that any mandate not bound by the political views of the largest opposition party would be subject to brutal personal discredit and uncompromising attacks. We are also convinced that a number of qualified and interested candidates have not decided to apply for the post of Attorney General because of this, in recent times, distorted political practice of the work of Slovenian politics, which organises an attempt at media murder in every ambitious way, whether it be a judge, a prosecutor who is not a member or at least a friend or does not share the views of one of the parties. According to some, Barbara Brezigar's successor can only be like her. He may be a member of the client board, other qualifications are secondary. Such conduct is certainly extremely damaging to the reputation of justice, its functioning, and, as a result, its legal order. We have not heard any significant serious substantive objections to Dr. Fisher. However, he was exposed to the 1977 case. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, you have heard well, from what is evident to the gentleman, it has been 33 years. I am pleased that, on the Commission's terms of office, the distinguished candidate has applied for the floor himself to attend and explain his view of the time. Clearly, loudly and distinctly, he said that from his personal point of view to us today, the decision to pursue was a mistake and that he felt sorry for her. As a member of Parliament, however, it is a great pleasure that the candidate was under scrutiny because he had been under the scrutiny of his work for 33 years, that there was a single mistake, despite the crowd, probably a few thousand prosecution files that went through his hands. That the candidate was honest and moral and said what you thought of that mistake. This, of course, convinces me, as well as the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, that we are dealing with a candidate who, in addition to formal, professional criteria, flawless and fully meets the moral quality of this function, if, of course, what some have seen is still important and necessary. The candidate will receive the unanimous support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the National Assembly for the new Attorney-General after the end of the term of office of the Attorney-General has been appointed by Dr. Zvonk Fischer. The candidate for Attorney General Zvonko Fischer is a prominent professional in criminal law, if I may say so. From 1973 to 1998, he served as a public prosecutor or public prosecutor at various levels. In 1995, by decision of the Government, he was appointed to the post of Attorney General, where he is also now serving as Attorney General in the Criminal Department. In the meantime, in 1998, the National Assembly elected him as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. He served as a Constitutional Judge for nine years, most of which was the President of the Criminal Chamber. At the same time, in 1998, after his doctorate, he was elected associate professor and later professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. It is clear from everything that Dr. Zvonko Fischer is more than a suitable candidate for the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. He has a rich practical experience of the state prosecutor, as a constitutional judge, in particular in handling constitutional complaints about human rights violations, he has had many opportunities to face the mistakes and weaknesses of criminal justice in Slovenia. However, as a university teacher and an exceptional professor at the Faculty of Law, he has a great responsibility and responsibility, as well as an opportunity to educate and educate future state prosecutors, judges, lawyers and other students who will serve as responsible judges in the field of criminal law in the future. Dr. Zvonko Fischer dealt in practical and theoretical terms with the problems of the internal organisation of state prosecutors. It will also benefit from such experience and knowledge, as we know that the new state prosecutor's law will bring new challenges and challenges, especially in the light of the great need for the state's prosecutions to organise themselves in a manner that will be able to respond as adequately and effectively as possible to the increased economic crime and to the increasing number of cases of the most serious forms of organised crime. Let me mention only illicit drug trafficking and also human trafficking. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support Dr. Bell Fisher's candidacy. Let me add. So far, in Slovenia alone, none of the candidates for the Attorney General's Office have been able to deal with such excellent professional, professional and scientific references. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the appointment of Dr Zvonk Fischer as the new Attorney General. In 1977, Dr. Zvonko Fischer prosecuted three people as a public prosecutor. Two priests and a housewife, due to the laying of the cross in the abyss slain during World War II over Cerkni. In the early 1980 ’ s, Dr. Fisher also prosecuted a minor for so - called verbal delinquency. In view of the fact that the candidate for the Attorney-General has participated in proceedings in which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated by the judgment, we do not believe that the Slovenian Democratic Party is a suitable candidate for the Attorney-General. And what was the story that led to the establishment of the cross, and then to the judgment of Bell Fisher. I think we should know that. In one hour, the Germans killed 47 partisans in Cerknem, while only one soldier fell on their side. After this failure, someone had to be blamed, and an interesting, security intelligence service found so-called traitors among civilians in Cerkne. They arrested 15 people, including 6 women, killed them, and thrown them into the abyss. Later, it turned out that members of the Security Intelligence Service actually killed innocent people, as some of them also cooperated with the Liberation Front. However, nearly 20 years later, the current candidate for Attorney General Zvonko Fischer was prosecuted by two priests and a housewife simply because they had placed a cross at the bottom of the abyss and lit candles in memory of the innocent slain. The Fisher Bell could've made a different decision then, but it's not. Perhaps he too will be rewarded today with the post of Attorney General. All these appointments and decorations, such as Branko Maslesha, Tomaž Ertl, today Zvonko Fischer, are actually a common denominator – a controversial past followed by a rich reward. All of this also shows that the coalition has no critical distance to these extremely ethically controversial proposals, but it is only important that their people be placed in key positions, regardless of whether such actions offend individuals and affect their dignity. At the same time, thank God, it has also proved essential that we think about what kind of people are put in such important and responsible places in justice. In the SDS, we believe that the Slovenian state in such situations needs politically unburdened people who are not politically indoctrinated, who can think freely and decide without burden, without political narrators and background. Above all, it is important that such a function be referred to as people who do not raise any doubt when it comes to respect for human rights, when it comes to respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and when it comes to trust in the rule of law. Mr Šinkovec, state prosecutor, said in this regard and similar appointments, quote: "I do not see any need for such exposed functions in the judiciary to be run by people who have already exercised their functions in the previous system." End of quote. He said a lot or everything with it. It refers to the expertise of the candidate we have before us. It is only reasonable that a person must have the highest professional reference for such a position. In this case, however, the issue of ethics and morality is the main issue. It is inconceivable that there could be a person in the office of the Attorney General who has violated human rights in the past. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we therefore believe that a similar definition should apply to prosecutors, as is the case with judges. The last paragraph of Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act states that, despite the fulfilment of general conditions, judges who have tried or ruled in investigative and judicial proceedings in which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated by judgment may no longer be judges after the end of their term of office. The place where Bell Fisher is running requires an undeterred ethical profile. We should be interested in the question of how some past events relating to the protection and respect of human rights can affect human rights decisions today if we refer to such a situation as a person who has in the past violated these fundamental requirements. Therefore, the two commissions that discussed this appointment raised an important issue of so-called self-reflexion. When a person should recognize for himself that the problem of applying for such an exposed place in justice is someone who already knows that his name in public will trigger different, even very negative, reactions due to past events. Therefore, we will not support and vote against this appointment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The expertise of candidates for the Attorney General, Mr. Zvonk Fisher, is not denied by anyone. Not even the opposition. Even ethical qualities are recognized by people of different profiles, such as Mr Anton Drobnič, Demos' first prosecutor in Slovenia alone, says: "The Fisher Bell is undoubtedly one of the best experts in the prosecution, if not the best. I think he's an extremely honest and responsible man." Once we find that he is professionally qualified, we need to ask ourselves further what his attitude is to the events of 1977 today, what his ethical attitude is at the time when we decide on his candidacy. Is it simply the view that he acted by law at that time, or is his reflection perhaps deeper? Fisher’s bell was criminally persecuted by two priests and a villager for setting up the sign of the cross in memory of the slain. This is an inappropriate act from the point of view of human rights. But no one will think that Bell Fisher, in sufficient party correctness, demanded that they be sent to the Goli Island, let me say that he demanded the lowest possible penalty, three months on probation. Are the concerns about its suitability therefore justified? So. Of course they are, but only one point. To the explicit question of how he sees the events of that day, he replied, "I regret them, this was a mistake." With this reply, he rejected any concerns about his ethical, moral fitness to perform the function for which he was running. That is why we will truly support his candidacy in the Group of Members. For mere politics is a challenge to Zvonko Fischer's candidacy. This cannot be denied by those who have the most to say about excruciating, never suppressed totalitarianism, but are, in fact, the only true successor to former totalitarianism today. In fact, there's still a revolution for them. There are still struggles between ours and yours over the pits of long ago buried, by the injustice of the slain one or the other. Earnest efforts are still under way to capitalise on all good ones of the only deserving and persistent denial that anyone other than merited also a earner. And as the former party liked to wonder what bone counting was all about, today they're asking you what you're reopening. Of course, the main efforts must be focused on activities that will improve the economic situation and social sustainability, but also face the past. It's Fisher's call. That's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. He has the word Anton Anderlich, to prepare Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Franco Yuri has the word to prepare the mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I think my colleague Franci Kek told me everything. I'm just going to add that the warming of history can sometimes be functional. And one party in the National Assembly is constantly proving it. But it always comes back like a boomerang in the end. Because if we went today to find out what someone came from this party or that party, including the Slovenian Democratic Party, was doing in 77, we would probably find a number of surprises. My colleague Eva Irgle, speaking of those times, is probably the only one who has this legitimate right to talk about times when she was actually so small that she couldn't do anything. Probably. Others, too, may have said a number of things about how they led the then repressive authorities. You'd probably even resent Bell Fisher for being too mild to punish. But, of course, I'm joking now, I'm talking a little bit of irony, I'm well understood by my colleagues, and they know that as a cartoonist sometimes I can afford that. The fact is that Zvonko Fischer made it very clear on the home committee and showed his attitude towards the past and also to human vulnerability and human relativity, which allows and warrants changes after so many years of this attitude and views towards a system that was not democratic – we are all aware of that. I hope we're all aware. At least we're aware of that and we don't want to repeat it. The fact that a person who is professionally subdued, who is aware of his own responsibilities, who is in fact prepared and overcomes the critical thought of his own past, is a great novelty in the Slovenian political and edifice. We have not yet experienced such cases in Slovenia in order to discuss the past in a self-critical manner. The past where he was involved himself. It seems to me that this is actually a great added value to the candidate himself. However, if we were to talk about the political side of the prosecution, we could only find that the period of highly politicised prosecution is now ending. And it is hoped that such experience will be no more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Zupevc, get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to give my opinion very briefly. I, too, was at a meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, where Mr Fischer made it very clear that the matter regretted that a mistake had been made and that it was so. Mistakes happen, they can't be changed. But I have to say, when I hear the debate from the other side, it's like listening to another debate that we've heard before. I believe that this is a fitting pattern for you to have a "customer" used on every candidate coming by the Government or the President of the Republic in the National Assembly. Because we listened to the same words at Mr Masleš's candidacy, the words on political indoctrination, and above all the words on the disputed past. I do not think that there is a candidate who would fit the opposite side to meet the high moral criteria of the Slovenian Democratic Party. What is most worrying is that everyone in this Chamber practically recognises Mr Fisher's professional references, admits to him that he has some knowledge, but because of his disputed past, as you call it, he is inappropriate for him to be the first prosecutor in the country. I'll support his candidacy. As it is said, I think it is important that Mr Fisher attends the meeting of the Commission on Mandate and Choice, as it is. He took a stand, confessed to a mistake, apologized for it, and presented his vision of his candidacy. And I think he's suitable for this job. As it is said, I believe that even if we had proposed another candidate, the Slovenian Democratic Party would have found some sort of stain from the past, because there are obviously no flawless ones in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Look, I need to respond to some things. I hear we've got some "guests" we're working on. That's not true. But experts in Zares know each other very well, and they come again and write a good performance, commend him. Media murders by SDS are not possible. Then you must have the media in your power. That's a de facto fact. And as far as the left policy option is concerned, the matter is clear. You've got your own factory papers. Is there anything else independent? Where? That's what they say. Media murders by SDS are not possible because you have to have the media, and we don't have them. That's one thing. Mrs. Brezigareva, member of the Council of Experts. Again, Mr. Saiovic, you have the wrong information, let me update, press F1, maybe it will update something. That's not true. You don't have the right data. Let's move on. Anyone who isn't after the SDS is supposed to pass in this hall. That's not true again. That's not true again. Go take a look at the votes, and you'll see how we voted, and look at yourself, and you'll see how you did in Mr. Shorley's case. He had no stains from the past, except one, a poor man sick — he forgiven Paul Rupar, SDS. You have cited this as the only argument against the candidate for President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Shorley. You didn't have any argument, and the professor, and all of that, that, that, that science, and all of that, and the profession, it all counted, but look, for God's sake, he forgave Paul the Ripper. But these aren't political criteria? These are the real political criteria. Don't talk nonsense about us burying these things in the back. I have already told the committee myself, and I will reiterate here that I see a significant difference between today's candidate and Mr Maslesha. Today's candidate was judging by some of the rules that existed at the time – he could have sued otherwise, but he could not have accused it — and so today he apologized after so many years. He said he regretted it. This is a terrible difference in relation to Mr Maslesha, who acted under the secret rules published in the secret official papers and claimed that everything was legal, even though the man was dead, on the other side of the border, when they then dragged him by his feet or whatever. And the coalition said it was okay. Of course, the coalition said it was okay. How's that okay? It doesn't work together, like the Guntana prisoners, because you've had experience since the fall of 1945. And next time, I'll tell you who you accepted on the same system. But that's what I'm gonna do at that point in the agenda when it's up there. History – it doesn't work together. But who touches history, and that history warms up? Who opened the gun? Coalition. Who opened the archives? Coalition. Who opened Mr. Maslesha? The coalition proposed it. How'd it go with Mr. Shorley, who fell? The coalition threw him out because he forgave Rupar. How's Mr. Fisher? Yeah, the coalition suggested it, because it wasn't us. Well, it doesn't work together. A few more words about independence. For God's sake, get real with these things, for God's sake, it would be time. And one of you is a little gray, just like me and without hair, but still not real! How to speak – look at the tapegram from the year xy back when Mr. Ribičič's candidate was here, or our predecessors listed all the professional qualifications, all the articles he wrote, all the textbooks, professors, everything was written; but they forgot to say that he was SD President, and then he became a Grandmaster for the Constitutional Court. The same thing with Mr. Scholtes is independence. See how many LDS he has run for office, and today he is an independent auditor looking for small fish and catching them — those in drama — but he does not see the pike in the image of Katarina Kresal. It's like I'm running for Rector of a university for which I have all the conditions, and then I sound like I'm an independent candidate. Yeah, not if I'm sitting here with my colleagues from SDS. I'm not, so I'm political! I don't have double criteria. That's what's not responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Get ready for Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I must say that I, like the parliamentary group of candidates, will support it. But in this debate, I will avoid pouring oil on fire, for this does not lead anywhere. The term of office of the Attorney General expired, and she did her work during her six years as she apparently knew and knew best. It's time for a new period. The government has made a call. Only one candidate has applied for the invitation to tender, which fulfils all the formal and personal reasons. Since I think the city of Attorney General in the judiciary is extremely important, I will support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Get Franci Kek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u114	Nicely greeted. The candidate for Attorney General Zvonko Fischer is the best choice and at the same time the right guarantee to restore the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law. We know that before the prosecution, or in front of every prosecutor, there are many daily very difficult tasks. We know that it is the prosecution's job to do the job professionally and that the matter then leads to a judicial solution. There is today a public belief that the police are still doing their job, that there are arrests, investigations, today even one, and then the matter stops. It is also true that those thieves and other offenders are much easier to convict and frame for bars than the ones we are facing today. These are crimes of white collars, economic crime, and this requires much knowledge if we are to detect, prosecute or prevent these matters. That's why we need a good Attorney General; Dr. Zvonko Fischer is, I know him well from the human side. His expertise is spoken of by a professional, and I'm not going to be here today to mention it. The Fisher Bell is also the right choice because it is highly valued in the home environment and this is important. In particular, I would like to stress the following – and I must calm down – in the SDS position here today, I quote, "after the success of the Germans who killed 47 locals". Where do we live?Oh, my God! Was it the success of the Germans to kill so many locals? What am I going to say to the Death of Fascism, freedom for the people here today?Oh, my God! What are the fundamental requirements mentioned here in the statement you make in the National Assembly? Where did we come from, people?Oh, my God! Even Mr. Gorenak. He already knows that the militia commanders probably had an obligation to look after the trustees; that was the system. I'm from that system myself, and everyone here who's a little older, we're from that system, and we've followed some laws, and that's why we're going to kill each other now? The Fisher Bell is a good candidate and will perform the task without the Depala Village backpack and anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u115	The word has magic. Majda Potter. Let's get Ljubo Germich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will decide on an individual who will perform a high individual function in this country's legal system, many of whom we say that it does not work very well in some points. I would therefore expect, in particular, those who are very committed to the good functioning of state institutions whose primary task is to protect the legality and constitutionality of being interested in being appointed to these functions by people who meet the professional criteria. Expertise is the first condition for someone to be able to do difficult work. If he wants to do this work in the judiciary, I think it is also related to moral and ethical standards and the ability to judge matters fairly, to judge the dosage or balance of laws. So I think it's very important to judge by the professional criteria. Therefore, I find it unacceptable to underestimate this by stressing that Zvonko Fischer represents the best possible choice in terms of his professional competence. In order to do this job well, a recent statement was also made by the state's chief prosecutor. So as his longtime associate, he sees no reason why he should express doubts about his work. But that laws, laws, state regulations are changing, and those who are longer in this world, we feel that. And that there may be a point when we judge it from today’s point of view, but we have done it in the past, shows that today’s point of view is a mistake in this level of awareness, and if an individual is also able to acknowledge and regret it, it seems to me that there is no shadow in his decisions and in his views. I myself have attended one of those meetings held by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and I would expect them to be focused on ensuring equality and respect for human rights. Well, there has been an interesting case that when the Commission was called to an urgent meeting to assess the suitability of the candidate from the point of view of human rights, this meeting was not invited to be held by a candidate for the Attorney General, while some others were invited. I had not already disputed the presence of all the other invited ones, but I pointed out that the ordinary misbehavior of such a reverent laugher is Mrs President as well as anyone else, if he asks the candidate for an apology, without giving him the opportunity to speak because he has not even been invited to the meeting. This is what we do in this national assembly with candidates we do not like, with candidates we want to deprive them of human dignity and we want to challenge their expertise. Let me remind you of what has already been quoted today, that the former Attorney General has also said that he respects the expertise, honesty, so to speak, the ethical attitude of Mr Zvonk Fischer. Therefore, I see no reason not to give my support to the proposed choice of this path. However, it seems to me that we do not contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly by sometimes working with inappropriate language tools to fuel our anger and hatred against our opponents or at least those who are not our thinkers. Let those who do so imagine themselves as those who love to teach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Ljubo Germich. Get Vito Rozje ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I rarely engage myself in debates in the human resources decisions of the National Assembly. This time, however, I have also made up my mind from this point of view, given the attitude of the National Assembly towards positive selections, positive appointments of people, and what message the National Assembly gives to people who will be involved in future candidates for responsible state functions. If we so easily overlook all the expertise, if we can easily ignore the individual's career path, which has proved in his professional field both theoretically and with practical work, if we can hear from different parts of the opinion that speak about the rightness, professionality and integrity of the candidate, then in the National Assembly we can easily find reasons for asking such people, our Slovenian people, in a Slovenian society that advocates that they should be based on knowledge, that they should be internationally competitive, let us know clearly that we will quickly find a reason to question such people's moral standards, their ethical standards, their — on the basis of this — may also be biased in those important state bodies that we all want to consider independent of any of their characteristics, if we start with any other political group or non-membership in any other political group. So we want the rule of law, we want these key important functions of the people to whom we can trust. I wish we had a happy hand to choose from here. I am taking Mr Fischer through all the materials that could be reviewed, through all the debate that could be followed and through his holding on the Commission for Mandate-Electorial Affairs, which has clearly presented his views also on the events in which he himself was involved in the past and has taken a critical distance to them. That is why I want to be extremely careful of such people, because when we talk about this individual to Mr Fisher, we are actually talking about all people, how we feel about them. It seems to me that the National Assembly should show a lot more confidence, much more responsibility and confidence in these people, in order to be given the widest, widest possible absolute trust of people, who will be very able to relate to the actions of this body, which, as the Attorney General, will, for example, be able to take over. I hope that the National Assembly will make a majority decision in its support and, of course, with the desire that the State Prosecutor's Office will carry out this task of satisfaction, confidence in the rule of law and objectivity of procedures, if and when they are led. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Get Jože Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we will choose, or not, what will be the majority decision of this national assembly, but only the fourth person who will perform this function in democratic Slovenia and all three who have performed it so far would probably find it difficult to say that they have not been politically profiled or had any historical observations on their CV, if I say so. He is the first state prosecutor, I think, a member of a veteran organisation for which the civil war in this nation has not yet ended. Nevertheless, it must be said that he did his work professionally, well, but it is a veteran organisation for which the civil war is still going on. I am terribly glad that there are no such members of veteran organisations here, because it would be difficult to deal with anything. We probably wouldn't talk at all, but we'd be doing something else in this room. That's right, thank God, some progress in this area. I do not think that the political profile of neither the current nor the previous state prosecutor must be lost in words either. They were both like that. The state prosecutor, whom we will appoint today or not, as the majority decision will be, has no political connotation like his predecessor and his predecessors. If he has ever done something wrong — which one of us is not? I am also about these years as a colleague of Irgle's, and I also think that I can speak of 1977 with the same moral responsibility as anyone else younger. However, I admit that in later years of leaded socialism, I myself had a function. I was the chairman of the pioneer squad at the branch school when I was 10 years old. I'm sorry if this was a mistake, so be it. I think I did my job well, but now I don't know what it was all about. And there would be a lot of people in this room, if not all who performed such or other functions. What are the functions? These are functions that need to be performed in one or another system. The prosecutor's office must be one of these. Dr. Fisher's professional path is long and successful. As far as I'm concerned, he deserves at the end as the top of his professional career to become the Attorney General. When we talk about this bathing in the past and who is the one who is supposed to open it, it should be recalled, Comrade Gorenak, who is the one who is proposing the Attorney General. Yes, the government is proposing it! What about the candidate for President of the Supreme Court? The government. What about the laws? Of course, the government is proposing them. What are you trying to say? That the government must not make laws, that the coalition should not rule, that it should not appoint people to the places where they are needed? That's probably what you'd want, but unfortunately it's not. The coalition is what it is, and you are in the opposition. And that's how these things have been for two and a half years. I'm sorry if you haven't noticed. I don't know why we wouldn't expect anyone to open the past, in your opinion. The decisions we make are made for the future; the people we call them for the future. Mr Fischer's past does not seem important to me for what he will do in the future. However, it seems important to me that he will be a better Attorney General than his predecessors, especially the predecessor. Because in these years we have listened to stories about tycoons that are not locked up in economic crime that are not sanctioned. Who's the one who could do this? The State's Attorney's Office, of course! Who's running it, running it so far? Mrs. Barbara Brezigar. What did she do in this area? She didn't do anything about it. Why? If you ask her, because she doesn't have the support of a minister and a government and so on. What did she do when she had the support of a minister and a government? She just didn't do anything. Of course, how was I supposed to do something then? If I wanted to clear up tycoon stories at the time, I should have camped in front of the Prime Minister's office because that's where these stories were going. Where, though, were the gentlemen whom everyone today would like to see in chains that would like to seize all their resources and so on? Where were the mercs, the Lazko brewery and the works sold? That's where they were selling! That is why the Attorney General was unable to do her job at the time. I hope, heartily, that the future Attorney General of State will be more successful in this work. I wish him well in this new function, so I will support him, if I wish, of course, that he will do his work better than his predecessors. His professional qualifications, his personal integrity to me in this desire, I think, confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word to prepare Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The Council's duty to Members and Members should be to respect human rights and to empathise with respect for human rights. In this country, at least the declaration of respect for human rights has so far been given at the summit of the hierarchy of values in all parties. Today, I see that some of the parties have given up on this. That respect for human rights is no longer at the top of our values, despite the fact that we face it in such a case as the appointment of the Attorney General. From history, we know that from the state prosecutors’ cities in the former Eastern bloc – and Yugoslavia was a solid ideological member of this judicial bloc until the last breath – the most notorious, most horrendous accusations of mounted trials and the most flagrant violations of human rights. We also recall the late zeal of some of the state's prosecutors in the Eastern bloc. Let me mention only the prosecutor of Visinsky. Unfortunately, I found out the last time that my colleague Brultz, a post-graduate humanist, had never heard of anything like this. Unfortunately, that's what our education system gave us. The prosecution's zeal in the Dachav trials is also known. However, we do have a relevant attitude towards the mounted process; to the mounted process in 1977, when human rights and also positive law were largely violated. Look, in 1977, Prosecutor Fisher could, of course, file an indictment against unknown perpetrators of war crime, an untimely war crime for 47 innocent victims. No! No! He wrote an indictment, an indictment for those who wished to worship their memory. He was said to have been exposed. It's true, I'm sure, and he wasn't the only one. In this case, as far as I am aware, the judge to whom it was the duty of the court to judge in this case has been challenged. He stood up to the fact that it was a violation of human rights and he would not judge it. He was fined for it. He had to get out of court. They gave him to a very young judge, they put him under pressure, they abused him, Mr. Shinkovec, who started in time, and he was empatheticly aware that he had been suppressed. Mr Fischer also had the opportunity to regret and, of course, to repent. Not that it was a mistake, I should have said it was a sin, but before he was a candidate for a constitutional judge. The National Assembly of that time recognized this once and rejected the candidacy, and then the party centres sent back the candidacy and, of course, the bloc removed the dictatorship. Look, I'm sure the candidate has a lot of knowledge, we don't deny it, but I should have had this empathy to say, it was a sin we did, what I had to do, and then maybe our relationship today would be different. But when he first ran again for an important function. As far as I know, that's when he didn't do it. At the time, he also had an inappropriate attitude towards legalism, to the Slovenian state, because I remember that the document of October 1991 was shown when he wrote his indictments on paper with the head "Socialist Federal Republic of Slovenia". The state prosecutor, who should be a top legalist, did not recognise Slovenia as independent at the time. And you're legalizing all of this. I'm not surprised, according to independent Slovenia [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in those days a lot of manure fell from coalition species and this continues. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u124	Comrade Jerovšek is always handsome in his statements. I already know Visinski, but I didn't study him. But I studied Makarenko, if you know who it is. You forgot to mention that so many years ago, right at the time, Tito died — and maybe that's a bad thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor, procedurally. [[...]] Are we stopping the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, on what basis did Mr Brulc get the floor? There is no time for discussion, he has exhausted the debate, there is no basis for a replica. What was that? Will you conduct the meeting as it is for the chairman of the session, or will it be conducted as it is written in the blue book you proposed in 2002 to receive the then State Assembly? I suggest you conduct the meeting as it is under the rules of procedure. But if Mr Brulc said his thoughts at the time, and said them, there is no need for him to get some additional time for any discussion, he has nowhere to be allocated. I'd like to ask you to conduct this meeting as a business norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In the future, as before, I will also conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Mirko Brulc discussed, Mr Jože Jerovšek named and referred to his debate, so he applied for the replica and got it. This is in accordance with the rules of procedure and the usual way of working, you know well that you have already noticed it, and therefore there is no reason for any objection. He's got the word. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Get Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you want to have a replica, tell me, I'll name you. We have referred to the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and here we have considered Mr Fischer's candidacy. I wouldn't talk about it because it's familiar and you have all the records we've talked about, what we've done, and now it's a story that's gone by. But since you have some full-mouthed human rights, I've decided to make a brief summary of this commission and, if necessary, if we don't have a full mouth of human rights. Mr Jože Tanko, the candidate of the parliamentary group; Borut Pahor, the President of the Government; Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman; Gašper Rudolf, the retired priest; Aleš Rupnik, the dean of the champagne and the novogoric dean; Andrej Saj, the representative of the Slovenian Bishop's Conference; Dr. Lovro Šturm, the former Constitutional Judge; Dr. Janez Čebulj, Mr. Silvij Šinkovec, the Chief Prosecutor of State and the former judge; Dr. Ivan Štuhec, the theologian. We have sent in knowledge to the Council of State, the Government, the College of the President of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General, the Legal and Legal Service, the Public Relations Service. And where is the one we talked about and discussed? Nowhere! This gentleman is nowhere to be found. I hope you'll wake up and stop talking about human rights at least at this point in the agenda. I didn't name him because I don't want him to have a replica. I'm asking you so nicely to be correct. At this meeting I also, as the new Vice-President of this Commission, proposed to the President of the Commission that we rename the Commission. It is now called the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the last part and the same opportunities will be eliminated, because we have not given Mr Fischer the same opportunity. None of my colleagues did that. Is any of you the chairman of this commission? It's not. So that's what you did. So much for spreading around human rights. But I didn't mean to, I really didn't. Now it is just about Mr Fisher, who I do not want to judge and talk about his work, but I have just printed his articles and other works: original scientific articles, transparent scientific articles, short contributions, professional articles and so on. It's all 250. You've been through this yourself. Print it. As his work is judged, you can also read it, and my trifle does not dare to judge his work, but anyone else should judge it according to his judgment. But most of all, you convinced me on the petitions committee, the same rights – I will no longer pronounce the other one because it makes no sense – that he really is a candidate. Unfortunately, we have been forced to prepare the Inquisition, condemn it, destroy it, and report to the public that it is inappropriate for the Attorney General. It was one very very, very, very inappropriate gesture, and I hope you will no longer serve such things. I will vote for Mr Fisher. I'm sure he's a suitable candidate. And one of you said that, and that was Mr. Vinko Gorenak: "Today's candidate was judging by the regulations of the day." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak's replica, correcting the misstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u130	Absolutely wrong, because you've got me all wrong. The regulations of the day also said - what? They also said that incitement to hatred of socialism and so forth was criminal, even as the regulations of that time said. But nowhere did the regulations say that lighting a candle was a crime. In this context, you have me completely misunderstood. So the candidate could have made the same decision as my colleagues explained. That's what you call it. It's completely wrong. But Mr. Rozjej used to say something completely different, so it makes no sense for him to replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has Ivan Grill, to prepare Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In this mandate, we are witnessing that history likes to repeat itself and is now repeating itself in the time of the former Yugoslavia, or the time of the dictatorship of socialism. This coalition now, in fact, takes into account the first principle when it comes to the fact that every candidate had to fulfil moral and political qualities. That was the priority, that emergency condition, and all the expertise that followed was more or less of a side effect — including that candidate. I'm sure he can't be copied, politically, I believe that. This was also the criterion on which he was appointed to the Government for approval and, of course, on this basis, the coalition will also vote. That's the fact. It's about expertise. See, if there really was just a number of articles in that criterion, then go to another system to type the name and surname of Cobis and whoever has the most articles, then make the proposal. But Vinko Gorenak will surely be ahead of a number of your suggestions. Why is trust in the justice system or even in the rule of law so low? It is precisely because of such personnel as the current coalition expresses or executes. You have appointed the President of the Supreme Court a person of whom we have discussed here a great deal and who could be attributed to him anything before moral quality. That you put a man in charge of the police, you changed the law. You've even gone to change the law. There's a similar story here. To speak now of Mr Fisher’s regret or recognition of a 1977 error on the committee or on the committee that all that was done at that time could be forgotten, or that it made him clean as a tear. That's not true! At that time, it was his jurisdiction and also his ability to depart from that case and not to carry out that procedure if he really had an honest quality or even respect for human rights. Unfortunately, he didn't have it. That at the time the judge who had been assigned this case had given up, he did not want to deal with it, that was earlier said here by colleague Jerovšek – he was then sanctioned, this case was taken over by another, a young judge who also regretted the case – shows more than enough about this case. If Mr Fisher had truly regretted this event – I believe that his decision could have been the same as it was then – he should have been aware that certain matters with the word "forgive" or "I regret" could not be deleted or forgotten. If this statement were truly sincere, I would expect that, if not earlier, and when it has even been disputed, it has been highlighted that it has also withdrawn from this candidacy. Then that would be some kind of honesty that you might believe. But he did not do so, and his statement of regret cannot be so sincere. Now, let's talk about it. Much is said by the fact that only Mr Fisher has applied for this invitation. Is it true that the only person who is part of such an important and challenging task? I'm sure you don't, and so do you. Because it was already politically agreed in the background that he too is part of that team that will push forward to have an important part of the branch of power under his control, that is the political left and that was the reason for himself to apply. But all those with references and knowledge didn't want to expose themselves or sign up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me remind the speaker that we have already met the situation in the past when he applied, read it, applied for the positions of the Attorney General only one candidate, and then, as I recall, we did not have much problems. But the fact is, you really manage to pick up every single person who comes here as a candidate or candidate for some high function in our system doesn't come from your political circles. But also Dr. Fisher, as far as I know, doesn't come from any other political logo, so I don't think these eyewitnesses are entirely wrong from this point of view. It is true, however, that Mr Zvonko Fischer was not a justice minister in the Bajuk government. It is true that he did not run for President of the Republic with the support of the SDS, did not run for office on the SDS list as an MP, an MP in the National Assembly, and, as my colleague Brulc has already said, does not have a Depala village backpack, nor does he have anything else. Among other things, though, there is something else that I have seen when reading or reviewing his extensive bibliography. He also has a sense of good humor, a spirit, an espri, as we say. Those who are familiar with everything, criminal law, the role of judges, what the prosecutor can and cannot do, what is not only a mistake, but is a sin, and so on and so forth, let me read just the title of one of Dr. Fischer's discussion papers, which says, "Love reading the Penal Code is not yet a criminal law." There's a lot more to this height, but it probably doesn't make sense either. That Dr. Fisher actually overcomes this broad spirit, he will have the opportunity to demonstrate himself today when he listens to this inexorable debate in the National Assembly, when some of you clearly acknowledge his moral inadequacy. I had hoped that this expression had been completed a long time ago, and I also hoped that in this independent Slovenia we would not judge people according to this criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Just get ready, Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u136	A few months ago, in this mandate, you rejected the European resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, although it was also confirmed at the level of the European Union in the European Parliament by the votes of those Members and Members coming from your parties – that is, one face for the European Union and one face for home. In fact, by voting you have rejected European values, and today you are materialising this decision. You materialize it at the expense of Slovenian development. The whole laugh you've given my colleagues is that you've had a bad conscience. Bad news is a bad thing, isn't it, dear colleagues? Why am I talking about this? In resolutions 1096, the European Union and the Council of Europe, resolutions on European consciousness and totalitarianism and the latest, the Council of Europe resolution on totalitarianism, have made it very clear what their principles are, what European policy is, what European values are. Among other things, they made it very clear that it should not be placed in key places in the justice of people who were in the previous totalitarian regime, but whatever it was, whatever it was, because they were all the same, violated, proved to be human rights. And some of you have said today that you have not invited the gentleman we are talking about today to one of the meetings and therefore have nothing to say about it. What should we ask him? There are records that he himself signed, records that he persecuted a minor because of a verbal delinquency. Is this a violation of human rights from today's point of view of democratic law, from the point of view of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen? Yes! It's a clear violation of human rights. Do I have anything to say about this? We don't, it's an undeniable fact! Second case. Or did he cooperate with his signature in a procedure in which three people were merely because they pentfully marked some grave of the illegally murdered, then convicted, persecuted, and we know that he is a fifth, a relationship to the dead, what separates man from beast. Is his signature there? Yes! So he participated in something that, in terms of European values, is clearly a violation of human rights. Yes, and that's an undeniable fact. There is no need to establish this; there is no need to identify any contrary facts. This is a fact and therefore is the fact that this proposal is shameful; it is shameful for the Government it gives and for you, which you are defending because it is directed directly at the European Union. The worst part of this is also against the development of the country of Slovenia, as you add another addition to the appearance of exoso, another stain on the reputation of Slovenia, against all the normal countries of the European Union, against all the democratic countries of the world and against all those who would like to participate economically with Slovenia. In order to divert attention from your economic failure, because that is why you are doing this, you will cause further deterioration of the potential for the development of Slovenia. For a country that does not respect the values of the European Union, which violates the fundamental principles on which the European Union was founded and which was created at the fall of the Berlin Wall, that country is likely to be given the opportunity to avoid investors; that those who wish to cooperate economically with that country will avoid it far away, because they will not be convinced that their values are respected, that their money, their work, their business, their business objective in that country will be protected and respected. As a result, you are further reducing the development potential for Slovenia by doing so. What is worst about this, ladies and gentlemen, is not only that this is aimed at fundamental European values, even against acts of the European Union, but also against the development of the country of Slovenia. This proposal is therefore unacceptable. That's why your laugh and that yawning is just, my respectable colleague, so sad, which says you care little about citizens, citizens, for the development of Slovenia, that you are only interested in your political goal and your political recruitment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Time's up. Only Bevk has the word. Get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Because of some historical inaccuracies in the introduction of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to say a few words. On January 27, 1944, in the German attack of the infamous Heine battalion at the 6th party course in Cerkne, not only did the partisans fall. Among the 47 killed were mostly unarmed classmates and party course courses. From the book Tragedy in Cerkne in winter 1944, I quote, "in total 24 participants in the 6th course fell, two participants in the 5th course, 9 members of school protection and 13 others, mostly members of the city's command, some partisans and locals". These were the victims of the infamous German battalion Heine. For most of these young students and courses, aged about 20, with Primorska, this was the first school in Slovenian mother tongue, and so tragically ended for them. After the German attack, the security intelligence service justified 15 locals, in memory of whom the cross was placed at Lajša in the 1970s at the Cerkljan Summit. Tragedy in the Cerkne winter of 1944 is still very much alive among the natives. Memorials are held each year, in January and June. January in Brc, June in Lajsha. Both judges in this case, or both lawyers, the judge and the prosecutor in this case, apologized to the Slovenian public for this. At the Cerkne event five years ago, where representatives of local and then state authorities also participated, the President of the Association of Fighters, Dr. Janez Stanovnik, also apologized on behalf of the Union of Fighters for 15 authorised locals. No one apologized for the German attack. In 1981, I myself wrote for an article in the Naval Diary, where I described this tragedy, that the Security Intelligence Service had served dragon penalties. During the debate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Dr Fischer's candidate claimed that the proceedings were a mistake in the 1970s when he was supposed to prosecute persons who put the cross in a place where they were buried out of court, and that it would have been better if it had never been. Even in the court proceedings led by Judge Šinkovec, there have been errors, as the Supreme Court found in 1995 and, as Fischer says, repairs within the scope of the possibility, I quote, "he cannot undo the damage, but he can make some satisfaction". After all, the judge in this case is now acting as the Attorney General. In view of the references presented in this debate, both at the Mandate-Election Commission and at the meeting of the National Assembly, I will support Mr Fischer's candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. He's got a word for Jože Tanko, so Dusan Kumer can get ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This time we are reunited with the realization of the so-called Pahor's human resources paradigm, when the people of the past are appointed to key positions in the state administration in justice. Minister Zalar, who advocated a government staff proposal, said he was proposing a brilliant career candidate. We can ask ourselves how you can achieve a brilliant career. By shutting down the key data, the key stains on the candidate's biographies? In this particular case, it was silenced in the staff proposal in this human resources paradigm of the Government that Zvonko Fischer was the prosecutor for initiating proceedings against the three persons who placed a memorial mark at the pit of the extrajudicially killed and lit candles there. It would be interesting to know which law in the present country ordered that it should be against persons who, 33 years after the execution of the massacre, had been reminded to make a memorial mark or that 33 years later a criminal procedure had been instituted. This was a form of pressure and forced that similar actions did not take place in other locations where they were mass-killed, that it was prevented, that, according to the week and the current majority orientation of citizens, the cross would be placed because it went mostly, or generally, or entirely for people with Christian ethos, and that candles would be lit. I think that the country should actually stimulate and encourage those memorial acts to take place, but not that 33 years after this beastly act took place and reeks of it today, it has done any right thing or done any satisfaction to those who have had it happen to their families. Even more! 33 years after this proceedings have been initiated, the same person who was the prosecutor in this case, proposed for the highest position in the field of prosecution, is the Attorney General. Interestingly, these symbolic 33 years are repeated in this career. I wonder, in fact, on what basis and why you're talking about proposing a man with a brilliant career. In this case, I believe that there are double criteria for some of the human resources proposals relating to properly trained, professional, ethical persons to be sufficient for their disqualification, and for other human rights and human dignity proposals even the worst violations are not the reason that this procedure would not be initiated in order to eliminate the candidate with such a past. In this mandate, we are very much faced with such double criteria and it is certainly difficult to establish that the proposals of this government's staff paradigm are only professional, that these are suggestions that are ethical, that these are proposals that are without stains, which have brilliant careers. They're not! In some other cases, including other applicants, we also face similar issues in the proposals of the President of the Republic. That is said, what would be crucial, and although publicly known, is omitted and emphasized only what belongs in the context of your human resources paradigm. It is certainly difficult to say here that it is a career without fault, without blemish, that it is a human resources proposal that is unprecedented in this area. I am sure that, if it were to be desired and tried, it would be possible to find better human resources solutions, and in general solutions that would not share, irritate and in some way provoke aversion to those who have different views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps sometimes it might be better to hold back a little while and take a breath before we pass judgment on people I believe most of you sitting in here also know and give a very harsh judgment that a man is 33 years ago as a prosecutor committed a beastly act. This is not such a simple judgment of value and not least an accusation. And I could count it. That is why I think that this is an extremely unfair and, at times, also a primitive debate and an evaluation of people, I will once again stress which most of us have never met directly in their work or in direct communication in their lives. Therefore, I also find the incorrect questions that some of you have been asking yourself today, that there is a tremendous resistance to this candidacy in public. But who in public has created this severe opposition in this public against this candidacy? You who speak in this way, as I mentioned earlier. Dr. Fisher meets all the conditions. Moreover, it has proved, despite your moral and political criteria, to be required of the candidates proposed by this government or by the President of the country, a very moral and ethical attitude when it came to the Mandate- volitional Commission and explained the things that have weighed you so much. With this meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission, I must now express my feelings. When Mr Fisher entered the hall and sat in the back, some who spoke out loud then held back a little, took a breath and changed the rhetoric a little. But when Mr Fisher, Dr Fisher, apologized for the concrete action and said that a mistake had been made, they even used rhetorical sentences — to use such a significant sentence of forgiveness from history and so on not to talk about it. But since the devil is always in the details and coincidences, the anecdotes, the real anecdotes of the past are very interesting. Many of you today spoke about the system of 1977, the laws that were in force at the time. But look at the coincidence and the details! You say that Dr. Fisher did a beastly act in 1977, and your President Janez Janša entered the Communist Union in 1977 to strengthen our personal species, which we supported in this system and these laws. Do you see in the details when we go back like this, and we think about political values and evaluate people who are not supposed to have a past. Look, your group leader today said, "We should choose people without the past in these places." Who? But Martians? Who? Then who should we choose, people without a past? Where are these people without a past? Each of us has a past, and you too have, and many of you may have, according to your criteria, a disputed past, including those sitting in this hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect indication. If I find out it's a controversy, I'll take the MP's opportunity to speak. Please, replica mag. Branko Grimes, fix the wrong entry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u144	Your Honor! A colleague just said four times that it was said that we were saying it was a beast act. I said the pieta is the value of what separates man from beast. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u145	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u146	So the pieta is what separates man from beast, gentlemen and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u148	It's also in the textbooks of ethics, and it would be good for them to read these things as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u150	That all of us would [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Zvonko Fischer as Attorney General for six years. Procedural? An explanation of the voice? Do you want to do it on a case-by-case basis? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members, I request a 20-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u153	You are, of course, entitled to this break under the Rules of Procedure, but before that, we will have to explain to the vote, first of all the groups sent. Does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their voice? Slovenian National Party. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! In the Slovenian National Party, we decide on the basis of arguments and open up expertise which cannot be disputed to the candidate. In short, the work of the Attorney General requires a strong and professional man, to which the candidate also convinced us in his panel discussion. In the Slovenian National Party, we are also not burdened by who is the proposer. In any case, so far it has not been possible to find someone who would not at least be a customer sympathizer. As I have already said, professionalism prevails, so we will support the candidate in the Slovenian National Party as appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u156	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the SDS Group, we deeply regret that 20 years after Slovenia's independence, 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, an official proposal can emerge which so drastically deviates from European values. Europe has clearly defined its values. It's whether we respect them or not. Those who respect them will certainly also be respected by Europe and by potential investors. Respect for the values of the European Union is directly linked to the possibility and the speed of development of each country. This may reveal the core of the story why the development of Slovenia at a time when all neighbouring countries have come out of the crisis and are rapidly developing, are still stagnant or are even declining in many macroeconomic indicators. Simply because we are led by a coalition that does not respect European values. Unfortunately, the fact is that when we talk about human rights, some still think that respect for human rights must take into account some aspect of time. But human rights, ladies and gentlemen, are universal. It is a question of whether we respect them or not, whether we have respected them in the past or not. And everyone had a choice. If this logic were to be taken into account in order to take into account the spirit of time, then everyone, however, would still be justified, the proceedings against the Nazis would not have taken place at all. They had all these things legally settled. For this reason, the European Union, Europe and the entire democratic world have long clearly clarified this problem and has identified themselves as the universality of human rights, the universality of fundamental rights and freedoms, which are always and everywhere and for all people, regardless of the time and the political regime, the same. Today we do not decide whether to deprive anyone of their right, we decide what message we will give to the Slovenian public, our youth and the European Union and all those who wish to participate politically and businessly with Slovenia. The decision proposed by the Government is completely flawed and wrong in the deep conviction of the SDS, which is clearly drasticly contrary to European values. For this reason, this is a politically bad decision and, above all, it is an anti-development decision; another in a long line, including street names by dictators, which include awarding medals to former chiefs of the secret political police of the Udba and more. In order to turn attention away from the economic failure of the coalition, the coalition is taking the ideological steps that are further reducing Slovenia's development potential.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Any of the other MPs? I guess not. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? I guess not. Dara Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support Dr. Bell Fisher's candidacy. Of course, I have also looked at this thing from this point of view, which was exposed here today in relation to some of the procedures initiated by the Prosecutor in the previous system. I have also considered this from this point of view because I too have come from a situation where I have had the opportunity to experience these things in my family. But let me tell you something. Dr. Zvonko Fischer then demanded the lowest possible penalty, he was obliged to initiate this procedure under the laws of the day, if not for him, would have been taken into account by the Chief Public Prosecutor instead. Very rude, it is now unacceptable for him to report, after he was put into the situation that he even had to speak of this act as a mistake before the Mandate- volitional Commission. Of course, we can only count it as a plus. But when we talk about European values, let me say it. The European values are also that no one has the right to comply with and to refer to these resolutions, which have been mentioned here, when it itself causes human rights violations. And the level of debate here today, the hate speech we have witnessed to him, that is something that, of course, belongs to this category, to which all these resolutions referred. Mr. Fisher, I'm going to support you because I'm sure he's an excellent candidate for the Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u159	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I regret that I will not be able to support the proposed candidacy, and this is not an ad hominem vote, but a vote on the protection of fundamental human rights and the symbolic action required by this national assembly. For today the candidacy was justified by this, by the leader of one parliamentary group, to fulfil moral and political qualities. That's the syntagma and the sign that Uda gave a certificate for candidates for judges and prosecutors, exactly the same. Unfortunately, it's very frightening what we're getting ready for. The father of the Slovenian state, her 20th anniversary, will be celebrated in one month, Dr Jože Pučnik, succeeded with the amendment of the Colonel, which assumes that those who have tried and violated human rights cannot run for such important places. You're violating that provision. Protect Mr Fischer from being in this position to have this on him against Europe, to be confirmed in contravention of the Colonel's amendment! Protect Mr. Fisher! Do what statesmanship, what values, what symbolism requires of you. Once again, this is not an ad hominim against Fisher, he is an excellent expert, but you have to have values, you have to face this people you represent, because otherwise this tree will fall into the chasm that we are now facing by this coalition, and it will be accelerated. Then it'll get worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We're done explaining the voice. I'm adjourning the session, which we'll resume at 4:00. We'll continue the meeting at 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u162	Colleagues and fellow Members! We continue the adjourned session and the 27th point. We are in the process of examining the Government's proposal for the appointment of the Attorney General before the vote. The SDS delegation requested a 20-minute recess. Does the leader of the parliamentary group want to speak? Please, Joze Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The parliamentary group of the proposal to appoint Dr. Zvonk Fischer as Attorney General will not support the fact that he participated in his career and unjustifiably initiated proceedings against persons who, at the site where the beastly murdered persons were, placed a memorial mark and probably also lit a candle. No legislation ordered that at the time. It's probably not a violation of public order or peace, it's not a violation of anyone's dignity. The procedure was initiated solely for the purpose of securing evidence and, in particular, to prevent similar acts, petty acts at other locations. These acts or those criminal proceedings were also triggered by fear of humans for many years after extrajudicial killings were carried out. This probably did not belong in any practice, not democratically or in any other way, and is certainly contrary to all conventions. Not only will the Group not support this proposal or vote against it, but we will not take the oath of the candidate, which it is likely to make after the election for the Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I ask Dr. Bell Fisher, Attorney General, to swear in front of the National Assembly. Please, Dr. Bell Fisher, swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u165	I swear to protect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and to carry out my work conscientiously, under the Constitution and laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u166	On behalf of the National Assembly, I congratulate you and wish you a successful job. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u167	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Minister of Justice for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 62b, paragraph 11, the Minister of Justice, Aleš Zalar, in conjunction with Article 62a, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Courts of Justice, proposed that he appoint a mag as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Nino Betetto, supreme judge at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing mag as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Nina Betetto, Supreme Court Judge. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the Court of Justice for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted three proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office, namely, the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Brežice and Novi mesto and the District Court in the Novi Mesto District Court. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Valeria Ivanetič Karlič to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Novi mesto. We vote, the vote is on. There are 75 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Sana Zevnik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Brežice. We vote, the vote is on. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of Jerica Grden to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court in Novi Gradno. We vote, the vote is on. There are 76 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance presented the Decision appointing the Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia to the National Assembly in agreement. The Assembly shall be held at the 8th session of the 5th meeting. 4. 2011 adopted the decision to appoint the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia for a period of four years Sam Fakin. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as a mother of the working group and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, shall be given by Joško Godec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. The position of the DeSUS Group is as follows. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusion that Mr Sam Fakin is appointed Director General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. Mr Fakin fulfils all the formal conditions for the occupation of this job, and at the same time, according to our assessment, one of the most famous candidates is the operation of the institution, since it has been running since April 2007. Mr Fakin also received support from the Management Board of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Mr Fakin, when presenting the work programme for the next four years, announced, inter alia, that in the health insurance system, there would be an incentive for improvements and a driving force for development from ideas to implementation. He also announced participation in the creation of new health legislation, which, of course, is what we expect in the DeSUS Group. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome his forecast that health service providers will be required to improve the organisation of work in order to shorten the waiting time before outpatients for a maximum of 20 minutes, so he will require a higher level of information, integration of institutions, control of costs and quality. Mr Fakin intends to change the management of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the future. This will require more productivity, innovation and learning of emotional intelligence. It also intends to reorganise the service of the institution in order to be effective and rational and well-adopted to the parties. It also intends to ensure that workers in the institution are more evenly burdened and that their professional potential is effectively exploited. We also consider these predictions in the DeSUS Group as good, so, as has already been said, we will also support the proposal for its appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia voted in favour of the Director-General of the Institute and proposed to the National Assembly in agreement with the Director-General of the Institute. We have dedicated our support to Mr Fakin at the LDS Chamber four years ago when we examined his professional competences, and as at that time, of course, there is an appropriate candidate for these conditions today. It is also followed by a four-year period of management of the institution, which has shown that Mr Fakin successfully led this institution during this four-year period, as the pressure was to re-enter red numbers within the institution is extremely large, and after four years we can see that the institution is doing well, although with a certain deficit, which is replaced by past years' savings. Mr Fakin and I also had a personal discussion with the LDS Club at the LDS, where we wanted to get to know in detail and again how, after four years, he sees the management of this institution, in particular by showing and saying how he sees the role of the institution in a different sense, i.e. in the sense of a proactive actor in ensuring the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights. There have been a lot of concerns from the Member Club about the fact that, of course, the general agreement and, somehow, the extension of some past agreements is not the right form as the institution should have done. Therefore, we have also somehow found a common point in our views that the institution will become a proactive health service provider to the satisfaction of healthcare users, i.e. those who also pay contributions to the labelling of compulsory health insurance rights. In this respect, we are looking forward to this, and somehow the candidate has also confirmed to us in the discussion that, within the framework of their competence as carriers and providers of compulsory health insurance, they will actively monitor the needs of the population on the one hand and, on the other hand, effectively care as pro-active initiators in changing accounting models. In the LDS, we do not understand that different health services in different health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia can be provided for different prices, for different costs, because the distinction between primary, secondary and tertiary levels must be completely transparent, but not that some tertiary services are still treated as such over the years, and we already know that they can be used as a routine at the primary or secondary level. The positive nature of the financial situation in the health treasury also conditioned that certain rights and obligations were transferred from compulsory health insurance to voluntary health insurance, resulting in an increase in the premiums of voluntary supplementary health insurance. Of course, this will not be acceptable to the parliamentary club in the future, so we have also paid a great deal of attention to the organisation of services within the insurance undertaking as Director-General and to the fact that much attention will also be paid to the supervision of the use of resources in different health institutions. We expect Mr Fakin to carry out what has been said, as he has also presented in his programme, and to participate actively in the preparation of such necessary reforms as are necessary in the context of health legislation. Due to all these positive signals, which Mr Fakin devotes to the further development of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, we will support it in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u172	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In early April, only Fakin at the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia was reconfirmed as director of this institution. This fact testifies to its functioning over the past four years and thus confirms the appropriateness of the re-candidature. At present, however, the situation in Slovenia is completely different, as it was four years ago, which is also evident in the operation of this institution. The unfavourable demographic picture on the one hand and economic stagnation on the other offer many challenges that will need to be addressed in the future. If we introduce further health reform into the equation, it is clear that it took a lot of courage, as well as confidence in our own knowledge and in our own co-workers, to re-candidate. Therefore, it is precisely the experience of Mr Fakin in the operation of the institution that is justified in favour of the Social Democrats' Group's new mandate. We are convinced that in these turbulent times experience is indeed needed for the operation of the institution, so we hope and also believe that Mr Fakin will be able to take advantage of them when re-appointed. However, the need for positive cooperation with all health stakeholders, including the Ministry of Health, and support for the implementation of the system that is urgently needed for reconstruction should be borne in mind. Once again, in the Group of Social Democrats, we see no reason not to confirm Mr Fakin's second term because of the decision of the Assembly of the Institute and thus the users of the services, but also because of the candidate's presentation in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me say in the introduction that we will not support the candidate. The Human Resources Games have caused the new director of the health insurance company to be elected after the expiry of the old director's term of office. We are of the opinion that, at least in planning the work of the National Assembly, this item could be placed on the agenda in time and decided on time for the candidate, because the term of office for the Director expired in April. Interestingly, Dr. Marusič, who came from the SD quota, who was also a consultant to the Director General of Health Insurance, Fakina, who, of course, is also a candidate, was not satisfied with the selection of Fakin, and he stated the following: "In the course of the election of the leading or first man, the first person of the health insurance company for the next four years, I stressed that I would like a director who would run medically and efficiently, to finally reorganise the Health Insurance Office and to introduce a consistent and effective control over the use of public funds in the delivery of health services." From this statement, there is dissatisfaction. In order to make it clear that the Health Insurance Office is operating inconveniently and ineffectively and that there are no appropriate mechanisms in the institution to control the use of public funds collected. This is a problem with small or substantially smaller amounts, but only at 2.4 billion euros, as they are collected in this health treasury. This amount is equal to a quarter of the national budget and is greater than that of any minister of that government. It is also incomprehensible that the coalition tolerates inefficiencies and inefficiencies, i.e. waste, although, on the other hand, without a proper sense of interference with retirement, threatens with intervention law, introduces additional taxation, and is also looking for easy means to recapitalise banks or, in other words, to cover bad decisions and losses of banks without anyone answering. Representatives of the government voted against Fakin at the institutions of the institution. However, the Coalition in the National Assembly unanimously supported the candidate without anyone stating any valid reason why the coalition in the National Assembly, which is supposed to support government decisions, voted in a different way from the Government's. The reasons were not explained and the concerns remain that something important had to happen during this period of time that such a transformation had taken place in the coalition. Perhaps lobbyists or background personalities have played an important role and are said to share more domestically in public money. It is clear, however, that no technological and human resources have been used to finance quotas or headquarters, so that we have a wide range of waiting periods after unnecessary waiting periods, so that there is not even a nearly regulated drug price policy, that comparable services are not properly evaluated at different levels of institutions and many other matters. Since it is not possible to expect significant substantive changes without a change of staff, it is not possible to talk about the high expectations of this human resources solution that we have before us, so we will also vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Group of Members, we did have a long conversation with candidate Mr Fakin and then decided to support his candidacy. We will support it, but not without any concerns that have also been raised, in particular with regard to the need for a more active approach to the price policy of medicines and also to the debt arising from the visa of insurance undertakings, which is systematically and perhaps unduly covered by the health insurance. In short, the attitude towards insurance companies will also be crucial to the successful policy of the institution. In doing so, we are aware that we are ahead of an important step, that is, before a health reform, or before a new health law that does not need a humane experiment, but mainly requires experience and precisely for these non-political pillars, such as the Health Insurance Office, a certain continuity. Mr Fakin was elected in the previous term, and I believe that if the coalition opposed him today, he would have received the full support of the opposition. Today, we're thinking unscrupulously. Mr Fakin is not a member of any party, is not bound to any party, is a person who works professionally in an area where we do not see room for political bargaining or political debate. This is an important issue of the functioning of health insurance, and it has been the most important fact for us that it has been supported by the Assembly of the Institute and that it has been caught and found good communication with the Government, including the Minister of Health, which is a prerequisite for the normal functioning of this important system. We are aware that today we are voting and choosing a person who will be at the head of an important institution. This institution is in the public interest, in the interest of all our citizens and citizens. We are aware that only a person who is not an expression of some political interests will be able to lead this institution in a satisfactory manner. We hope that Mr Fakin will lead him in this way, we will pay attention, we will also draw attention to possible anomalies and possible deviations from our expectations. Once again, I stress that we expect a more active attitude, particularly towards the role of insurance companies and to all the rights of citizens and citizens with regard to health. This is how the Group of Members will truly support this candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So let's be clear, not as my predecessor earlier said the opposition would object to the appointment. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will unanimously, with all its colleagues present, support or support the decision, give its consent to the appointment of Mr Sam Fakin as Director General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. In the Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the need for reforms in pension legislation, in the field of labour law and in the field of health legislation, including in the field of healthcare, but this is what the Government and the National Assembly are called for, particularly to the greatest extent. However, certain measures will certainly have to be taken in the future in the field of the health treasury or the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. We estimate that Mr Only Fakin is a good expert and that in these years, when he has performed this function, he has also shown this to be a good knowledgeer of both the health system and the medical treasury. The Assembly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance appointed it, not unanimously – that is, according to information, some objected to this appointment, especially by representatives of the real government, but also by information we have, with the Government or with the Ministry of some disagreements in this earlier period from appointment to today. In the parliamentary group, we have interviewed the current Director-General or candidate for a new four-year period, and I must say that after this interview we have further strengthened ourselves that the candidate is fit to carry out this certainly responsible task. So there is definitely a lot of money flowing in this place, and that is why this task, of course, is very responsible and concerns literally every citizen and every citizen. As stated in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will give our consent to the appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Ljubo Germich. [[He doesn't want to discuss it.]] I note that there are no more reported debaters, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to appoint Sam Fakin as Director General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 53 votes to 20. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Management and Electoral Group for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u180	Your Honor! Of course, these points would not be before us today if the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant had not been in extremely unwelcome circumstances in the last period; the circumstances in which the Director of the Fund, who was, by the way, the personal choice of Minister Radiceva, Minister of Economy, began to deal with the funds of the Fund on its own and unconstitutional terms. The Fund's assets were deposited in the internal bonds of companies without recognised international ratings and this increased the exposure of the nuclear decommissioning fund to its upcoming obligations. Mr Max Lavrinc, who had previously been a member of the Fund's Supervisory Board and had resigned, irrevocably resigned, stated that this business and this investment adventure are precisely the cause of the current duties of the Fund's Director. The Director of the Fund was then also replaced by another acting officer. One fact that is very important should be highlighted. The Statute and the Law provide that the Director shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Management Board of the Fund. In this particular case, Mrs Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc was appointed without a proposal from the Management Board and was the personal choice of the Minister of Economy of Radiceva. Ms Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc's proposal for the performance of her duties has not been forwarded to the Government by the Management Board and, as a result, complications have arisen. That this derogation, which we are replacing with new names today, is not alone, is also a testimony to the next point and therefore a little bit more about the content at that time. We will not oppose the proposal in the parliamentary group, but we believe that there is room at the time of the resignation of the next member of the Supervisory Committee to listen to the opposition's proposals at the next round, which is likely to be at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. There's a word for Jože Tanko. [[He won't discuss it.]] Therefore, I note that the panellists are not present and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Brigita Stopar as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We vote, the vote is on. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u182	Dear President! I am probably repeating myself because he is once again a member of the Supervisory Board, a member of the Supervisory Board proposed by the Coalition LDS in this Supervisory Committee. Before that, we discussed the back-up session, the resignation of a member of the Supervisory Committee proposed by Coalition Really. So obviously, these people who have been proposed by the Coalition to the Supervisory Board are going to say, "vomiting," as they've been watching what's going on in the last period. From writing people or in the resignation statements of these retired members of the Supervisory Board there are such dictions as "investment adventures of the last director" and so on. In order for the members of the Supervisory Board to describe the investment policy of the fund to be adopted by the Government, the Governing Board, as investment adventures of the fund's director, is concerned. This is public money dedicated to the very important energy needs of this country, this is the decommissioning of the Krka nuclear power plant and the regulation of the landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste. This is a €150 million fund and it is an investment adventure for a person who has helped friendly economic operators, including from the local environment, in this investment adventure. In fact, both of them who have resigned from this Supervisory Committee are not referring to any planning, locally oriented financial adventure of this Fund. And if we look at what this fund has invested under the leadership of Mrs Znidaršič Planinc, we can find that it is the purchase of some 6 million euro bonds, internal bonds of the Slovenian State Publications, which, by the way, is controlled by Mr Bojan Petan, born Brežičan and at the same time Director Terme Catež, and it is an internal or business bond of the company Delo Sales, which is controlled by the same gentleman. So it is difficult to avoid any more than the obvious link between this adventurous investment policy and this particular gentleman who has come up with relatively cheap money. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling very hard today to obtain some money to finance their business, development projects – including the stability programme to be addressed tomorrow by the Finance Committee – says that this is one of the key weaknesses of the current business environment in this country. To the Lord, whom I have mentioned, the fund would have EUR 9 million of credit, some kind of credit, because the purchase of bonds from a company is nothing more than lending to this company and it is no wonder that the coalition people also resisted such willful conduct of the act of duty and, last but not least, it is not surprising that this personal choice is Mrs Radic's, for once again it was only her and her proposal, and at the end there was no other choice than to replace or replace it. I hope that these derogations will not only sober up coalition policy in order to deal with this fund more responsibly. Dearly beloved, would it not be normal for you to start the project of building a landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste at the time of the economic crisis? The local community has offered a location, the money is available and the project is not from anyone. Why? Answer it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Rudolf Petan. [[He won't discuss it.]] Ivan Grill. Please, Ivan Grill has the floor. Get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I hope that we will not witness another resignation from the new member at the next meeting, because it is very symptomatic that each month one of these members actually decides to resign. We can ask ourselves why. Or is it because they are so right, so honest that they can’t look at all of these if we call it irregularities, lumbaries, or a strong desire to rob themselves of what could be done there, or can’t they be part of this team so that they can have something of their own? This could be a big, big dilemma. Otherwise, at the beginning of this term, when you also wanted to compare this fund as your electoral prey with a large capital, you were gradually setting up a planned staffing team to manage and channel these significant financial resources. There were unjustified reasons for you to suspend Dr Romano Jordan Cizelj with some explanation by the then President of the anti-corruption commission, Mr Kos, that the European Ambassador's role in the board of directors was incompatible. Where is this anti-corruption commission now that it has purchased shares or bonds at such a favourable interest rate from Mr. Petan? Isn't there a sign of some kind of corruption, some kind of clienteleism? There is no principled opinion. Interesting. At the time, it was only a matter of principle that some mandates had actually been put into practice. I also wish and expect all those responsible for managing this important nuclear decommissioning fund to act responsibly, and that those who have confirmed it today will also carry out their functions professionally and will contribute to the end of this irregularity, as well as the sleepiness of this committee, to continue. I myself will now support this decision or this proposal or this withdrawal, not least we will not be left with another one, in the hope that there will be no new withdrawal in the coming month, but above all in the hope that instead a competent candidate or candidate will be confirmed and that you will not choose again, as we have been trained all the time, after political affiliation and obedience as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much. From these concessions we receive on the table, it is in fact understood that the coalition is in the final stage, that everything left in the accounts must be grabbed and grabbed, whether it will be deliberately used or not. In short, these proposals for withdrawal statements, which are read as a horror, show that the objective is to continue until the end of the term of office, only to collect all available funds from all institutions, institutions, funds and so on. I think that the Government and the coalition in the National Assembly, in these two successive cases of derogations from the NEK Decommissioning Fund's Supervisory Committee, should seriously consider taking appropriate procedures, adopting appropriate solutions, proposing legislative corrections and, in particular, initiating procedures against persons who have infringed the laws and rules of good conduct. It should be particularly committed to this - a new policy that should bring new working methods, new quality, into this political space through elections. We see that old practice has developed very well, that is to say, you take, you hide, you go, you move to the Pacific islands or the Caribbean and elsewhere. In short, in the previous term, when you were members of this fund, there were also members of the current opposition in the bodies of this fund; neither did the opposition members write such horrors. For example, Mrs Montenegro was in one of these bodies of this fund, but she did not detect any irregularities, she did not make a resignation statement, nothing. In this mandate, when you are only from the same house, under the same umbrella, members of these bodies of the Fund, there are derogations and there are horrifying reasons for their resignation. The sale, formerly, colleague Vizjak told the investment venture and so on. I hope that, if not elsewhere, at least on TV 3, some version of the FOX Crime programme will develop, so that we will also monitor how these crime detection procedures, detection of white collar crime and the like will be resolved. I hope if you don't, at least you'll make it possible on TV 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-04-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to discharge Anton Mustar's functions as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of involvement in the financing of disputed management acquisitions and the lack of takeover legislation. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility in the preparation and implementation of construction investments in the area of the construction of motorways and economic infrastructure financed by the State budget The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternates of the Investigative Commission to establish the political responsibility of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Gregor Golobic, due to the suspicion of clientelism and corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Transport Committee. The national assembly shall be held at the 26th session of the 23rd. 3. In 2011 he adopted a decision to conclude that Mr Srečko Friend had terminated his term of office. Since Srečko Friend served as Vice-President of the Committee on Transport, the reason for the suspension of the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Transport also arose with the end of his term of office. The Slovenian National Party's emissary group shall be 30. 3. 2011 informed the President of the National Assembly that she was proposing to be a candidate for the Vice-President of the Transport Committee, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party of Mag. Sarah Wheeler. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Transport Committee. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye. The meeting was closed on 4 May 2011 at 16.52.
