ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be resumed by the following Member: Mr Lojze Posedel. No other excuses were received in the leadership of the National Assembly. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on integration and the prevention of corruption after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 75 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jakob Preseknik. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mr Jakob Presecnik, representative of the law's drafters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Last year, in the National Assembly, we adopted the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption, the basic objective of which was to ensure the conditions for employees and officials to carry out their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner and thus continue to effectively achieve the strategic objectives set out in the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. After a bad year of law enforcement, certain shortcomings have been identified. In practice, the provision of Article 35 of the Act, which provides that a contracting entity operating under public procurement rules shall not operate with entities where an official who performs functions in that contracting entity or his family member, a member of the management department or, directly or through other legal persons, is more than 5% involved in the establishment of rights, management or capital. The second paragraph of that Article further provides that the prohibition referred to in Article 35 shall also apply mutatis mutandis to State aid and other means of obtaining funds from contracting entities operating under public procurement rules and to concessions and other forms of public-private partnership, except for State aid in the event of natural disasters. This regime has proved to be problematic, particularly at the local level. In practice, there have been three cases of business bans that are most problematic and have proved disproportionate in terms of the likelihood of corruption. The first case is a restriction on the business between the municipality and the company, whose president is also a municipal official. Where the official or his family member is involved in the management of the company, society shall not obtain funds from the municipal budget allocated by the municipality through public tendering or otherwise. The second case concerns the prohibition of obtaining grants for the promotion of agriculture or the promotion of a small economy and other funds awarded by the municipality. This means that a municipal official cannot obtain such funds if he applies for a public invitation to tender for the granting of municipal aid or other means of obtaining funds. Nor can it acquire funds in the public tender for measures and aid, for example, investments in agricultural holdings, for primary production, aid for the payment of insurance premiums, conservation and protection of traditional landscapes, aid for the promotion of production and marketing of quality agricultural products. However, the third case, which has also proved to be disproportionate, relates to operating restrictions under public procurement rules. We've highlighted a case of winter gliding roads. The contracting authority may not conclude a contract with the contracting authority concerning the winter leaching of roads to remote farms, even though it is the most favourable and, in fact, the only one with such equipment. The first two cases that are exposed are combined with the fact that the official does not have any effect on the choice of the recipient of the aid or the recipient of the funds that the authority or any other beneficiary has awarded, since the allocation of funds under the pre-adopted rules is made through a call for tender. The Special Commission shall, by means of pre-known and precisely defined criteria, identify the roles that have been submitted and submit to the relevant authority all those roles that fulfil those criteria. Therefore, there is no danger that the official could influence the choice of the recipient of the aid or of other assets awarded. In view of the numerous comments and complaints concerning the above-mentioned cases, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we decided to draft a bill that would ease the current regulation, which has proved to be very problematic and non-lifelike at the local level, particularly in smaller municipalities. It was also in our interest to obtain the greatest possible political consensus within the National Assembly on the regulation of this issue, which we have also succeeded in having as many as 75 colleagues and fellow Members signed under the law. However, the proposal for an amendment law was slightly amended in its consideration of the draft law on the labour market. The exceptions to the operating ban under the public procurement rules were excluded and the operating ban extended to the lower parts of the municipality. It has also been decided that other transactions and asset acquisitions must take into account provisions concerning the conflict of interest or the exclusion of an official from all decisions on the acquisition of funds. The provisions on the supervision of the Commission’s assets status of European institutions’ officials have also been deleted, as this should be outside the competence of the Commission to prevent corruption. Nevertheless, we believe that the basic purpose of the bill, in particular the elimination of non-life situations in the business between the municipality and society and the possibility of obtaining grants by the municipality, has been achieved. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the applicants, I expect the proposed law to be jointly supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Dr. Vinko Gorenak to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was discussed by the Committee at its 30th meeting, on 16 March 2011. The proposal is Mr Preseknik as the first to be signed and the group of Members. The material that we had at our disposal was a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Government, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, opinions of the municipalities of Krško, Ljubljana, Maribor. In the introduction, the position was presented by Mr Preseknik, a member of Parliament who spoke about the purposes of the law. We then listened to the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 and Articles 4 and 5 are deleted. In view of the integral text of the law before you, we voted and adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister, Mrs Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, for the opening presentation of the Government's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members, I wish you well tomorrow. When we confirmed the text of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption a year ago in this National Assembly, we confirmed it with the knowledge that we have installed all important institutions for ensuring integrity and preventing corruption in the public sector. After a year of evaluation and careful monitoring of the new institutions, we, like most Members and Members, have indisputably concluded, after talking to the contractors, that Article 35 of the law, as extensively explained by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption on the one hand, and as we did not have it in mind, neither the Government nor Members, when we confirmed the text of the law, require corrections. These corrections, which are before you today in the complementary proposal of the Integrity Act, by amending Article 35, adequately resolve issues that have proved to be substantially too restrictive and have not led to the objective that we pursued at the time of the adoption of the law. It was also right that, in preparing the amended article, we have cooperated with both the anti-corruption Commission and the operators of this regulation and together with the proponents have drawn up the solution before you today. My assessment is that this is how we should act in all the rules that we are adopting. After one year of implementation of each regulation, it is right to evaluate its implementation and where we find that the implementation of the regulation does not achieve the objective that we have pursued, to respond quickly and effectively in a manner that is necessary to prepare amendments to this regulation. The government fully agrees with the text that is before you today, and we therefore propose that the Members support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, he shall have the word mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u8	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was adopted last year and entered into force 5. 6th in 2010. It provides conditions for transparent and fair work of officials at national and local level. It addresses the issue of the admissibility of gainful work for professional officials as well as certain restrictions on others. It also solves the problem of gifts as an important content of possible corruption. The existing law also resolves the following forms of incompatibility: the restriction on the business between the municipality and the company, whose leading member is, for example, the municipal councillor, in such a case, cannot obtain funds from the municipal budget; it prohibits the acquisition of grants for the promotion of agriculture or the promotion of a small economy under the de minimis rule and other funds awarded by the municipality; the restriction of the transaction with the contracting authority, which must follow the public procurement rules. The law in force did not include those who are employed in European institutions and international organisations or individuals who perform functions in those organisations. We think these should be included. The main objective of the proposed amendments and additions is to ease the overly restrictive restrictions on certain officials at local level and, on the other hand, the integration of all others is needed in a more consistent manner, with a view to the staff and officials of the European and international institutions. The proposed amendments preserve the principles of the current law and preserve the importance of fighting corruption. The main solutions include the removal of restrictions on the operation and intertwining of supervisory functions when operating in one and operating in another municipality, the deletion of the provisions on the prohibition of obtaining State aid, the removal of the prohibition of dealing with family members, but the Commission will have to decide on all cases and exceptions. The law is short and concise, we exclude restrictions that have been disproportionately strict and have aroused more dissatisfaction and disrespect on the one hand and, on the other hand, the supervision and protection of staff members and officials in European and international institutions, which can be agreed upon. Although the law has been shortened or amended in this last part of the committee, our parliamentary group will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague, colleague, good morning! Since the adoption and implementation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, many issues have been referred to the Commission for the prevention of corruption from the very beginning, which are and relate to the incompatibilities of the functions, the declaration of property, the business between societies and municipalities, if the President of the Society is a member of the municipal council, lobbying and other matters relating to the content of the law itself. And these are the reasons why we Members and Members of Parliament have decided to try to remedy some of the provisions in our opinion. The solutions adopted on the home working body are the fruit of additional coordination with representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, the Community of Municipalities, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and some of the signatories to this Act, in particular at the point governing the procurement procedures and linked to the regulation of Article 35. With regard to the initial supplement in Articles 4 and 5, in order to ensure that the undertakings to which the Commission controls their assets, including officials and servants in the European institutions and other international institutions from Slovenia sent to those institutions on the basis of a decision of the Government or the National Assembly, have been informed by the Government that the proposal is indeterminate or that the circle of entities to which the proposed provision is to apply is not sufficiently defined. The President of the Commission stressed in particular that the property situation, for example, of a judge of the European Court of Human Rights or of a judge of the European Communities, cannot be supervised because the Republic of Slovenia has no jurisdiction over them. On the basis of the concerns expressed and the written opinion of the Government, these two amendments were deleted by the amendment of the Committee. The events of the last week relating to the European Parliament's corruption affair may help to bring about more debate today, but I would like to draw attention to the applicable law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, Article 6, paragraph 4, which defines the officials or officials to whom this law applies. Among them are, I quote, 'Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, where their rights and obligations are not otherwise regulated by acts of the European Parliament and other Slovenian officials in European institutions and other international institutions'. Thus, unless otherwise regulated in the acts of the European Parliament or other international institutions, the law also applies to these officials, so is the European Members. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposed amendment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much. We passed the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption last year, which we are correcting this year. As you have seen, with 75 signatures, which means that there is a relatively large consensus that this law should be corrected. Of course, the following must be said. Last year when we adopted this law, we also stressed in the party that I belong to, that this law was made quickly, by force, that the amendments were written here, somehow on our knees, and that the professional colleagues of this amendment on a fast-track pretecaliin we got them on the table and accepted something that we didn't really know what we were accepting. And that's not good. That is why it has also come to the conclusion that we have adopted a law in which, as I have repeatedly pointed out, people need to be told, the President of the Fire Company cannot, or the Fire Company, whose President is also a municipal councilman, can't run for any money for the firefighting society or can run for office and is automatically eliminated. In short, we took the crap. There's probably more nonsense in this marriage. That is why we have also supported or co-signed this law. We also agree with the solution that is now envisaged, let's say that the municipal councillor, who owns, at the same time, I don't know, snow plows, can't take part in a public invitation to tender, okay. We agree. But it is also right to correct this law in the part that we are now doing. The case is the one I mentioned earlier, from the point of view of the municipal councillor, who is at the same time the president of the fire company. Of course, this also applies to farmers and participation in calls for proposals and so on. Of course, the events of the last days, I think mainly of Mr Thaler, scream directly after the need to correct paragraphs 4 and 5 as well. There is no reason, we see no reason in this, and in this context we have also tabled amendments to Articles 4 and 5 so that those individuals who are sent by this Parliament or Government to work in the European Union, any institution, would not be subject to all the same standards as the anti-corruption commission, such as all other officials, such as Members of the National Assembly. There is no reason for us to see that Mr Squeakl, Mr Rob, and so on, we would not have the same responsibilities as the anti-corruption commission as we Members, or anyone else here in the National Assembly. If there is a problem, and I believe that the problem that the predecessor has said is, say, the judges of the European Court of Justice or any of the judges we send from Slovenia to the European Union, we can say very clearly in our amendment, comma, and add that this provision does not apply to the judges of the European Court and I do not know which judges all the more. But there is no reason that we could not make this amendment, I expect the coalition to complement it, fix it, or fix it together, or whatever. I am convinced that all the people sent by the National Assembly or the Government to work in the European Union must be brought into this law except for judges. I would like to point out that there is no reason why a Member of the European Parliament would not, in the light of this law, be bound by the Anti-Corruption Commission, all reporting to the Anti-Corruption Commission. I would like to point out that the last case with Mr. Thaler is directly shouting to support our amendments. That is why I call on you to correct them together, and to supplement them, except for the judges, but all the other individuals, I stress that either the National Assembly or the Government is sending to work in the European Union, we will bring them under the auspices of this law. With the general support of the law, we will think a little bit, regardless of the fact that we are signatories to the matter, but we insist on it, and we want these officials I have mentioned to be subject to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, Minister! True, we are correcting the integrity law after about a year of adoption. But in life it has been shown that some adjustments are necessary. I'm sure that's not the last correction. As I know, the Anti-Corruption Commission has, from its point of view, prepared or, with the assistance of fellow Members, made further amendments to the procedure. However, I think there will also be some new reflections in other areas. In any case, the reality must also be followed in this matter, and in the case that we are talking about today and where we are investing, I will say, quite uniformly – all the Members' groups are co-signatures of these corrections – but it has proved necessary. Colleagues have already talked about non-life situations. I can say that, in the case of some congregations, that means, I'll say, contamination, in a way, more than half of the municipal councillors, which I think is good. Speaking of living in local communities and in municipalities, it is clear that representatives of societies, representatives of humanitarian organisations, presidents of firefighters, sports, cultural and similar matters are sitting in municipal councils, because they are people who are known in their environments, who have the reputation, who are active and who are also among the people. We have in some way, I will say, with certain overly restrictive solutions, banned the business and cooperation of societies in which municipal councilors or their family members would be associated with them in any way. This needs to be corrected, and because of this, I am sure, there will be no problems in Slovenia, no major problems with corruption, but of course they will have to be excluded from the procedures that will take place in the municipality. It is good practice that we were quick and effective to react as soon as we saw this problem, both in the National Assembly and in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which, at the outset, had quite a few strong words, but in this regard, I will say, I will finally listen to the argument, and of course also in the Ministry. There was a good solution to it and in its preparation, and the community of municipalities also participated, so I think that, I will say, this proposal that we have before us is now being corrected and that will solve this problem. However, it must be said that some problems remain open. We have already warned of one issue at the reception stage, which remains open, about the potential for mayors to perform and have the opportunity to be in the supervisory bodies of economic public services whose founder is the municipality. More specifically, we have somehow prevented the mayor from actively participating in the control bodies of municipal companies and so on. This is a matter that may or may not be disputed. On the one hand, they bear full responsibility for the business of these matters, and they want to have an influence on these matters. Second, of course, we fear that certain anomalies may also occur. I am confident that this case, given that several cases have been brought before the Constitutional Court, will also be judged by the Constitutional Court. Then we will have to adapt in one way or another to the solutions that follow their decision. I'm sure some of these things will come up on our bench in the future. But here I do not think there are any fears and fears that have been exposed several times in the media to some kind of, of course, I will say, in the pronunciations, the mayor's lobby, in Parliament, looking for some circuitry for things that might cause problems. I think we've solved them well and there's no way in this field there's going to be bigger problems. However, we have adopted a solution that will allow people who are active to continue to sit in the municipal councils and participate in this work, so that we will not, of course, prevent the societies from which they come from from having no opportunity to access the various funds that the congregation grants through public calls and so on. We will support the proposal in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u16	Good morning, good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Let me start by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support with all our votes the proposal for a new Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is also understandable, given that the bill was created in our parliamentary group and that we are also under the law among the first-signed Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were very sensitive to the problems that have arisen in the application of the law mainly in Slovene municipalities due to the inhuman provisions of the current Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, in particular Article 35. We have received a large number of comments from individuals who serve in the congregation, and at the same time either the presidents of societies or they wanted to obtain grants from the municipality to promote agriculture or promote a small economy, and there is a fear that they will not be able to obtain these funds because of the ban on doing business as defined in Article 35 of the current law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already warned in the process of adopting a valid law on integrity and preventing corruption that such regulation can cause business problems, particularly at local level. Our prognosis has proved to be real. Shortly after the law was in force, it was shown that the restrictions on business, as defined in Article 35 of the Law, could endanger the functioning of a multitude of societies, since society should not acquire funds from the municipality if, for example, its President is also a municipal official. It should be pointed out that a large number of municipal officials come from voluntary organisations, in particular societies that have gained the citizens’ confidence in choosing them through their good and honest work in these organisations. As a result of operating restrictions, these officials cannot apply for municipal invitations to tender or obtain funds from the municipal budget. The next problem that has been raised is the prohibition of obtaining grants for the promotion of agriculture or the promotion of a small economy under the de minimis rule and other funds awarded by the municipality. This means that a municipal official cannot obtain funds under the de minimis rule if he applies to a public tender for the award of municipal aid or other means of obtaining funds, nor can he acquire funds in a public tender for measures and aid. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, it is essential to reach out to the material position of the farm operator, who is very welcome in any financial assistance and is given an important financial resource for investing in his own farm. A similar situation is the case with the prohibition of public procurement when it is prohibited for an official to carry out a particular business with the contracting authority. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have heard about the problems of individuals and we have actively engaged in solving this problem because we wanted to ease the provisions of the law that prohibit the operation between the municipality and the official or organization in which the official or his family member is involved in the management. We have therefore decided to draw up a proposal for a law to mitigate operating restrictions in a way that would allow companies to function normally and obtain grants to promote agriculture and promote a small economy. We also wanted to remove operating restrictions under public procurement rules. The draft law, signed by the first member of the Slovenian People's Party, Jakob Presekniki, has received a positive response from almost all sent groups, as 75 Members have submitted their signatures to the bill, which shows that the issue is serious and difficult to regulate as soon as possible. Although the bill has changed in the course of the legislative process and still contains operating restrictions under the public procurement rules, and business restrictions extend to the lower parts of the municipality, we are satisfied in the Slovenian People's Party's Group with the Committee's decision and, of course, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, good morning and welcome! Practice has shown that the applicable law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is only difficult to implement and that it could be said to be non-life-like, mainly causing problems at local level. Therefore, a proposal to amend and supplement the existing law has been tabled by as many as 75 Members from the majority of the parliamentary groups, showing that the provisions of the law in practice restrict both the law and the law itself are not written on the skin of either political option. Members of the DeSUS Group have also decided to co-sign the bill because we believe that changes are necessary and because the proposal does not in principle change the basic law, which thus still pursues the fundamental objective of ensuring that employees and officials carry out their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner. Emphasis is primarily on fair. Many dilemmas were raised in the adoption of the applicable law. However, some provisions have proved to be pointless in practice. We have had quite a few concerns in the DeSUS Group as well, but last but not least we have decided to support the law, because we believed in its good purpose, which we still believe, but we also believe that some provisions should be softened in our opinion, which may limit individuals' rights to participate in the management and management of local self-government communities and the right to freedom of association and action in the civil sphere of social life. The restriction, as defined in the current law, may, in our opinion, jeopardise the functioning of societies that are the most important source of funding from municipal budgets, as they cannot apply for municipal public tendering because of their restrictions on their business, or the functioning of the company is threatened by the resignation of a representative of the company elected to the municipal council. The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption repeals a provision whereby a municipal official cannot obtain funds under the de minimis rule if he applies to a public tender for the award of municipal aid or other means of obtaining funds under the de minimis rule, nor can he acquire funds in a public tender for measures and aid. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that we have found a broader consensus on the support of the amendment, which means that the proposal is also supported by the Ministry of Public Administration and the anti-corruption commission. So we will also support the proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u20	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! We are always more aware in the Slovenian National Party that we are not correcting laws because they are bad, but because they do not correspond to certain political options or are adapting them to the current interests of the ruling coalition. The basic objective of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which entered into force 5. 6. 2010 is to ensure that officials and officials carry out their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner. The provisions of Chapter 4 of the Act also govern the prevention of conflicts of interest and the control of a gainful activity which an official may not carry out. As we see here, the law is clear, but for some too concrete, because it is written in such a way that it cannot be played, so the proposed amendment that would change the law in this direction, so that it no longer follows the objective as it has written down, but that, as the proponent has written down, the harsh provisions of the law, which are clear and follow the objective of preventing the untransparent functioning of officials, also in small local communities. Surely this is a problem in congregations where there are only a few 100 inhabitants, but it cannot be a reason for the law to be reformed to the extent that it can be broken, abused, and for small congregations to function more easily. The community is too much anyway, and they are the burden of the country, especially the smaller ones, so that it would be advisable to start working on the unity of the congregations. To say that the proposed law does not diminish the importance of the fight against corruption is larifari and anyone who has been a saint in the municipal world so far does not convince, but if so, it changes. This must be in line with the mayors and those who have the most mayors, but it is unfair to look at the matter only in terms of the interests of individuals and capital, but they are not interested in what citizens think about it. In the case of the President of the Fire Company that he cannot be a saint or vice versa, the decision of the individual is not a legislator. I think that this comparison was incorrect, and by comparing it to a Member's conscience, it hides everything but firefighters. The Anti-Corruption Commission correctly notes that the amendments proposed return the law to the previous situation, meaning at least four years ago. The proposed directive that the Commission should give its consent on a case-by-case basis has already been in force and has not been effective, since it concerns 211 municipalities and would be too extensive and impossible to do so. I don't know why she's panicking and why the changes? As already explained on the Committee, local communities have legal personality and there are no officials. The municipality can delegate to the local community any of its tasks, of course, if it wants things to work. So there is no need for anyone to worry that the roads will not be crawled and maintained by the fault of the state if the law does not happen. All I see is the fear of mayors who don't want to give up certain powers that are so frantic about them. We will, of course, vote against it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the National Assembly! Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, once again welcome! We supported the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption adopted by the National Assembly on 26 May 2010 at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The basic purpose of the law, as set out in Article 1, is to strengthen the functioning of the rule of law by means of methods and measures to enhance integrity and transparency and to prevent corruption and to eliminate conflicts of interest. We still believe that the law we passed last year is relatively good, but we also attach it to the conclusion that some of the laws laid down in practice have proved to be non-life. The problems arose mainly at the level of local communities, where it was common for active individuals to appear in more roles than elected municipal councillors or saints, as owners of economic operators operating with municipalities, as well as activists and presidents of individual associations or NGOs. Above all, the latter are of paramount importance to our society, energy, will and sacrifice, which are invested in voluntary work in societies by presidents and presidents and by members and members of societies, is immeasurable. It is important that we do not make the situation difficult for these people, nor do we put them before they are chosen or participate in the municipal council or do voluntary work in society, so in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we welcome the solutions to the novel, which will at least partially eliminate such problems. We support the purpose and solutions of the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in the LDS Club, namely, that the amendment solves or corrects the provisions of the law governing the relationship between the various functionaries and the activities involved in the process of cooperation with public law and with the holders of public powers and in practice prove to be inadequate. Allow me to present you with a concrete example from which it is possible to understand the non-lifelessness of the existing law, which, unfortunately, we could not have foreseen just before the entry into force of the law. The case took place in one of the Slovene municipalities, which reads as follows: The Municipal Council is also the owner of a flower shop, the only flower shop in the municipality. The nearest flower shop is about 25 kilometers away. On one occasion, the municipality wanted to buy three carnations at a total value of €3. Of course, since the congregation operates legally and follows accepted regulations, it was not possible to buy these carnations in a flower shop in the municipality’s council, but instead they had to send someone to a 25 - km - away flower shop and buy what they needed. I probably don't need to point out that for the first time the legal option has stopped, and for the second time, it has not contributed in any way to the fight or the prevention of corruption. I am convinced that such and similar cases in Slovenia are still large, especially in small municipalities where the choice of different service providers and products is limited. Following a discussion on the working body, the solutions to such pointless situations were rejected, as the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission called on members of the Committee not to give the Commission the power to assess individual cases, as originally provided for by the amendment of the law, since this Commission does not have the capacity to carry out such a task. Public procurement thus remains fully regulated as regulated by the applicable law. I am aware of the importance of fighting corruption. The events and revelations that took place last week strengthened my conviction. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that every effort must be made at the normative level to combat corruption effectively. However, we must not put the work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in an unequal position in this account, which is what is happening in the current law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law, although it does not fully address the problems that have arisen through the implementation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, in the hope that these problems will be overcome by the amendment of the law that comes on the parliamentary bench and resolve the issue and eliminate all other non-life articles of the already adopted law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 3. 2011. I inform you that the amendments have been tabled under Articles 4 and 5. They were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. However, since the amendments are interlinked, we will discuss the amendments to Articles 4 and 5 and the two articles together. Anybody want a word? Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. That this is a law whose aim is primarily to create the appearance that the Government is fighting corruption, that it is excessive, in other provisions weak, we have already warned in the SDS Group that this law has been adopted. Unfortunately, the warnings were overheard. What happened later? Zoran Thaler happened despite the fact that this law applies and that it also applies to him. Zoran Thaler did nothing to prevent or expose this law, was exposed by British journalists, only because they were still working in accordance with the principles of research journalism and did not follow the code of ethics of Greg Repovž. That's why this story broke. And this is obviously an effective prevention when it comes to exposing such acts, not a bluff law that causes insurmountable problems, not to local ones, but to some other levels. Such a case has been cited. I'll tell you another absurd case. In one of the cities, more south of the country, one man owns a car wash, otherwise a successful entrepreneur. He was a member of the congregation council. So that there would be no doubt, since, of course, the congregation also washes its cars in that car wash, it gave way not to anyone to tell him that it was corrupt. In my opinion, it is bordering on the absurd theatre, especially if we compare it with Thaler's 100,000 euros. But this is the law, this is its range, and this is what this marriage really does. It is interesting, however, that although the law is obviously flawed, you refuse to extend such a weak law to all those who are sent by the Government or Parliament as employees or officials to the European Union. Who would this marriage involve? The first one that comes to my mind is Mr. Milan M. Squeakle. In order for the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption to apply also to Milan M. Squill, you object, do not surprise me. You certainly know why you're doing this, and in this bush is the rabbit of today's story.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Madam Secretary? Then I'll give you time to report. Who else would like to discuss Articles 4 and 5 please apply? Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I have already said in my proposal for the position of the Group that in our view this 4th and 5th paragraphs should be adopted. At the same time, I am aware that the most likely dictatorship of these two articles, which lead to the law and under the duties of this law to the corruption commission, is also the people that this National Assembly and the Government send to the European Union's institutions, is probably not appropriate. Mr Kolarič pointed out to judicial officials, then I got from the coalition types at least a hint that it would really suggest that we change this so that there would be only other officials and not those, for example, ordinary employees, I don't know if the secretary on the invitation to tender is registered to an institution, then let it not be included in it. I agree with all of this, but now I have no intention of modifying the amendment from you, nor am I able to amend the amendment in business anymore, so I propose and ask you to support the amendment, both of you, and that in the third reading together we will formulate such amendments that are in line with what we want to achieve. This is to bring into this law all those whom the National Assembly and the Government send to the European Union institutions to submit to all these requirements, including Members, to the Anti-Corruption Commission, minus, of course, those judges or whatever within the European Union. It seems to me that this compromise would be a good compromise and that, in fact, we would tell the citizens that, for example, Thaler we are not immune and that we want to make one good move. That is why I urge you to support the amendments so that they will not be disputed in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u28	Your Honor! The amendment is to be supported. As far as I am concerned, even this exception, which has been discussed here, is not necessary because it seems to me that it applies to all those who have any possibility of affecting certain decisions and are also non-immunal in this context. I am sorry that you come from every point of view — from journalists to some civil servants and so on — and that you are arguing the essence that we must all have before our eyes. I'm sure this should have been included in the law before, in the law in force, but it has to be self-critical here. In the last six years, we have dealt with this law in a different way, if you want, from the removal of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the so-called Kosovo Commission, to some other debates and proposals that went against what was in force with this law, which, in fact, has been required to complement it, and we have one more in line, I regret that it has not been possible to combine both laws into one and to discuss what is still ahead. But that's irrelevant when we're all talking about the same thing and we want to do the same thing. Therefore, to prevent any possibility that anyone could avoid doing bad things to be responsible for the law, and especially if he is a public official, so as not to be in shock. And here it is, I think, the point. Therefore, I believe that it will be very difficult for anyone to convince us if we do not go to the matter alone and talk about dealing with corruption, preventing all measures from being possible and introducing zero tolerance in these matters, which is more or less in my opinion, and should be so. Therefore, it is a shame if you start over-labelling individuals, including those who have not yet, apart from the opinions of individuals, found themselves in any proceedings, and you are doing so today. Some of your Members are also doing this on their working bodies and so on, with names, surnames and similar things. It's just not going anywhere. For this, there are other authorities and we need to establish mechanisms to be able to carry out their tasks properly. The purpose of this law was to eliminate certain things that were lifelessly restricting certain, in my opinion, also the rights of citizens and citizens to be active both in local self-government and in social, social life and to be activated in this part, as well as in carrying out certain activities that do not have a corrupt effect on the performance of, say, the functions of saints in the municipal world. Well, to be clear, at the time that this law was not in force, some comments were made by the municipalities regarding the saints, the mayors and so on, how individual decisions were issued, how the problems with the disclosure of property or the surrender of forms and similar things were. We've been dealing with this for at least six years, if not more. It is therefore a shame that today, in this law, which is, irrespective of the fact that everything here has been foretold, what interests some in the SLS have, others have – this is not about one party or another, but it is my belief that some relations in this society need to be transparent, which must be transparent and have an effect on all the same. I see no other approach and I do not want to accept it as a possible consideration that this law works for the image of the SLS or for the coalition or for any other interested group. As soon as we do this in this way, the thing is seductive and then it turns out that there is a provision in the law that is later interpreted as to how something was deliberately built in order to achieve a certain goal. But when that was accepted, no one warned of that. Mr. Grimes, you've pointed out a lot of other things. You also warned that Kosovo needs to be abolished, that this institution needs to be completely abolished so that, for example, a group can be called unhindered, after Slovenia's handshake, as it would have been called. And some say that during a period of time there has been a handshake from Kopra to Gorica and elsewhere in Slovenia, when they talk about some companies that have been involved with public servants, even officials have had a privileged position, or individuals who have come to the right positions. There really isn't a tribunal here where I'd be judged now, who's less, who's less, who's something or what hasn't been done. Except, I say, some Members who dare to do so are so ruthlessly, without evidence of defaming people. This is in this House that I do not speak beyond this. That is why I believe that it is necessary to clarify what these concepts mean in this amendment, but I am not sure that we cannot go in the direction that this would not also apply to senior officials or officials from the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. In this sense, I am also considering supporting these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Replica Mr Grims, please. [[...]] [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I know, but Mr. Grimes has the right to a replica. [[...]] Mr. Grimes has the floor. Mr. Anderlich, order is yours, too. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you. Take a look at the fact that Mr Anderlich mentioned my comments on the Kosovo Commission; Mr Kos himself said at the committee's meeting that he had over 500 pending cases at the conclusion of the Commission's work. Then I hope we agree, at least that it would be difficult to talk about the great success of this commission. But about everything else – I was talking about indisputable facts. On the one hand, colleagues from the SD defended the law, which apparently did not impede or prevent Mr Thaler from going into a corrupt act, and on the other hand opposed the amendment, which would allow him to capture all the others who are in the European Union, including Mr Milan M. Squeak. That's an indisputable fact. And I'm sure they know why they're doing it. In order to avoid misunderstandings, other indications are that things in this society are poorly regulated in this area. Let's say that if you just refuse to look at a story when the scene of the most violent crime or, if you want the tragedy of last year, you find another person's blood, DNA, and then the thing stops there, then that's probably to be highlighted from that point of view. The situation in justice is likely to need to be different. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u31	Mr Grimes, we are talking about the law and the amendment, not specific cases. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u32	the fight against corruption in all the failings of this society to settle otherwise, not as regulated by this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u33	Mr Grims!Mr Grimes, thank you very much and kindly please respect the chairman, who has the right to warn you and you must stop the debate for this time. [[...]] Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I support the amendment because they complement the original bill. However, I cannot go beyond the fact that I would no longer put the existing law into a group of laws that are of such nature that the ink of the signatory, that is, the President of the Government, is already in need of change, of addition, I do not know what else. This law was very strong in the field during the local elections, since it almost prevented citizens and citizens from running for municipal councillors in the entire segment. At the same time, he has burdened Kosovo and now Klemenčič's committee with "whole stacks", I think, of unnecessary data. From the selection of candidates for municipal councilors are more or less excluded craftsmen, colleagues have already mentioned banal cases, and doctors do not hope to make decisions, especially concessionaires, and from our municipal council in the previous term, he did not want to run the glass windowr again because he lost all public contracts. During the current term of office, it was found to be a municipal councilwoman that her husband might be infected, and she changed her residence in a neighboring congregation, that she did not cause a storm in a glass of water, so that we could immediately appoint a substitute saint. There are even more similar banal cases. Because of this law, I do not think that any great beast has been caught, it has not been prevented from doing so, for every congregational council has an opposition that is also over every branch, and if it had found a corrupt act, so, a craftsman, a municipal council, a public procurement, would have somehow risen. We would also jump up and down all the bereaved who have not come to a narrower choice for some business, and under existing legislation, some corrupt act with or without law could be prevented. Of course, the European Member is now a very hot topic, which is likely to be awaited by another law, because the European Union expects further investigations into the suspicions of the following corruption. His private company advised in Macedonia, I think that candidate Crvenkovski is also rapporteur for Macedonia. And the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was obviously blind here, independent research journalists had to come. However, since the colleague has already mentioned our former colleague, I think it was unnecessary, because I believe that Comrade Squeakl has a very innate sense of justice, which he has communicated throughout the previous term, and will follow the example of his German counterpart, the Minister who resigned, because of the gross misdemeanour. We know what it's like to be copied, they get you in school when you're copied, they take your sheet and they write you a flower, and it's an ad acta thing. I'll support the amendments, but I don't have the best opinion on the marriage, the original one, and I hope it'll be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments, because we are discussing the amendment to Articles 4 and 5, I will not support the two proposed amendments. It would be extremely good and useful if some of the colleagues who have already discussed could read the Committee's report again. In particular, I myself have looked at it several times, particularly in paragraphs 4 and 5, as explained by the Committee's explanation or report, where it is also clearly stated, and my colleague Zvona Kolarič also made clear in his presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, and stressed what it means under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, item 6 Functioners or officials, and in relation to those, as well as the proposed amendments, in relation to those nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who are officials and servants of the institutions and other bodies of the European Union. And right here, let me just read from the report so that it can't come out in any other way. "It also raises the question whether the Republic of Slovenia has, in such a case, such supervisory jurisdiction over persons performing work in European and international institutions, especially since some are elected to their position by the institution in which they work. These persons are not by appointment representatives of the Republic of Slovenia, but are independent officials or public servants of European or international institutions and must act in accordance with the rules of these institutions. In addition to this, international institutions have their own rules on conflict of interest and property if they do not have them and have a legal basis to determine them." That was a quote from the committee's report. It was also specifically stated here that "the person directly chosen by the international organisation and with whom it is in a working relationship is not considered to be a posted person" because there was also a discussion on the posting of persons and so on. I will, of course, support the amendment bill myself. I have also found in the area of local communities that there have been certain shortcomings in the adopted law, or even today certain problems have been mentioned and highlighted, which have been or have been faced by people in the area of individual local communities. It is also a fact that, in connection with the work of people in societies, which may also be municipal councilors or saints, that we will not think in this direction that people who are members and members of the municipal council have been elected by citizens and citizens of individual municipalities would seem somewhat strange to say that they should not then act in any of the societies. There is certainly a conclusion that some have also talked about individual societies, especially those of numerical societies such as firefighters or similar, certainly elected people often come from or come from any of these societies, as so many people from elected members and members of municipal councils also recognize them as suitable persons who would represent them in a particular municipal world or eventually also in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So, I'm going to support the law on my own. I will not support the two amendments proposed. In some ways, I am surprised by this commitment to repeating the amendments' proposals, given that different decisions have already been taken on the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the amendments before us must be seriously discussed. But this time I am pleased that colleague Gorenak has frankly said that they cannot be accepted. And that was pointed out, and we talked about it on the committee. I think that, above all, Mr Klemenčič said that simply such a dictatorship as it is would be controversial because it is not precise enough and precise enough. How can the compromise take place here and in what way? It seems to me that it would make sense for a law like this to be adopted as soon as possible. However, we all know that we have already made new amendments to the same law, these are those submitted by the Commission to prevent corruption. I am sure that the power is part of this to be arranged at that time. Personally, I will say that certain, absolutely necessary controls and also the way we control are subject to those who are representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the European institutions, but only if those institutions and those parts are not already regulated within the rules that institutions have in which they then occupy their positions, in this case of course they would not have to. However, we have seen that, even in the case of Mr Thaler, there was an immediate meeting and discussion with the anti-corruption commission in Slovenia, no matter what dictatorship and how we define things at this point in the Integrity Act. So I think today is totally inappropriate, I don't know, to look for anyone in the National Assembly who would advocate the conduct of former European Member Thaler. I have not heard any who would make any public statement and in any way would not be defined as, I will say, completely inappropriate, condemning and so on. I don't think it's right for anyone to say that he's not serious today. I would have supported the contents of such amendments as this one here with ease, but I recall that it was said, so I am also surprised why you tabled, despite the warnings given at the meeting of the committee mainly by Mr Klemenčič and very clearly demarcated the amendment, which are not in fact such a way that it could be correct. I don't know why we got it back, despite warnings whether anyone was too careful if the amendment was correct in all the dictions, but we obviously can't fix it now, then probably even colleagues from the SDS in the National Assembly could get absolute support for it. It should be said that the content in some way follows this, but is too broad, too precise, so at this stage it is not possible to support these amendments, but it could happen because, according to the information I have, the next amendment will be addressed at the next meeting of the National Assembly, so that we have the opportunity to deal with this in the new process of amending the law. But I strongly reject any instigation to hide in this any intention of defending such conduct. In fact, we have very different people in the bodies of the European Union, not just with one option but with the other. Lobby things are extremely developed in Brussels. What has been happening and what is happening is, I think, extremely important for the European institutions themselves, especially the European Parliament, to imagine how to get what they declare to be eradicated, any kind of corruption or such, but at the same time to have an open scene as we all know that it is in Brussels – I think 17,000 registered lobbyists, that is, hunters are called to place certain amendments on their behalf. This, of course, is now something that is probably significantly above the level of what we can discuss here today in the Slovenian National Assembly. So that the problem is certainly great and walking in these matters, we must all be aware, it is very on the verge. We all meet in one way or another with certain people who want to exercise their interests in one way or another, but it is clear that there are no excuses in this case when, of course, we are in favour of this or anyone would be willing to benefit from it. I think Mr Thaler has violated matters in this respect and it is also right that he has resigned.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Since the three have applied for the debate in the meantime, I propose that we ask all those who still want to discuss applying. Mr Preseknik has the floor first as the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must point out that, last year, when the law was passed, we drew attention to some of the things that would come true by the adoption of this law. This was also pointed out by many congregations after the marriage took place. But not to give any impression now, according to the opinions of the parliamentary groups, I say that only one parliamentary group is one that is anti-corruption-oriented, I assure on behalf of the applicants, as first-signed, that the main purpose of maintaining the fundamental objective of the basic law is to be respected. And I reject all the other findings that are going in the direction that we've submitted to some lobby, what I know to which municipal, municipal, and I don't know what else. In order to argue that the anti-corruption commission does not support these proposals, I must make it clear — this is also evident from the report of the home labour force — that this part, which is a coordinated proposal in the report, as a complementary proposal for amendments to the law, also has the support of the anti-corruption commission. The fact is that there are municipalities where, in some cases, half of the members of the municipal council are in one way or another subject to the provisions of the law, which have proved to be completely meaningless in practice. And I'm sure that's the basic reason that with 75 signatures of colleagues and colleagues we've joined the debate, and, I'm sure, at the end of the day, we've adopted these amendments to the law. Now for the amendments. These two amendments were already in the basic text of the amendment. Today's debate has also shown that some clear solutions are needed in the field of European officials and other employees in the institutions of the European Union, those sent there by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Slovenian National Assembly. The motioners themselves have also found that the dictatorship proposed by the amendment has not yet been fully met and that smaller adjustments are certainly needed. Therefore, in my personal capacity as the first-signed proposer, I propose that these two amendments be supported and that the drafters of the amendments, together with the Government and the Anti-Corruption Commission, prepare appropriate solutions in the preparation of the texts or amendments for the third reading. Regardless of how the majority will decide, and given that we have another law that has already been introduced, changes to the same law are the fact that these things will have to be settled. The first opportunity is now, and I hope that we will do it properly, depending, of course, on the majority. As first-signed among the applicants, I am, of course, pleased that, up to this point, there is agreement on the necessary changes as to the majority of them. Once again, I assure you that the basic purpose, namely the fundamental objective of the basic law, of acting anti-corruption, is to preserve this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much. To avoid reflection on these two amendments, I would like to explain that where the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption with its jurisdiction may have intervened, the current Article 45 of the Act contains a clear description of the scope of the officials affected by this Act in relation to the obligation to register property, namely who are the officials who are obliged to report the property. It is therefore laid down in Article 45. These are "the Members of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, where their rights and obligations are not otherwise regulated by acts of the European Parliament" and attention, "and other officials from Slovenia in European institutions and other international organisations". So where the jurisdiction and the competence of our independent body go, this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the jurisdiction is established. The amendment, as stated in the proposal to report on the property situation of officials and servants from the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions and other EU bodies and other international institutions deployed in these institutions, on the basis of a decision of the Government or with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly, points out that the work where jurisdiction is possible is already covered by the current provision of the law determining who the officials bound by this Article are. The following facts must be taken into account. When we talk about posted persons, i.e. employees and officials, it is for persons who, on the basis of an invitation to tender or invitation from these international organisations, are required to be sent by the State authority in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the Assignment of Persons to International Civilian Missions and International Organisations. However, the referral means that this person remains in a working relationship with the Slovenian state or other authority. And if they are officials, they are subject to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, so they must also report on the property situation. However, if they are public servants, of course they do not need to be reported – they are soldiers who are deployed to missions, police representatives who are deployed to missions, etc. So the officials who are posted are required to report on the property situation. Of course, for other employees, it would be unreasonable to intervene in their position because they remain in a working relationship in the Republic of Slovenia and our public servants do not have to report on the property situation. Other persons - here I would like to emphasise, and this is also in the Government's explanation, and the President of the Commission for Preventing Corruption has made it clear that the Commission does not have the authority to oversee the assets of the European institutions' officials, who are chosen by the same or by international organisations, who are appointed by them themselves - in this case it is not a matter of posted persons and the jurisdiction of our country does not extend to these persons. Who, for example, are such persons elected by the National Assembly as candidates? For example, on the basis of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, it is the national representative in Eurojust, the judge in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg and so on. After the election of each institution, these people are independent officials, conclude a working relationship with this international institution and must explicitly comply with the rules applicable to these institutions. Why are our MEPs also subject to regulations? Since we in Article 9 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on their situation, on the termination of the mandate of a Member, on the incompatibilities of the function with other functions, on the question of parliamentary immunity and on other issues specifically addressed, we have stated that the rules of the European Union are applicable and, if they are not specified, the rules applicable to Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall apply to them subsidiaryly. These are the arguments set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the arguments that the President of the Commission also took up in the debate. And we have just said that where our jurisdiction over posted officials goes, the provisions apply as officials in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the duty to register assets. Where they are appointed in the European institutions, there is an expert assessment that there is no jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia. On this occasion, I would like to confirm the opinion delivered by Mr Preseknik on behalf of the applicants. The basic intention of Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which of course does not apply only to local level, also applies to national level. Officials who are more than 5% involved in an individual business entity – they or their family members – are prohibited from doing business with the contracting authority where such an official is employed. And this contracting entity is operating under the Public Procurement Act. We keep it completely. There's no exception. As we decided unanimously after the consultation, both the Government, the proposers and the Commission to prevent corruption. Because the Commission has made it clear that it does not want to make decisions about exceptions in individual cases. However, the provision of Article 35 was unclear at the point where it was possible, when the Public Procurement Act could be applied, to consider that they could not run for funds also by those persons, legal persons where officials or their family members were involved in management bodies. This has also been true in societies such as members, presidents and so on. Here we have written the provision in unclear terms and it has also been the subject of different interpretations. It was not considered that, in this case, when it comes to distribution of funds to companies on the basis of calls for proposals, they could not run for these funds if the president of the company is also a member of the municipal council or an official. Therefore, this had to be corrected and amended and a vague provision, of course, made clear. Which, of course, is right. And the government, as a proposalr, will always respond to such problems. In just one word, I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members who have used the words that it is a bluffing law, that the law is blind, to one fact. Of course, the law may lay down individual practices as prohibited at systemic level. For the first time, the integrity law has arranged lobbying, which has proved to be extremely important below. However, laws can never prevent individuals from acting on their own. However, it is right to regulate the pursuit of unacceptable practices in order to define individual behaviours as unacceptable as harmful as those that cause harm to the public interest. And this is what the new law on integrity and the prevention of corruption has done. The Independent Anti-Corruption Commission has made it possible to sanction and prosecute such crimes. And so the last case of inadmissible lobbying – I think you've forgotten to connect things with each other. Lobbying in this country on a systemic level until the adoption of this law was not regulated. Lobbying is defined in a special chapter by the adoption of this law. The powers of our commission to prevent corruption in this area have only been given this law for the first time. Its conduct in cooperation with the European institutions is legal and correct because we have given it systemic grounds. By condemning unacceptable conduct, we can only ensure that there will be no such conduct, not only by condemnation, but also by appropriate persecution. I stress that the law is not bluffing, the law is concrete and the Commission has been given appropriate powers in the process of persecuting unacceptable conduct. This is actually a better thing than some Members would like to admit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I would like to ask if we can return to the debate on Articles 4 and 5 and the amendments following the declared debaters. Mr. Anton Anderlich will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u44	There's some illogicality here today. If marriage were really so good – and I believe it is necessary to defend it – then of course we would not have two changes in the procedure already. Right, if that's the case. And the fact is, where there is will, there is the way. And don't tell me, please, that these paternalist statements, like you say, "we've already discussed all of this on the committee, but what do you have here now to discuss", and we are not all members of the committee. Is this the National Assembly that's taking laws or what? Please! And don't tell me that all those who are quoted in this story are different, and that religion has another jurisdiction and so on. It is not in the European Union of jurisdiction which does not apply to all nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who are involved in the functions or in any of the bodies and organisations of the institutions of the European Union. But if something's not right, it's a national arrangement. If we have a marriage here on the table, we can arrange it the way we think. It is right for the European Member, the Member of the National Assembly and, if you wish, the Councilor or the mayor of the municipality, where all go to direct elections to citizens and citizens, to have the same status and to have the same order of affairs. And there's no doubt here. Therefore, there is a great mystery about this amendment — it needs to be taken over and studied. I strongly reject all claims when you say the Commission doesn't want to make decisions and so on. But who is the commission that doesn't want to decide the things that are laid down by law? And if we go back, let's go see who did the most work on this marriage besides you, Minister. Not the Commission, not even the Secretary of State at the time and then the Commission and so on, and now the Commission is putting itself in a situation where it does not know, does not want to implement the law, cannot. I'm in favour of where he can't be studied, but not for the commission or any other body to decide – we actually have an epidemic in Slovenia, after all the ministries and authorities in this country, when something can't be done, it doesn't fit anyone – we need to change the law. And we change them and we change them and so on. I am not saying that we do not improve them in many cases, but there are also cases where something is not being done, but this is not only in this mandate, far away from it, it is a disease that is actually present since this country is established. And perhaps it would be useful to establish some legislation in what area that would be more permanent, which would give citizens and citizens in advance the idea of how to act in what area to organize themselves, so that they could prepare themselves and, if you want, even when it comes to the Law on Construction of Buildings, which is the most frequently amended law, I can see again on the web pages to get into the process in the near future, and how many times have we changed it?Oh, my God! The greatest hero in this area was Janez Kopač, when he was minister and other ministers. I believe that this is difficult material, but imagine how this is for citizens and citizens, for entrepreneurs, for the economy which must enforce this law. And that is why I say that there will be no harm here if we simply agree here that this must be arranged for everything as I have started. For me there is absolutely no difference between those elected in Slovenia for Europe or for functions in Slovenia, because they are residents of Slovenia, they must be subject to both European legislation and local legislation. And if this is in any case stricter, different from the one in the European Parliament or at the European level, it does not mean that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have been sent on behalf of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to perform for them and for all others in the European Union can be treated in a milder way than those in the municipal council, mayors, MPs or anyone else in Slovenia. That's an argument I don't accept. Why did the SDS stubbornly make the same amendment back so it wouldn't fix it? I understood Mr Gorenak's need to accept it, but it can also be corrected, supplemented, clarified that it will not then come to the fact that the Commission does not want to make a decision and does not want to – I mean, the Commission cannot put itself on the situation if this is regulated by law. [[...]] But if he is not competent, then he has nothing to do with it, let him who is competent handle it. So it's not a dilemma here. But if he needs some kind of authority, but it can't be at some subjective level, because then – of course, these days it's the most modern word that doesn't apply to all the same rules, laws and the like. And here, I'm afraid that by not trying to find until the third reading a better solution, to try to create some impression, unconsciously, I'm convinced that unconsciously, that anyone can get out of this. I am sorry that after this law was already under way, this current case came from 10 days ago. This really did not have any effect on me when this law was being examined, and it had nothing to do with it, since we had already agreed that the law should be amended. However, if a specific warning has also come during this time that there may be something else that needs to be looked at in order to be better regulated, so much better. I don't see any obstacles in doing this. So, as I'm told, this polarization, it seems to me, and this rejection of everyone, it's the wrong impression, and so I think we need to listen to the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. In my opening statement on behalf of the Group of Members, I mentioned Article 6, point 4, which was then quoted twice, three times. There are officials and officials who are subject to this existing basic law, and there are already Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament and, of course, other officials who work in the European institutions and other international institutions. So this law also applies to them, unless, of course, it is otherwise regulated by the acts of the European institutions. I can say that with at least certain European officials, we have also wondered what this provision is like or what their obligations are in practice. And I can say that we have been informed that all European institutions are regarded as having to report their assets to the institution in which they are employed. In short, all these officials have to report it. And these data are not only reported, of course, but then verified, controlled, etc., which means that all these officials working in the European institutions are still in control of their assets. Of course, there is always an exception, but this does not mean bad marriage or something else. I will not personally support the amendments, nor will I, because it has already been reported to us today that we have already worked in the basic law by writing the amendments on our knees. And that today we will not be writing new amendments on our knees, I propose that we reject the amendments, that we adopt a new law and possibly, I say, we prepare any changes for the next novel, which is already in the process, and that we clear the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Let me start by saying that I support these amendments because they are necessary. This has proved to be true in recent days. I also support the content of the law, clearly, because I want everything, but really everything, to be equal. For everything, for both the Municipal Councillor and the Member of the National Assembly, the Member of the European Parliament and for those sent from Slovenia or elsewhere by any other procedure, however, to the European institutions. Those who go to the European institutions, that moment, so, Madam Honourable Minister, speak as if they had nothing to do with Slovenia. Figo. Here in this House we confirm them and if we confirm them here, they are still subject to Slovenian regulations. They still have to apply and they have to respond to Slovenia. They weren't confirmed at some intergalactic choir. And that's why it has to apply to everyone. And it is no wonder that a Slovenian representative will never represent the positions of Slovenia, which he must. Of course, if he sees his own tree in that forest, he must always see it. It is with such interpretation that you give these people the feeling that they no longer have anything to do with Slovenia. That's wrong. And, of course, they are then subject to some other status, that they are untouchable, which is even the problem in Slovenia, lately people who are untouchable appear at one time or another. The good news is that they have proved to be untouchable, and that nothing should be done to them, some have stopped once left, and once to the right so forward, even because they have the status untouchable, even in the judiciary it appears. I would say, however, that this law, which is now in force, is typical of Slovenian space, especially in recent times, when the legal basis is so laid that it is a network for sardines and whales are happily sailing by. This is so done that the whales do not look back on what kind of sardines they catch. Also in the past, I am talking about the past, the Commission has shown to prevent large-pomp corruption, "see, that municipal official is also the president of the small-animal society, and the municipality has directed him money". Yes, please, come on! Be satisfied that anyone else wants to be president of such a society and take their money and their gas to drive somewhere. And when there's a change, then let's make this change so it's the same for everyone that we don't have cases again when we figure out that we're past it. Now I can't get past the debate of my well-respected colleague Brunskoletova, who is suddenly surprised that something is not going together in her area. There is no way that the president of a fire company could still be a municipal official. Yes, about a year ago, when we adopted this law, she advocated such a solution as to smoke! And she wondered how we could think differently when we pointed to something else. And now it's happening exactly the same. You don't want European officials, but we had a strange case a week ago. I would like none of Slovenia to be with me, because I don't think everyone has been identified yet. Because if what they are saying in Brussels is true, then they will have to find out what the whole islands have been getting for making certain decisions. But I hope that one comes, they'll be more real. And now it's happening the same way. Last year, you claimed that this must be the way it is for us to capture the presidents of the fire brigades at the local level who are trying and working. They should be under great control by the anti-corruption commission because they did not gain anything except that the wider communities helped. Now the same is happening for European officials – you do not want to accept this because you think they deserve a special status. It's just amazing, like they're untouchable caste. They are subject to another jurisdiction. They came from Slovenia, we confirmed them in Parliament, because, as I said before, they were not confirmed at some intergalactic assembly, they are still confirmed here. This is exactly the same as, say, in the case of confiscation of property to those who have come to this by strange procedure. This is not possible in Slovenia because human rights apply and I do not know what all of them are. In Serbia, however, they settled the matter quickly. But it's not possible with us. Interesting! And we're looking at them maybe a little bit with strange eyes. I will, of course, support these amendments because they are necessary, but of course the law also, and I hope that the law will improve further, that it will be valid for all, so that it will not be untouchable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u49	Mrs. Renata Brunskole asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I am sure that my fellow Member, Mr Rudolf Petan, did not convince myself of my debate last year, that I have so much advocated this whole matter. I'm sure not in this form, as he put it, a hundred percent. But I don't blame you, because we all still have the right to debate democratically. But it is right to discuss and mention who is really convinced of who is suddenly surprised. I mentioned this mainly because I heard about some of the representatives of some societies, especially firefighters. It is interesting, however, that even when there is a debate on firefighters, not everyone always discusses them so terribly, even though I think they are very much supported by everyone in Parliament. Otherwise, I would stress, in relation to the findings concerning the adopted law a year ago, and now with corrections that have happened in the past, that some law had to be amended and amended. And I am sure that in the entire history of the functioning of the National Assembly it has always been so and in the future it will always be, because it will always in some way prevail over a political decision or any change in this direction. So, Comrade Petan, I don't blame you for almost condemning me here in the National Assembly. But I'm sure you didn't mean as badly as it sounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u52	Nice greetings, Vice President, distinguished minister, colleague and colleague! I am pleased that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is on the agenda and that in the Slovenian People's Party, as proponents, we have also been able to obtain the signatures of a number of colleagues and colleagues from the National Assembly, to correct what we indisputably wrote or otherwise in the last year, or, if possible, to anyone who thought so, to overlook in this law, to extend control over municipal councillors, to saints of local communities in connection with their activities in cultural, firefighting societies and others, we have gone very far beyond some measure of good taste, and that we have in some way triggered a genuine wave of discontent and also renounced the various presidents of societies, and that we have somehow wanted to prove to these people that we do not want socially active people in public life. This correction has been made, done with the great support of other colleagues and colleagues, or supported by it, so I am sure that the basic text of the law will go through. I think that in this country today we have this problem of dealing with delinquency actions at the wrong end, and that we want to do the same in the black work law and also in the announced building law, mainly by extending the circle of those surveyors, the circle of those supervisors to save this country. I am firmly convinced that we should take this path towards areas where irregularities are actually happening and where things are successfully resolved. That is why I am going to support this amendment myself, and I think that it is really like my colleague Anderlič said it is time for us to find out by the third reading then whether there is really something wrong with these amendments, and that we are trying in the National Assembly, at least in this area, where I think we are united, that these irregularities should be monitored in this way, sanctioning that we do. Otherwise, I fear that a number of the implications of these laws will be, even in this way, we have said that lobbying will be arranged, that this expansion of the circle of suspects or supervisors will build a better policy integrity, I fear that this path is questionable, and that it will be really problematic until the rule of law in this country begins to function in the full sense of the word. And when there is no easy and very effective solution, I don't know, 12, 20 drivers who sleep in jail overnight, when we successfully punish a felon who is not tied to the belt, when we know how to arrest a suspect of economic and other crime, we never clear this up, or at least so far there are no epilogues. We have very strange cases in politics as well. Due to the previously mentioned association with colleagues and a look at the glass, one of the ministers has accessed the glass, but I think it is in the interests of this country and also the integrity of the policy to clarify whether everything was in Ultra as it had to be in relation to one minister, whether it was all right to hire this NPU, or whether one of the ministers, the minister did well in the purchase of cars, paid taxes, again, but I don't know, two drivers from ministers were fined for the wrong driving, and we punish them too quickly, and these people paid the fine. I think that we will really build integrity in politics when the legal system is fully operational, when we know ourselves, those who bear public functions really come as built-up personalities with some integrity. However, where these errors are apparent and made, the State or its repressive authorities will make sure that the matter is settled in a normal, timely manner. Like I said before, I'm not moving away from this darkness. Let us focus on the key issues and whether the president of the local community or a member of the local community should also be in a society, and therefore we will hinder the financing of some societies, is certainly a matter that must be excluded from our legal order. Such people need to be stimulated to operate there. Let me get this straight. I am pleased with the support of the law, which was involved in that part, which was also aligned with the coalition, with the Ministry. However, I think it would be right for us to deal with these matters in a responsible and also without great political interlocutors. If the matter is well done in the current order, it is fine, if not, but I would not be afraid, and I think it is essential that, above all, the responsible and the holders of functions, such as the European Members and all these Members of the European institutions, we also take them under the supervision of the small-minded, like the rest of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted Madam Minister and colleague! For those who like to moralize and wonder who should have imagined it, I will briefly say that, some 16 years ago, Jacques Delor in the European Union had launched a major scandal, which is 16 years ago, when he said that more than 75% of national laws would occur in the European Parliament, namely in 2000. The year 2011 is today. That is to say whether you are wondering how much national legislation actually arises in our national Parliament or who is affecting the creation of legislation that we are simply adopting here in a certain way. This is of course very interesting, I think, and he should also have known that there are more than 4 thousand organisations in the European Parliament that affect all these decisions that arise and the adoption of laws or that there are more than 20 thousand registered lobbyists. We have seen on one of the websites that we currently have about 28 registered lobbyists as a result of the adopted law. These lobbyists are very widely registered more or less after their activities, which is, for example, not the case in the European Parliament and the European Union, because lobbyists are very specialised. All recorded and coded activities. These are business and professional associations, which are 614: advisory companies specialised in European affairs, 195 interest groups and NGOs – 257, regional representations – 153, national associations’ representations – 155, economic chambers’ representation – 40, employers’ associations’ representation – 31, unions – 29, agricultural associations – 34, church associations and others – 28. Last but not least, be aware that in the European Union, out-of-European countries are also lobbying and have, say, the United States of America-registered 19 organisations, Switzerland 4 and, we wouldn't believe, Serbia 5. Every thought and moralization anyone can imagine is superfluous. I think it is quite good that we all imagine ourselves because the rule of law itself will never work, but each of us is in one way an article that in one way or another affects the possibility of the realization and realization of this country. If my colleague Kolarič said that the amendment was somehow made on his knees, I fear it would be good, despite the substantive justification of this amendment, to reconsider and see how and how, because the matter is very complex. Of course I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you. Two short answers. First of all, as far as firefighters are concerned, all of whom are expected to be supported, as previously used by the honourable Member of the SD as a justification. You know, given that the actions are speaking, I would remind you that at the time of the adoption of the last two budgets, we have proposed an amendment to prevent the firefighters from being harmed because you went to the Ministry of Defence in the coalition to take the money and to ignore the fact that you also hit the firefighters. Unfortunately, our amendment was transported and over-voted. So when they talk, things are a little bit different. Second of all, it's a little over-pathetic. Earlier, an honourable member of the SD said very loudly, "We will not write the amendments on our knees." I think it's more of a problem after what we've tried so far, that apparently the amendments were adopted on their knees at a committee meeting, on their knees before the anti-corruption commission. I must say that I fully agree with Mr Anderlich that, when it comes to the legislative process, the anti-corruption commission is in charge of the National Assembly. We can listen to her opinion, but this cannot be a chronic argument, since the National Assembly, by its law, establishes this commission and gives it certain powers and has the right to do so, in accordance with the Constitution. And if I go back to the point now, this amendment substantially reshapes the law so far, because it also captures that part of the European Union's officials or senior staff that has not been covered by the law so far. In fact, the law now covers only those in which the appointment is completed in the country of Slovenia, and our amendment also covers those in which the state of Slovenia, the Government or Parliament as the proposer, and then those institutions carry out the appointment. And here's the core of the story. These people, whom you then claim to be there in institutions, that they are not representatives of Slovenia, that they are independent of it, so they do not just come there. These people do not fall into the institutions of the European Union as mature pears, because of some of their special qualities, but because they are transferred there by the institutions of the state of Slovenia. And we can learn as much as we want, their conduct, including their possible corruption, still have a bearing on the reputation of the State of Slovenia in the eyes of everyone in the European Union. So in this work they no doubt represent the state of Slovenia, whether we admit it to ourselves or not. That is why it makes sense for this to be settled in this law, because you have warned, some – yes, Europe has it in order – that each institution does it for itself. Yes, but if you look at the statements made by the representatives of the European Union, you will see that they rightly point to the inefficiency of such control within the institutions themselves, because they are not bound to the country of origin, because they are confined to an environment outside which no one knows or can know about this information, it begins and ends there and is therefore not effective. For this reason, this amendment of ours would not only make sense, but also be in line with the warnings of many European Union officials, you can see for yourself if you are going to look at their statements on the websites now. And to the end. Of course, we are not saying this because see if, in my work now that I am familiar with some of the data from, say, the previous mandate, I can only see that any official here has made it possible or even done directly something that is a corrupt act after all European acts, then no one will convince me that now at the level of the European Union will do something significantly different. The old saying says, "What the little one learns, the big one knows."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss these two articles and the amendments to these articles? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 21. On the agenda, this is a proposal for a resolution on strategic orientations for the development of Slovenian agriculture and animal life by 2020 under the auspices of the Committee. You're feeding for the morning. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. There are no government representatives. They will have an opportunity to get to the floor during the debate. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Franc Bogovic, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u58	Good afternoon, fellow classmates! I think the ministry will join us later, and allow me to speak first on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The Committee shall be held at its 28th session. 3. Considered the motion for a resolution as the working body of the mother. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, the Agriculture and Rural Council and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. While members of the Committee supported in principle the priority programming guidelines and the strategic objectives of the motion for a resolution, the debate also supported the discussions. Members also assessed that the document is well structured, submitted at the right time and leads to an awareness of how important agriculture as a strategic sector is also from the point of view of the existence of the State. The main part of the debate was aimed at implementing a resolution that could not live without implementing documents and which would only show how serious we were when adopting this act. On the basis of these, it will only be possible to follow up on the implementation of the resolution in order not to remain just one of many, otherwise well-prepared, documents that are not being implemented in practice. It was further pointed out that some of the guidelines should be more precise, as it is difficult to determine where the line is between general and binding guidelines. The latter guidelines should also define the relationship between agriculture and energy in a way that clearly states among the objectives that Slovenia will protect agricultural land from planting crops for energy and biofuel production. Similarly, plant protection products with regard to which the draft resolution states that appropriate measures will be taken to reduce the risks and impacts of the use of plant protection products. It is noted that such a dictatorship is not sufficient and that Slovenia should adopt more radical positions on this issue and clearly define further reductions in plant protection products between operational objectives. The members of the Committee and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food did not object to the proposals and were therefore taken by the Committee in its amendments, which are reflected in the report below. It was further pointed out that Slovenia should clearly be aware in the resolution that we are opposed to the production of genetically modified organisms and thus show that we are in the coalition of those European countries which oppose genetically modified organisms. Some members of the committee objected to the notion that anything labelled with GMOs was harmful and that such production should be rejected. The only criterion on the basis of which decisions can be taken may be scientific analysis. With regard to further explanation, the Committee did not adopt that proposal for an amendment to the Committee. It is also highlighted how programme guidance can be successfully implemented, taking into account the fact that its implementation is linked to the financial capacity of the budget, which will not be modified by 2012, and the EU financial framework for the common agricultural policy has not yet been defined. The text of the motion for a resolution also does not show the positive consequences for farmers or how bureaucratic barriers to agriculture will be addressed, how agricultural legislation will be simplified to make it more friendly to farmers, what tax policy towards rural areas, what models will support small farmers and so on. These are all questions which, according to some members of the Committee, should also be identified by the resolution tabled and not only by sub-legislative documents. Representatives of the Agriculture and Rural Council, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, also participated in the discussion, which supported the motion for a resolution, with the representative of the Agricultural Institute believing that the document submitted was quite general, as it merely indicated the objectives. Ways to bring them to pass, but they're still inconsequential. Some goals are also contradictory and all of this is impossible to follow. For example, increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and related industries in the context of further globalisation and rising price fluctuations in the EU, taking into account many limiting factors such as small farms, small areas, the age of agricultural producers, agri-climate conditions and the like, and our disfavor for change, will be difficult to achieve. In their view, food safety targets will also be difficult to achieve, as we will simply not be able to have everything at 200,000 hectares of agricultural land. It is therefore likely that a more precise strategy will have to be drawn up. A new strategy will also have to be adapted in the area of self-sustainment and agriculture to what we have the conditions for. The Committee has identified and adopted amendments to the parliamentary coalition groups summarizing the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services. In view of the amendments adopted, a supplementary motion for a resolution incorporating amendments is prepared [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u59	Mr. Bogovich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u60	The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! After the period of social change and Slovenia's integration into the European Union, we can talk about coming into the agricultural field at a time when we can actively participate in the development of the common agricultural policy between 2014 and 2020. In order to apply our principles, however, we need an appropriate document on which we can also be a serious interlocutor in which we defend our views. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the motion for a resolution on strategic directions for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food by 2020 is a very good basis for the implementation of Slovenian agricultural interests in the common agricultural policy within the European Union. This is a strategic document which provides a framework for decision-making on Slovenian agricultural policy, but of course this document processes an assessment of the problems and, above all, aims and strategic orientations. If we look at the importance of agriculture in Slovenia in grave terms, we find that gross added value is comparable to European value. Agriculture in Slovenia represents 2.4% of gross value added and agriculture in the European Union reaches around 1.7%. If we look at the share of employment in Slovenia, we find that this is 8.6%, in the European Union it is significantly smaller, it is 5.4% of the workers in agriculture. It is true, however, that both shares are declining due to the rapid development of non-agricultural activities. The fact is that in Slovenia we face adverse natural conditions, as 60% of our area covers the forest, we have less than 30% of agricultural land, of which 75% are in areas where the situation is less favourable for farming. Since 1990, structural changes have also been taking place with us. This is about greater concentration and, above all, the specialisation of agricultural holdings. The number of farms is decreasing, while we are facing the growth of other larger farms. The scope of agricultural production is still highly dependent on weather and climate conditions. It is true, however, that the negative consequences of price, cost pressure on agriculture have been mitigated mainly by direct subsidies to producers. So in the future, our most important goal is definitely food security. This can be achieved mainly through stable production and stable production and economic conditions in agriculture. The fertility of soil and the size of agricultural land is very important. This is also a topic that we are trying to define very precisely in the new Agricultural Lands Act. It is extremely important for the economic situation in agriculture to maintain subsidies at a similar level as we will have until 2013, even after 2014. Of course, the competitive capacity of agricultural holdings and food is of great importance to us in all these agricultural lands. Strengthening agri-food chains and identifying domestic products through national quality schemes is certainly something that is extremely important for the continued competitiveness of our agriculture and agro-food. We have already adopted specific legal solutions in this area. The sustainable use of production potentials and the provision of agriculture-related public goods is, of course, something that provides us or should also provide us with future generations of existence. Indeed, it is impossible to face the possibility of overloading our agricultural land with a wide variety of phytosanitary means and other pollution, for then we lose a remarkable potential in the long run. Of course, the potential for agricultural and rural development is also to ensure coherent and socially sustainable rural development. A balanced process, an end to farming by increasing and strengthening future farms is something we welcome in the Group of Social Democrats in this resolution. We will support the resolution, as I said, in the parliamentary group, and we believe that it is a truly extremely good starting point for the further development of agriculture in Slovenia and for the active policy of Slovenia in the common agricultural policy in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we assess that the Republic of Slovenia urgently needs a document which, in the medium term, defines the development of Slovenian agriculture and food. The situation in Slovenian agriculture is not good at this time. The volume of production is decreasing, prices of agricultural products are falling, the overall economic performance of agriculture has also deteriorated, external trade in agri-food products is decreasing and could even be listed. The resolution that we are considering today has already begun to be drawn up in the previous mandate. We are pleased that today's document was also made on the basis of the findings of the predecessors of today's minister, the title is very significant – Ensure.si food for tomorrow. The fact is that Slovenia is at a crossroads in the area of agriculture. Quick and resourceful decisions are needed. The document is extremely optimistic and the fact is that the Slovenian farmer expects it and also needs it. We believe that this resolution will actually serve as a basis for helping the Minister and all his successors to reverse the trends we are witnessing today. This is a rather general document that only points to objectives. After all, the roads are somehow routed, but they are still quite inconsequential. The most important point of the resolution is certainly the competitiveness of agriculture. Statistics reveal a number of limiting factors, small farms, small areas, the age of farmers, the agro-climate situation and, of course, a range of other restrictions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, above all, maintaining the competitiveness of agriculture while further globalisation and increasing market price fluctuations in the European Union will be what they will be doing in the agriculture ministry in the coming years. As far as self-sustainment is concerned, a clear strategy must be put in place within the resolution and agriculture, of course, must be adapted to what we have the conditions for in Slovenia. Environmental protection and climate change are also very important. Of course, we must not forget the balanced development of Slovenia. It must be said that in recent years the countryside has lost its battle with urban centres and we hope that the new strategy will be geared towards addressing this problem through measures to follow up on this resolution. In the eyes of the non-agricultural public, rural areas are becoming increasingly burdened by society, and this is a fact that will have to be taken into account in the new strategy. If we want to keep farms in these areas, it will be necessary to provide these people with at least equivalent living conditions. The only thing we fear is that this resolution will remain a dead letter on paper. Let us recall that a similar strategy was made in 1993. If we look at the objectives of that day and the actual situation in agriculture today, then our concerns are quite justified. Given that this is a resolution that represents a framework and only strategic direction, which we want to have, we will also support this resolution on strategic directions for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food by 2020 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with the team! We have before us a resolution on the strategic orientations of Slovenian agriculture, which has a very significant title. I am pleased that we have started in Slovenia in the last year, since Minister Židan, to look at many of the problems of Slovenian agriculture, and above all that we have begun to stress extremely what food means, what food is – the strategic raw material of the modern world – and where all are the dilemmas, problems and problems of Slovenian agriculture, including in terms of the protection of agricultural land and the significant anomalies that are and are still taking place in this area and which do not lead in the right direction of ensuring security in this area. The strategy is a document that is very general, which in some ways shows direction for the future. It is a general text, a vision and a desired goal, we say that by 2020. And that's the right thing to do. However, we all wonder somehow what this will mean in practice, whether we will be able to enforce it, whether we will be able to do so, or whether we will actually respect it. We've already written a lot of things into strategies, and then we haven't followed that in reality. And of course, I have to say that I was surprised when in the text, which is quite extensive, I found that, in responding to the challenges facing agriculture, there was not even a sentence about, say, three problems that I consider to be marginal, but even one of the fundamentals. One such thing is any relation to the use of plant protection products, i.e. pesticides in agriculture. The second point was that there was not even a sentence in the text on the current problems related to genetically modified organisms. And the third point was that the text also, given that the strategy is concerned by 2020, did not address in any way what is happening to us every day in these days or in recent months is particularly intense, this is to the use of agricultural crops for energy and fuel purposes. I am pleased that we have adopted two amendments on the Committee and that we have completed the text on my initiative, so that the text now also has a solution that says that we will, as a vision, continue to work on reducing the use of plant protection products and following the trend towards reducing the use of plant protection products. It is also good that we have upgraded the text with a dictatorship and definition and a focus on protecting agricultural land from planting with plants for energy and biofuels. Last night, a consultation took place in the State Council, where many of us were warned that everything that is going on in this area must be frozen immediately, because uncontrolled interventions are taking place on the most vital agricultural land in Prekmurje, which will simply be occupied by aggressive lobbyists from the field of biogas plants for the cultivation of silage maize, rather than in Prekmurje farming wheat. Yesterday, serious appeals were made about what is happening in this regard, because once it is too late and when too much of Slovenian land is occupied, if I say so, and it is fuel-oriented, then it can happen that we will be hungry in cars, as some warn. I must say, in terms of food safety, it is not just quantity that matters, but quality. I hope that we will also implement the project and the establishment of a safe food agency as soon as possible, because there are certain problems in this area. And I will discuss the third proposal concerning genetically modified organisms in the debate on the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u68	Good afternoon, esteemed vice president, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with a team! I have to say that I feel very comfortable as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, how much we have been talking about this issue lately. And because I'm slowly coming into those years when I'm somewhere in the middle after where my memory reaches — some of them are longer, some of them are less – and if I look back at my memory in the late 60s, the early 70s, I know how we children slowly learned at home on the farm, how our mother and father bet that the earth needs to be worked hard, and that if you want to have something, you have to work and that we will live on bread. In the 1980s, I was first actively involved in a study of agriculture in the second half in some planned agriculture, which I think has produced good results and, above all, many agricultural crops. Then we slowly sailed in the 1990s, when we entered our country, at the same time adopted some dogmas of the liberal world, where we began to get some information that everything was resolved here because there was always enough food on the shelves and perhaps even better because it was produced outside. I intend to start with this, because after the crisis that took place in 2008 in the food sector, in the economic field, I think the whole world has slowly begun to understand the needs, the necessity of agriculture and, ultimately, the role of agriculture. I congratulate the authors on this product, and especially on their address. Very significant, as has already been said twice – Let’s ensure.You’re food for tomorrow – a little fashionable, and above all very real. And in this area, I think that we are all faced together with some fact that we need to be slowly aware of what agriculture is intended for and what these agricultural objectives are, which are multilayered, and that it is certainly a basic, increasingly important goal, this first, which is written in the title Provide food. I believe that this resolution document has well-established priority programming orientations. That the first priority is to ensure a stable productive, economic situation for agriculture. We are entangled in a wider environment and I think this is also very important in the light of the adoption of European agricultural policy. The second objective, which is written down and I think, is based on what has already been said by the parliamentary groups, restructuring and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and related industries, maintaining soil fertility and the productive potential of agricultural land by increasing, as we heard yesterday, and I also think that our common objective, the more efficient market organisation of agriculture, can be. Strengthening agri-food chains and increasing the visibility of domestic products are described as the fourth programming direction. Fifth is a socially sustainable and coherent rural development, sixth is a strengthening of the provision of public goods for agriculture in the field of environmental protection and preservation of cultural landscape, and the latter is a greater role of knowledge and its more effective transfer. I think that it is a very difficult task for us, as has already been said in this resolution document, in which, while the operational objectives for each of these programming orientations are further written, that we are really in the circles in which we are – and this is very responsible – is this political part at the national level – we will ensure this environment, which will create this stable environment for agricultural development and that, with its objectives, we also follow this. I hope, as has already been said, that these documents will be followed by all the documents required by law. As I have already said, I am pleased that we have already adopted the Agricultural Promotion Act, which is part of this second area, other priority guidelines for maintaining soil fertility and productive potential, are regulated in the Agricultural Lands Act. It is a sincere desire that we really accept these laws in such a light – if it is in Parliament of this power, knowledge – as proposed, and that we really do something to record ourselves in the history of this Slovenian development of agriculture, that we are the ones responsible for our relationship to the earth, to food, as well as to the farmer we must create conditions for normal survival. In the People's Party, we support this resolution, and we will support it, and at the same time all the efforts that are being made in this direction to achieve the objectives of life as set out in the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, Minister, fellow workers! My colleague or colleague Bogovic gave a nice opening thought. I have been reliving it myself in my life, because I am also part of agriculture in the past and also part of the present. I know all the good and bad wages. But the earth needs to be loved to be processed. If it's not in you, you can't do it. We have before us the motion for a resolution on the strategic orientations of Slovenian agriculture and food by 2020. I think we've been looking forward to this document for quite some time. I am pleased that on committees, not just in agriculture, we are talking more about agricultural issues and the development of agriculture in general. As the Minister also said, the Resolution represents a fence through which we have prepared the first points of the common agricultural policy in the Republic of Slovenia and through which we will also prepare a rural development programme. The proposed resolution has three objectives. Firstly, it should be reiterated that the area of food production in Slovenia is of strategic importance, which we will deliberately support until at least 2020. Secondly, there is no doubt that we are taking a planned approach to the development of the food sector. Thirdly, the resolution will be the basis for the preparation of operational plans for each agricultural sector to be prepared when the financial framework for the CAP 2014-2020 is adopted. Among the objectives of the resolution can be highlighted in particular to ensure food security through stable production of affordable food, quality and consumer, and to increase the competitive capacity of agriculture and agro-food. The fundamental task of agriculture, as an economic activity of particular social importance, is to ensure adequate food security. At the same time, farming also has other socially important functions, e.g. the environmental function, which has a significant impact on the image of the cultural landscape, is an indisputable role of food in ensuring human health, etc. At the same time with these guidelines, it also provides non-goods such as conservation of natural resources, protection of agricultural land, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, conservation of biodiversity and the like. This broad role most sums up the concept of sustainable agriculture. As a result of this multi-purpose role of agriculture and the ever-increasing challenges arising from the globalisation of the global economy, the increasing population and the impact of climate change, Slovenian agriculture is at a new crossroads. A new reflection is needed on what agriculture we need, what are the objectives and priorities for the future. It is necessary to define a new strategic framework for the development of agriculture and food production, which will give a new impetus to agriculture, while agricultural policy needs stability and assistance in finding answers to new questions. The definition of new strategic orientations will also be the basis for co-forming a future common agricultural policy. The priority policy orientations of the resolution are: ensuring stable production and economic conditions for agriculture, restructuring and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and related industries, maintaining soil fertility and the productive potential of agricultural land, more efficient market organisation of agriculture, strengthening agri-food chains and greater visibility of domestic products [[We have also dealt with one of the laws related to this.]] , strengthening the provision of public goods for agriculture in the field of environmental protection and preservation of cultural landscapes, socially sustainable and coherent rural development, a greater role of knowledge and its more effective transfer. These guidelines can be followed by a combination of the different actions of the first and second pillars of the common agricultural policy and state aid. As the legal and substantive framework of agricultural policy will change considerably, the draft resolution sets out conceptual definitions that have long-term strategic validity and which can also be implemented in the face of expected changes in agricultural policy. In the parliamentary group, we support a flexible resolution on agricultural development by 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and other representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome this debate and the adoption of the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food until 2020. We also believe that the title of the resolution Ensure.You food for tomorrow is just the right thing to say in a few words. Members coming from mainly agricultural regions and areas are still well aware of the integrated issues related to Slovenian agriculture and the agro-food processing industry in general. This is a problem that has arisen as a result of inappropriate, you could say, even a casual attitude towards this economic sector, to agricultural areas and to the farming population in the Republic of Slovenia in the past, as well as to Slovenian land, as the largest national wealth of our country. Only now, as food prices have risen in recent years, when we recognize the importance of quality food for our health, when we experience many times the pressures and extortion of food suppliers, we have begun to realize what food security really means and national food self-sufficiency has finally come to an end. This moment of sobriety, not only occurred in our country, is a global event and a problem that we begin to realize only when we are awakened by the fear and danger of possible food shortages or if I express ourselves a little metaphorically, only when we are hungry and empty stomachs, we begin to think seriously and only about food. And unfortunately, we have also come so far as to observe with horror that, in the 21st century, in the midst of Europe, where abundance, prosperity, such and other species are expected to prevail, thousands of Slovenians and Slovenians have begun to suffer so that we cannot afford a healthy, affordable diet. It's even so far away that our health is at risk. Frankly, the causes are complex in nature and could be analysed for days and days, but somehow they cannot be shown here now in just five minutes, but the consequences of these causes are what we fear and have led us to the moment of sobering up. While we look at all such and similar resolutions, strategies, action plans from a special point of view in the Slovenian National Party, because the past has convinced us many times that only the words on paper have been taken into account or implemented on a large scale, but often depending on daily policy or other circumstances, we are looking at this resolution very seriously and also expect everyone else to be responsible for the adoption and further implementation of the resolution principles and purposes, with only one objective, this is to ensure the food security and self-sufficiency of the Slovenian people. The contents of the resolution in question could be discussed in hours and hours. Although it represents one completed whole, it opens up all areas related to this economic sector. In any case, we could be politicising, supplementing or otherwise presenting individual content parts of the chapters, but, as has already been said, in these few minutes of the introductory presentation, I should only confirm that this resolution is also in such content, that we support the scope of the Slovenian National Party and we just want it to serve as a serious basis and a benchmark for adopting smart legislation and responsible policies in the future, and in particular that programme priorities will be binding on us as legislators and also responsible ministries, to the Government as executive authorities. In particular, it would highlight ensuring stable economic conditions for agriculture, raising the competitiveness of agriculture and related industries, making full use of the productive potential of agricultural land and socially sustainable and coherent rural development and more. Otherwise, the debate on amendments will also raise other issues and complement the content, perhaps also raise the issue of growing self-sustainment agriculture, especially remote rural areas such as Kozianska, parts of Slovenian Gorica, Goričko, Prekmurje, etc. Certainly the phenomenon that I have mentioned the last time in the consideration of the law on the promotion of food products, to which we should also pay a little more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A warm welcome to the Minister and to all three co-workers! For the last time, I said that, of course, in our club, we appreciate that the minister comes with a wide-ranging team of different associates, that we not only hear each other, but also understand what we are saying, and that we are all trying to translate those essential solutions together into legislation in a way that is best for the future of Slovenia. The topic on which we are today is certainly extremely important, necessary treatment and in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture is still firmly anchored, and in particular we would like to give special emphasis to the words that are in the working title Provide food for tomorrow, tell us why we are going and what we want. The time we live in is interesting. When we were studying Marxism in high school, there was a sentence that I don't want to quote too many times that a person has to eat, drink and dress first, and then it's art, culture, and then there's this upgrade. And in the light of the problems that are happening to the Japanese nuclear power plant, when the issue that is now the most affected, the most polluted, is, of course, purely at the top of this food story, again food, then health and everything. Everything else will be easily rebuilt, but if we destroy our environment for healthy food production, then we are in great trouble. The resolution constitutes some logical upgrade of the system from 2007 to 2013. For this period, I must say that, given that we are in a society of different, more developed countries, the citizens of Slovenia have taken it relatively well. And I am sure that if we realize most of what is stated in the strategy, we can say that Slovenia and Slovenia will not be hungry. The text of the resolution makes it easy to highlight the fact that its essence is to take into account the multi-purpose role of agriculture and to define the development of agriculture through sustainable development objectives. These objectives are certainly food safety, sustainable food production, food must be quality, accessible to the consumer, we must increase the competitive capacity of the entire agro-food chain – we still have a lot of work to do here – and we must combine this with sustainable use. The resolution provides for the upgrading of high safety, technological, phytosanitary and veterinary standards in agricultural production as well as in the production and upgrading of environmental protection standards as a priority. It is also important to highlight animal welfare as a value. We fully agree with this in the LDS. We would also add that the resolution could also have more ambitious objectives in order to seek to reduce plant protection products also because our agriculture is still far from that industrial one. Slovenian food still has healthy and good taste, at least in most cases, and is not something industrially processed. In these introductory discussions, we can also place more emphasis on organic food production, which cannot feed or feed all of Slovenia, but is a welcome market niche. We are also pleased that the resolution is doing much to increase the competitiveness of agriculture and the food and processing industry and that this is our sustainable task. However, since much needs to be said in a relatively short period of time, I would stress that the resolution does not forget the key factor, this is on people. Social sustainability and coherent rural development are also among the main policy orientations. This seems extremely important to us, because the vital and inhabited countryside is certainly an important objective of a sustainable concept in addition to producing safe and healthy food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u76	Mr. Vice President, distinguished minister with co-workers, nice greeting! Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be supported by a resolution. The resolution defines the vision and objectives of agriculture development in Slovenia in the next medium-term period until 2020. Resolutions are usually a kind of declaration, a document at the general level. When weighing and judging, it is important that things go in the right direction. I think it really represents a response to the challenges facing agriculture in the 21st century, i.e. the right attitude. The resolution focuses on taking into account the multi-purpose role of agriculture and defining the development of agriculture through sustainable development objectives. This is based on the economic, environmental and social role of agriculture. The resolution represents the social role of agriculture. The resolution is a common document of all carriers of agro-food development. It establishes a partnership in which the responsibility for development is shared by agricultural and food companies and farmers and their housing organisations, as well as by the local community, educational institutions and research institutions, and not least by civil society and, more recently, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister, with his team, has been very professional and engaged in the problems of agriculture and visions for the coming years. But, as the speaker has already said, things could be even more ambitious, for example, in self-sustainment, we do not hope to risk what our vision is 10 years from now, 20 years from now. Will we reach levels 70, 80, as experts say, which would be very important for the food safety of Slovenia? I also point out several times that agriculture is one of the real sectors of the economy. Perhaps the percentage of GDP does not represent such a high amount, but indirectly it is certainly an extremely important segment. I also often raise the issue of protection – I miss this in the resolution – before imports of low-priced and less-quality products and abroad, even though it has to be recognised that agriculture, unlike other industries, has taken a proactive role here for years and so. In this regard, we might still consider certain measures. However, these measures have already been adopted. These are: promotion of domestic crops, conservation and all the measures we have taken in relation to the conservation of agricultural land. If we take an even more proactive role here, we can say that our agriculture is looking forward to better times.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 28 May. 3. 2011. I am putting to the debate point 5, subsection 5.2, and the amendment of the Zares Group. I'm opening the application. The application for discussion shall be open. First of all, Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and other Members present! Allow me at this moment to thank you for the joint support of all of you present to this resolution, which we understand at the agriculture ministry, not as support to the ministry, this is understandable, but as support to Slovenian farmers and food production. It is also important that we are aware that this resolution, which is before you, says from the title what is necessary – We provide food for tomorrow, that we all understand that there is no document that can do miracles. This is one of the necessary steps we need to take with all the others that we are already doing. You have already noted in the debate that, despite the fact that only today is the resolution adopted that we are already carrying out individual activities, some of them have already been implemented. Perhaps the one that has not been mentioned today, but perhaps one of the more important ones, is that we have also drawn up, on the basis of the debate and preparation of this resolution, an extremely high quality position for our negotiations 2014-2020 on the agricultural budget. These negotiations are tough, they are stepping up, and therefore this general support that we are experiencing here today is extremely important to us. We are also aware that it is impossible to think that the only negotiating group, a group of agricultural administrations, is. Negotiations also take place at the level of NGOs and also at the level where our Members working in the EU Parliament and where you, honourable Members and Members, meet with your colleagues from the other European Union countries. What is equally important to know, however, is that successful negotiations in themselves do not mean that we will continue to produce food. What's the main argument? Even so far, the funds we had in Slovenia for agricultural policy have been negotiated, relatively large and you have seen that food production in Slovenia has decreased. It is therefore important that we work in all steps and in all areas at the same time. What needs to be further known is that this resolution is now the basis for us to start preparing operational implementation programmes. Some programs began to be prepared three years ago, but at some point they stopped. But they're stalled because, despite everything, the state needs a strategic document, which is a document before you. Secondly, because it was necessary to re-analyse what was going on until 2020. In particular, when we observe tools, it is necessary to have at least a simulation of financial resources, since implementation and preparation of programmes without knowing how much money we have at our disposal is actually a pure waste of time. Operational groups are now relaunched. How it will work: an analysis of the situation which is now the objective of where we want to be in 2020 and then the operational measures that we need to implement and the indicators after periods or after years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you. We've reviewed the amendments. I must say that we have also consulted in the parliamentary group on whether to prohibit the cultivation of genetic plants. And I also consulted in the home circle, but I don't have, like many aprons who say they have a garden or a farm, well, I already have a garden, but I have a brother who is an agronomist, a graduate engineer, and he also dealt with the subject of genetically modified plants. In fact, these aprior positions are dangerous. We already know who is getting deeper into this problem, that these processes happen in nature themselves, but we can also artificially encourage them. However, not all genetically modified plants are harmful or dangerous or otherwise in the negative sense of the word. We need to be very careful here, and we need to rely primarily on our expertise. It's a bit of a topic, I must say, even ideologically colored. Certain studies show that crosses and certain genetic changes can even produce plants that can also be useful. And we get to the paradox: on the one hand, we fight for as little plant protection products as possible, while at the same time banning these modified plants, and these certain modified plants allow less use of plant protection products. This is also one of the goals of this genetics. So let us really take the scientific results and not some aprioristic viewpoints as closely as possible. We will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group either.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. This amendment, which proposes a ban on genetically modified plants, is one of the three amendments tabled by the esteemed colleague Cveta Zalokar Orazem, but was not included, as was the other two, but that is why I believe it can be supported. Not because this would be an apriorous and ideological prejudice to genetically modified plants and consequently to genetically modified food, but because science has not yet known or been able to identify and ensure the innocence of such manipulations. The debate is long and I think it is preventively wise to stop the development of such farming, which is in fact all that our resolution and this strategy are working towards. This strategy is intended for quality food production. This strategy is designed to maintain and possibly increase quality areas, agricultural areas. If we strive to do so, let us also try to maintain an ecological approach to food production. In this context, of course, I think this amendment makes sense. The problem is not whether we are going to engage in farming and food production in an industrial way, but how we will ensure sufficient quantity, i.e. self-sufficiency – from which we are unfortunately very far – and at the same time the quality of this food – healthy food without doubt, suspicions or shadows of such or other manipulations. For me, the key problem is the one that was highlighted yesterday at this council by Dr. Dusan Plut. Concerned that Slovenia is on average somewhere on the average grain area per capita compared to other countries, with the world average. This must be of great concern to us. In particular, at a time when some authorities, too, plan without concern activities on agricultural or potentially agricultural areas, which naturally distance us from this objective, i.e. from the objective of restoring the self-sufficiency of the country as far as possible. So it is, for example, in our only Mediterranean part of Slovenia, which means additional value for farming in Slovenia, because unlike other Central European countries we also have a region that offers Mediterranean characteristics. It is at that part that we should take care of the maximum quality and quantity of food production, excellent food, eco food, organic crops that we could offer to the country. And why not the international market? Instead, planning continues to take place, going in a different direction. They talk about golf courses on surfaces where there are actually interesting agricultural areas, I'm talking about Sečovje, for example, where farmers themselves point out the nonsense of such ideas. I also take advantage of this debate, I know that the Minister understands this and will endeavour to prevent these crazy ideas and to remain on the track that this excellent strategy foretells. In this context, I think that caring for quality and organic food without manipulation, genetic manipulation, is also very meaningful. This amendment will be supported by our Group of Members. He disagrees with the interpretation that this is an ideological judgment. It's a matter of prudence. It's the kind of caution we need. Once science has fully agreed that genetic manipulation is possible and does not harm health, then we can also change this view, but for the time being we do not have data for something like this and we prefer to remain cautious and determined advocates of organic food and quality farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I have already said in my presentation on the position of the Group that I am pleased that we have succeeded in supplementing the text of the resolution, which we will support, on two important segments. We have completed the text in areas where very problematic things are happening to us at this time that we can be concerned about. It is right that we continue to restrict the use of plant protection products. Slovenia is on its way here. We may not be the most effective in all controls, and we have been at some points too liberal, but at least, as far as statistics are concerned, the trend towards reducing this use is noticeable, which means that this is good. Of course, I am afraid that if those in Slovenia win, they want us to produce tough maize for energy purposes on the highest quality agricultural land, then the use of plant protection products will be significantly greater in those fields, as this will lead to even greater final effects and also bring benefits. This will be a problem, and in this sense I am convinced when we spoke yesterday about agricultural land, that the problem is also the quality of agricultural land, not just conservation. We also need to maintain quality land so that we can produce quality, safety and quality food. Food, I speak, not agricultural energy plants, where we should deal with cereals and those crops that are needed for human consumption. Here I am glad that we have actually been united enough, and we are also this direction that I have missed in the text and was not highlighted enough. Here I also expressed a certain scepticism about what happened in those who participated in the drafting of the texts and what compromises they obviously had to conclude. The other thing is to protect agricultural land and protect it from planting plants for energy and fuel needs. I will now make some use of this because I simply believe that uncontrolled construction of biogas plants in Slovenia must be stopped immediately. Stop. I appeal to the Government to accept the freezing until the Ministry of Agriculture is properly involved in the procedures. They are all involved, in particular the economy and energy, and there is also consensus. But above all, on the basis of the fact that banks are happy to participate in lending these projects, because the state guarantees 15-year subsidisation of this "cobajagi green energy", I say kobajagi. If this energy were actually produced from manure, waste in agriculture and from these things, then this is really green energy. However, if it is produced from agricultural crops that will grow on the highest quality premurk plains, then it is only "cobayagi green energy", even harmful. Even, I will say, a matter that can cause great problems in the future and many have been aware of it. I am a proponent of this energy production, but such as was originally conceived as a complementary activity in farms smaller, to a lesser extent, where things will actually be used on the farm that remain as non-essential by-products and not as they were in Pirnić when the biogas plant, which now has some corn there, is not known where they came from. I hope it's from some other country and not ours. However, until the agricultural ministry receives the necessary role it must play in these procedures, this is to limit itself and tell exactly where the biogas builder will get the raw material. Whether it will be a raw material from agriculture or it will be a raw material from elsewhere. I appeal that this freeze be implemented immediately and that, as in other European countries, the agricultural ministry is also involved and that it has its role. And one more thing. We talked a lot about lobbyists today. In this area, agriculture has the highest level of lobbyists, especially in the European Union, where huge funds are shared. We also share 400 million in Slovenia for this and, of course, there are some lobbyists who actually want to exercise their interests. Even in this area I am talking about, the lobbies are the strongest, as a percentage of even the majority of those who have applied in Slovenia come from this area, and they have been very active and alive in Parliament, and I will say, they have prevented us from what good intentions are hidden behind these things. It's about the amendment. The third amendment, which is the one we have today, has unfortunately not received adequate support from the committee for the last time. I must say that I believe that Slovenia does not need to grow genetically modified plants at this time. The only plant allowed in Europe is Monsanto 810. This one's allowed right now and one potato, I think. But here it is in the process, there is no need for Slovenia to cultivate genetically modified plants. We must continue with the policy – so far we have been wise enough – the distance to this area, the expression of reservations. I hope that at the moment the genetically modified plants in Slovenia are still not there. We can be very recognizable in that. Our food can be something special because we will say that there are no such things in Slovenia. We've already done a lot of damage to ourselves in the field of feeding. The feed is unfortunately said to be 80%, which we also feed to Slovenian animals, genetically altered due to soybeans. This is where things got out. In the case of plants, I think that there is no problem in banning this, and I welcome the attitude that the minister, who has relatively quickly also identified what is happening on the European floor in this area, where the multinational Monsanto and the lobbyists are present, have been, in fact, on several occasions, not only have they been depicted as serious lobbyists and payers of various services, but they have also been prosecuted for many cases, in what way they have dealt with certain things. Such a controversial reputation is financed by studies on which we are then to decide whether to cultivate or not there is any harm in these matters. So I hope that in this sense it is right that Slovenia holds this position, that it is in the coalition of those countries in Europe that oppose the cultivation of genetically modified plants. We have been careful enough to find out how the European Union wants to leave this to the countries, but it is likely that this trend will move forward, of course with certain assurances that countries will not be left to themselves. If and when such a directive may be adopted leaving a decision on the cultivation of genetically modified plants to the countries, then Slovenia must be among those who decide not to go to this club. I'm surprised those colleagues who talk about beneficial genetically modified plants. At this point, science has not yet said the final word. As short as these things are being consumed, it is impossible to get relevant studies on such or different impacts, so it is right that we are here careful not to jump too fast, because many times has already been shown in the past, and unfortunately also in the field of food, water and similar things, which have happened many times also because of – and here I also have to say a critical word to science. Science is no longer independent. Science depends on the lobby. Science is in the service of many lobbies, and there are few independent people who are able to maintain upright attitude in some highly controversial matters and are often threatened by such things. This is not the case with us, in Slovenia, our science is very fond of this. In many segments, some also make this very public. I hope that the amendment will receive adequate support in the National Assembly, because we have repeatedly expressed this thought, skepticism and reservations to this area so far. And I don't think there's any reason not to keep it and also write it into a strategy as some direction that is in favour of quality, safe and healthy food that we're going to produce in the future in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. He's already got a replica of Mr Magajna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u86	I wasn't personally appointed, but the rules of procedure say if we recognize each other. And since I was the only one with a problem, I kind of recognized myself. If you'll excuse me? Thank you. Maybe yesterday's situation will repeat itself a little. We discussed the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black, but we talked for two or three hours about neighbourhood aid. Today, however, with regard to the resolution, they will be the main topic, apparently, of genetically modified plants. Well, let it be so, because it's just an amendment, I'm going to overrule it a little bit, just for a little while, because it's a replica and I'm limited. The European Union did not prohibit it. If this were indisputable, if all types of genetically modified plants were harmful, the European Union would certainly prohibit this and not leave it. However, it is undeniable that certain genetically modified plants, as I said before, happen in nature purely by the law of evolution, but things can also be accelerated by some artificial interventions. It is undeniably concluded that certain genetically modified plants are not harmful; this has already been established. Also on the Committee on Agriculture, the expert explained the case of the apples they cross. Yeah, hybrids. In particular, in the Law on Public Institutions, I very much oppose hybrids and in health care, and here I am, and a little bit of private public. That's the kind of hybrid I'm for. Because they can be manipulations. It could be harmful. But just the example of the apple that we heard last time on the committee shows that we can get a better quality fruit, which is more resistant, the use of plant protection products is smaller. Regarding quality we have different criteria, this is taste, nutritional value and so on. They also found that certain types of crops could make a significant contribution, not only to multinational profits, but also to the quantity of crops, while retaining a certain type of product quality. So, yes, a priori of rejecting this area and excluding it – let's be afraid, well, that's a really unscientific approach. But since Mr. Saiovic was directly quoting Marx, I'll be quoting him. When certain facts in science show up against the original thesis, some say, well, because it is true, but worse for the facts. The facts must be taken into account and scientific research.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice welcome to the Minister with the team! With regard to the amendment, matters are not as black and white as shown. However, I would like to point out that in Slovenia it is extremely difficult to follow genetically modified organisms already after the current legislation, because you need to gain a whole lot of consensus, including the neighbor's, who are prepared for neighbourhood assistance, but in this case I do not believe. Genetically modified organisms are also some response against the excessive use of plant protection products. However, it still shows caution when using genetically modified organisms, and for the time being, it probably shows that we wait, so to speak, to leave them outside our agricultural areas. There's no need for caution here, and first of all, it's to wait for what's going to happen in the world. Now there is something else about the resolution itself, which is still in need of a document at a time when in the annual reports on the state of agriculture in Slovenia we are increasingly listening to alarming data, either in relation to the loss of processing surfaces or to the declining share of self-sustainment. It is important to welcome the other measures that the Ministry has already put in place and still has a plan. It also points out, however, that agriculture is essentially an interdisciplinary sector and that it is likely to hit the interests of other ministries. For example, for good economic relations in agriculture, the Ministry of Economy is certainly responsible for the situation on the ground, of course, for the environment and space, and for the fact that everything that is growing on our plates, that is to say, everything that is harmful, must certainly be the Ministry of Health. In order for the agricultural situation not to deteriorate, people must first be interested in paying for farming, not just with subsidies, but with other things. Thus, in addition to poor self-care, these reports are particularly worrying about the extremely low proportion of farmland per capita. Certainly thank you once again to the Minister with the team who participated very actively in the consultation yesterday organised by the Globe Slovenia and the Environment Council. Even after an informal interview, I think the matter has fallen to fertile ground, and now I hope we will come from words to action. Well, great interest and the topic is still quite topical. Small agricultural areas do not necessarily have to be a problem, but according to the culture we want to cultivate on it. For example, we can't bring technology from the Netherlands, but for tulips, a smaller field is enough to sell onions, but we can't bear it. But there is one rule on the small surface of a small animal. In this area, if we are already extremely critical in the provision of pig meat, we could be partially compensated by the cultivation of small animals. Of course, some cultures are hard to afford on small farms. On the other hand, we could afford a greater share of vegetable self-sustainment, at least for the main season. I believe that it is necessary to import over winter and so on, and so on, and so on, as production is possible in greenhouses, for which in the past there was a whole bunch of bureaucratic barriers – that is, all the permits for a planter to set up. We'd rather have black and white on the same surface at the same time, that's not working. It was a stupid excuse to put a plant on a first-class agricultural land, which is not like putting another plant there. There's still going to be something growing in the first-class agricultural land in the greenhouse. However, some goals are certainly to increase the share of self-sustainment by motivating people for agriculture. I see that it is a very important segment of fair relations in the chain from the farmer to the consumer. Analyses show an extremely uninteresting purchase price in a farmer, we may still have a specificity, for example, that in milk we have 5 cents cheaper buying-in price than in comparable European countries, then, just above water, there is a food processing industry, partly with an easy way of obtaining a historical tradition; for unsolicited Yugoslav markets it was easier to produce than for domestic self-sustainment and export. Then comes the all-powerful trade, which ultimately obliterates the consumer and the biggest losers in this chain are certainly the producer and consumer. It is only here that not everything is in the hands of the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Ministry of Economy comes along here, where, at least after the discussions so far, it shows that it is still being Uncle's instead of being picked up more firmly. Reducing the loss of agricultural land – I think we have done something with the legislation so far, but the establishment of the original state is once again the interest of the farmer, no law will force someone to clean up the partially polluted land, to start perhaps for the pasture and then perhaps to re-manage it if it does not work out. Today, it has already been warned that use or, I will say, is an abuse of agricultural crops as energy for so-called green energy, as has been correctly established, which is not green. I have no objection to the use in biogas manure, manure and all kinds of waste, either from production or from processing, i.e. from industrial plants. However, we cannot allow plants to grow on the first-class agricultural land, which then end up in a biogas plant. If the trend of development goes in this direction, which is also a beautiful cover for the farmer – who would not want such farming when you harvest in the spring, then it doesn't matter what grows, because everything is green, so everything is suitable for gas: you don't have to sprinkle, do nothing and do nothing other agricultural work, but come in the autumn, you start in some big work, if possible with neighborly help again, and put in the appropriate spaces at the biogas plant, then for a year, instead of going twice a day to the barn because of all the late repairs, you just look at the counter, how much money is from the gas that came in. In biogas plants, the only thing that could be considered is land-cleaning, but strictly controlled. If we find that some land is contaminated with heavy metals and I don't know what else to do, we'd give a concession for two, three years for corn or whatever it takes at the biogas plant, because it won't come to the plate or the barn and the land could be cleared. However, it is already necessary to place strict restrictions in advance so as not to be misused and to walk, as the English say, business as mental, so as it has been so far. I would also like to place more emphasis on the quality of food, and since we are importing food items like this, where we could have more self-sustainment, let's say vegetables over the summer, it might suggest that we take another good look at them through inspection services, whether they are of adequate quality. And if not, with appropriate sanctions, convince traders to take more care of the quality of food, to see what they import, as it sounds – but not in Slovenia, but on Croatian television – when there are auctions for the purchase of meat. On Mondays and Tuesdays don't buy Croatia, not Slovenians, but big companies, then the goods are one a, there Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays fall because the rest of the remains are leftovers, and then ours and Croatians jump in and then offer at home like it's one a edge, and in fact it's not. Agriculture plays an important role in the fight against climate change, while at the same time being a victim of climate change. It would certainly indicate in the future systematic monitoring of whether in any territory, in any province, in which part of Slovenia some culture is less favourable, because then irrigation and other matters can increase costs. I strongly support the promotion of food of Slovenian origin, but at the same time I note that we have done too little in the past to protect food. First of all, the current case from Croatia, when they protect everything they can cook. For example, I saw on television the role of protecting the interstitial movement, which was very familiar to me and I saw that it was the same as the suburban movement — so as not to repeat the story of the current. In stores, it should be stressed that good labeling is not necessarily a good quality. Only this is not in the department of the Minister, but other ministers. Finally, I'm going to cheer my colleague up over there because I'm going to finish, and I'd say this document is definitely necessary. It is on a longer term, and it may need to be complemented again, and I hope that it is a good source for solving the pressing problems in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see a desire. I'm opening the application. Mr. Bogowicz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u90	Good-bye! In my view of the Slovenian People's Party, I have already said that in the Slovenian People's Party we support such a document and a general effort, which has recently been very intensive in providing self-sustainment in Slovenia and in general a certain attitude towards agriculture as sectors, including agrifood and all the impacts of agriculture. As far as the amendment proposed and related in particular to the protection of the Slovenian space against the introduction of genetically modified organisms into our space is concerned, I think it has also been exposed to the fact that, today, existing legislation, which has been tried within the framework of the legal order set out by Europe, has been written in Slovenia in such a way that we have actually protected Slovenian fields against genetically modified organisms in this area. In practice, there is really not much or anything of these genetically modified organisms due to very difficult procedures. With this, we have no reservations, no problems with such an amendment, but I think it is right that the competent, with the Minister in charge, define and tell how it is the case with regard to the European legal order in our case; otherwise, in general, the intention of this amendment is acceptable to us. In the introduction, I also said that these discussions are many, they are really necessary in our time, because Slovenian agriculture is at some great crossroads and pays in some way the price of the attitude towards this industry that has taken place in the past – and we are looking at this a few years ago or even a few decades ago. Indeed, the very own structure that comes from the period when we in Slovenia even after World War II very much crushed the size of Slovenian farms at that time probably suitable size, if family members wanted to process those lands themselves, that today is a very big problem, that there is actually a small number of farms that are for some conventional food production, which is also intended for this document. That is why I think that these are basically the objectives that are written here, as I have already said, very appropriate; in the first place the objectives that they want to create in society a general attitude towards agriculture, towards this sector, and – as I have said many times before – create the conditions in which young people will be happy to choose an honorable profession, a profession with which they will also create decent survival. And that, after all, we all together ensure that, in terms of the competitiveness of production, they are comparable to the open market on which we are today. That is why I think that the measures relating to soil fertility and related to agricultural operations, which we need to make better treatment of these areas, are correct and, in some ways, the measures already leading up to this. All these many debates, however, raise a question to which I find it difficult to answer. As I have already said, I have been monitoring this activity for at least the last 30 years very active and I know a period when, for example, in the area of the municipality of Krško from which I come, a thousand 300 people in the late 1980s were involved in the sale of milk. Today, only 50 or less people do this, and they give you more milk than they did at the time. I think we will have to focus on what is written in the title of the resolution – Let us provide food. European agricultural policy measures are often the same as what Dr. Kavčič said yesterday at this consultation, which is followed by landowners, not the goal of how to provide food, but how to provide 300, 400, 500 euros per hectare, which is paid on the basis of agricultural policy measures; or whether from this treatment at the end of some food production, the last year is the last question within the framework of the so-designed agricultural policy. In this area, I think we have a very serious task in Slovenia to consider the structure of drawing on these funds, how many measures we will try to bind to target those who produce food in order to enable the right conditions. Otherwise, in the area of agriculture, we can go to a field of romance very quickly, if I may say so, when it is really nice to look, it is nice to come to such a farm, to be in such an environment, but unfortunately, agricultural food production is far from romantic, because it is a very serious and difficult task, where it is very difficult to be competitive. I think that in the last year, also on the basis of adopted agricultural policy, which I have already said has not been adopted in us, but in the framework of the European space, in our part of the implementation of this policy has indeed taken great care to ensure that there is no more land that has grown, on the other hand, not enough measures and activities have gone in the direction of rounding up farms, increasing competitiveness and food production. When I follow all these debates and try, as long as time permits, to participate in many debates, I sometimes have really mixed feelings and I think we will soon have in this society, which I welcome, many of those who today have much to say about caring for agriculture, for agricultural land, but unfortunately, on the other hand, those who work in this business are becoming less involved. I think that in this direction the resolution document is properly oriented and in fact leads to the fact that agriculture really needs to be driven in this direction, as it is stated, that it is socially sustainable, that coherent rural development is ensured, that we cultivate some sustainable development in the right sense of the word, but we must always be aware that, in terms of self-sustainment, food production is a basic, primary task of agriculture. In this part, I want this resolution to be rescinded as a resolution through which we have faced the reality in which we are. As I have already said, in the past several steps have gone in the wrong direction. I think that today we are on a major test, I don't know if this will be an up-to-date stress test, I think that Slovenian agriculture will run a very bad test if, for example, some very organised foreign milk purchases of Ljubljana's dairy and possibly after 2015, when quotas in milk production are abolished, it is possible to find that in Slovenia it is rational that milk is sold in its factory, in its dairy Slovenian farms if it is 3, 4, 5 cents cheaper than in some remote flat part of the Netherlands, Denmark or where the conditions for production are more competitive. So I think the role and importance of agriculture, as we like to say, is multilayered. Thus, we influence the landscape, we influence the landscape, we influence the protection of water and many things, and on the other hand, the influences that come into agriculture are multilayered. And in addition to all that has been mentioned today, that multinationals have been pressured by various technologies and various interventions into this space, which at some point may also be problematic, it is even more problematic for me to see, in other areas of the economy, the area of nobility of this capital in the past. If you are so entrenched on capital, the profit-oriented capital owners will hear about our area, I fear that Slovenian agriculture will be easily destroyed and it will be very difficult to put it back on its feet. It will be significantly easier, I don't know, to buy SCT and start processes for new owners, if you want, in Slovenia and abroad, than to start agriculture if we close a farm where the herd is dissolved, and no one will manage it anymore. And those who do so with love, as Mr Jurša said, are becoming less and less. I think that we have a responsibility to really create conditions for them, to love them, but also with the conditions that will create a normal life, to do their job, and to people to do a very important task of providing enough food.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. With regard to the amendment on the use of genetically modified organisms in Slovenian agriculture, I think it should be pointed out, however, that the resolution itself on the strategic orientations of the development of Slovenian agriculture and food is of the opinion that it is possible to understand from the text itself that genetically modified organisms in Slovenia have no priority and that this is not something that would be the future of Slovenian agriculture. This resolution sets out the objectives to preserve the relevant areas of agricultural land, we also want to maintain the appropriate quality of agricultural land and also to take into account the highest standards of phytosanitary conditions under which we can treat plants. It is also extremely important for us that the objective set out in this resolution is to make it a matter of food security, which is understood as safety on the basis of safe, healthy nutrition and also of adequate quantities. We can both reach these surfaces if we truly preserve them in the future. However, if we do not want to protect agricultural land and lose the best agricultural land, we will be able to come to such a situation at some point in time that if we want to have an adequate income position of agricultural holdings, we will have to produce crops that will be profitable enough to survive on extremely small areas. The more we reduce agricultural areas, the more likely we will have to interfere with artificial plants, which could then lead to agriculture living in Slovenia. However, this resolution speaks in the opposite way and I think it is appropriate and right to make it more clear in such a strategic document that the cultivation of genetically modified organisms is not our priority. To try to find a text that is also properly designed to do so is certainly something that we can also write down in this resolution. But what really matters to me is that nowhere in this document is there a priority for such plants. I think that we should be able to think about areas for which we do not already have the right answer, what we can actually grow in water protection areas; whether it is possible to achieve by science the cultivation of plants that will be harmless to health and maintain healthy drinking water is one of the challenges ahead. This is one of the things that we will certainly talk about in the future, when we will also be preparing implementing acts for this resolution. Last but not least, we are also facing climate change. The answers to climate change will also have to be sufficiently clear so that we can again provide enough healthy and even sufficient food in Slovenia if we want to talk about self-sustainment and also adequate agricultural development in the future. Climate change is one of those issues that we are also talking about in this resolution. This is a very important question, and I hope that with all the other measures, which are mainly related to the construction of irrigation systems and also to the selection of relevant plant species across specific geographical areas, because climate conditions are more suitable for the cultivation of certain plant species, we will come to the conclusion that these climate changes also do not require certain specific genetically modified organisms, because at some point, if we do not have exactly any response to what is happening in nature, we will probably have to cut them artificially. I don't think anyone wants us to have very few agricultural areas in Slovenia, I don't know, and for example, we would invent some potatoes for those small agricultural surfaces, which we will plant three times a year, and we will dig three times a year. These are some extreme cases that I hope and I am sure that we are adopting this resolution that will not happen in Slovenia. I also think it is right to make this very clear that, while this document has some strategic direction, but it is not important, it is extremely important, and all these implementing acts, which will follow this strategic direction, will have to lead to very clear answers in order to maintain the proper economic situation of agricultural holdings in order to preserve the relevant areas of agricultural land and to produce mainly healthy food in Slovenia. These are the objectives that I think we can achieve on the basis of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In my presentation of the Group's position, I said that we are and that I am also personally satisfied that this document came to the National Assembly. I must say that we have been looking forward to it for quite some time and that this document actually describes the scope of the development of Slovenian agriculture by 2020. Given that we are talking about the amendment, I would like to mention that, according to my opinion in Chapter 5, strengthening the provision of public goods for agriculture in the field of environmental protection and preservation of the cultural landscape is sufficiently clearly defined that we will not cultivate genetically modified organisms in Slovenia, that there are too many difficult procedures before even this type of cultivation can occur. Even now, legislation in the field of green farming and the use of plant protection products is sufficiently eloquent in preventing the use of larger quantities and also of plant protection products. I therefore think that these measures are already relatively well defined. In our parliamentary group, I do not have any particular concerns that we would not have written an amendment in this document. But I would still suggest to the Minister, the Ministry, that it give its opinion in this room. We, who have participated in the Committee on Agriculture, have also heard this. The document itself is not a miracle Bible, as the minister himself said in this house. Sufficiently speaking and qualitatively, things are written for all those who are in some way professionally or administratively engaged in agriculture. I am more concerned that those who process Slovenian land and those who produce food may not understand this document and might see some quick solution in it. The structure of Slovenian farmers is the same as it is. Here I am thinking mainly of the age structure, which is not encouraging, all too many farmers who are over 65 years old, and all are too few those who engage in farming in their early years. This is mainly because they do not see their own perspective. Look, I'm worried now, too, if I'm looking at a way of thinking about the profession, what levels of farming we're going to have in Slovenian space; it's about professional and semi-professional farming, and then it's about social farming and eco-farming. I fear that this Europe will draw us into itself and that we will have in Slovenia, as someone once said, 200 large farms or large farms. That wouldn't be good for the landscape. Wouldn't be good for Slovenia. The great ones have a desire for good working areas, but they are less interested in those who are not good and suitable for farming. The care, the self-care, if we're talking about it, then we have to worry about something else. 50% of the grain, then a few kinds of meat, 30, maybe a little more. That's actually worrying. Of course, we also need to give an answer to this question, but what we really want in this Slovenia is to provide as much as 100% of the supply. At this point this is not a problem and it may not be a problem in 2019, we have no answer to that today. We actually have enough in this European market, but [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! You know the position of the Ministry, which is extremely conservative to genetically modified organisms. This is how we vote at the level of the Council of European Ministers and also in the bodies of the European Commission, because we are aware of three matters. For the first time, when we are talking about genetically modified organisms and their production in the European Union area, we must take into account in addition to two thirds of the reasons why we have our opinion. The first reason is simple: we must ensure that they do not endanger human health. The fact that a multinational submits a study to the European Agency has not, in our view, provided any assurance at this time. Secondly, we must have assurance that the new organism is not dangerous to the environment. In our view, too, the study commissioned by the multinational and submitted to the European Commission or its authorities is not the right way. And thirdly, we must bear in mind that we have the right to socio-economic reservations. For example, what is a socio-economic hindrance? If we have as much an internationalist policy as an agricultural policy, where European and Slovenian taxpayers invest, because it is strategically important, much of their money in agricultural and food production, we have the right and duty to listen to the opinion, and whatever it is, to our citizens. However, we still need to be careful with the expression. Indeed, sometimes some things can be done this way, and it is more difficult when they are written in some form and therefore with all these principles and with the direction the resolution has, and this is a sonar farming that we have a reservation to such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I must say that all the time that we have considered this resolution on the committee, I have been convinced that we have addressed this issue or these plans on the right hand side. Therefore, I must also say that I am particularly encouraged in this also by the provision that we should work to reduce or prevent the use of agricultural land for the production of food used for the production of biofuels. This is one thing that is very much after year, I will say, and I hope that we will also achieve through the European Union that there will be no more double subsidies for the production of biogas or other biofuels, because we are actually subsidising food production on one side and then biofuels on the other. At that time, when we discussed this issue on the Committee, it was said that this moment could not be excluded from either of the two subsidies, and I would like to see that, both through the Council of Ministers and later in the Commission and the European Parliament, we have achieved, in order to avoid double subsidisation in this way. That's one. Secondly, I support the Zares amendment, which has also deteriorated slightly during the investment phase. I think that when we talk about a vision, about some plans for the future, it is better to say what our final goal is than to try or write something in the resolution that we are actually doing right now. We introduce genetically modified organisms – already through the Ministry or Minister of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, as well as the Minister of the Environment and Space, acting on our routes – participate in a pool of those countries that oppose the cultivation of genetically modified organisms and also prevent the spread of authorised genetically modified organisms into the European Union. So to speak of the fact that if the European Union allows something to be done, but this is certainly all right, it is a bit of a hair draw because the fact that the European Union, like no one else in this world, is in fact not completely immune to the influences of lobbyists, especially those financed by large multinationals, who in this case promote or impose on the European Union their products that they have developed – not as we have heard before, when we hear how comparable a genetically modified plant is to a hybrid. I think that the most basic knowledge, however, is also needed in the National Assembly and the comparison of hybrids with genetically modified organisms shows that we do not really understand what the problem is. If it were true that they were the same thing, then we wouldn't have the most infamous case of a farmer in the United States who had to pay Monsanto a fine for planting, I don't know, wheat or corn that was genetically altered. The hybrid can't sow. However, those who know something about this need to comment on protecting or defending genetically modified organisms that are, in fact, specificly resistant to certain pests, but that does not preclude them from being sensitive to other pests. Here is this problem of development or of taking over God's power by man, when we replace natural selection, when we replace natural selection, when we replace or even by artificial choice – instead of going to artificial choice, we create new organisms, but we forget that any such change brings one good quality. Others, thirds, fourths, fifths, we do not prevent and, in fact, create a very narrow set of specifically resistant organisms and thus force the farmer, force agriculture to make full use of safeguards that would otherwise not be used. In fact, we have come to the point of absurdity that we are then under the full control of a large brother called Monsanto in the everyday language, or even a number of other multinationals who are violent against agriculture worldwide, not only in the European Union and Slovenia. That is why I would very much like to see them succeed in their efforts to ban the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. Although I know that we now have the conditions for introducing genetically modified organisms into our agriculture very sharp and virtually impossible to cultivate genetically modified organisms, there is always a risk that we will continue to be exposed to this violence. That is why I support both the resolution and this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me introductoryly say that I will be happy to support this resolution. It is true that this is a comprehensive document, subject to different critical views and that it has evolved over the years and under the influence of various research tasks, views and also under the influence of different policies. It is clear that agriculture is such a multifaceted matter, which depends not least on different factors; on what happens in space, in nature and in transport. It is so much more important, in fact, in a resolution that will have a fatal impact on the development of Slovenia, with various matters and, last but not least, it has a fatal impact on all those who will be going to the European Parliament in the coming years and will require certain requirements for our country to have a good basis for all of this. I understand the views of some Members and Members and the desire to like them when they categorically require the prohibition of genetically modified organisms. I am aware of how this is a highly sensitive area, especially since we adopted the first law in 2000, 2001 and this law has undergone many changes and we know how and how and by what effect these changes have been made. It is precisely because we have incorporated into the marriage a number of guards and conditions that have also made it more difficult. The reason why the conditions were so tight in time was because the famous Monsanto, which Breda and Cveta spoke about, lost one specific claim, but lasted exactly 20 years. For 20 years, there was a study of how, in what way, and why, in this large corporation, some things were very cleverly hidden from the public, from lobbyists, from parliament, from the Senate, from Congress and so on. It has been difficult to reach all the results, and this is why the European Community, under the influence of various policies, has given Austria the opportunity to have, for example, a permanent moratorium on this and other countries to focus on the conditions. That is why I think that such a sharply defined amendment at a time when we are actually performing in a new negotiating period, when we will have to fight for new things, may not be very wise. He is, of course, attractive and attracts all journalists and looks like all those who support the resolution, as it is, or we will not support this amendment, that we are simply "for". However, we may be far more cautious and see in the long term how and how Slovenia will have to fight for certain funds – not just agricultural policy, but I think that everyone else – for all the years ahead in the European Parliament. It is true that some of them may have even requested a moratorium on the uncontrolled growth of biogas plants at the meeting yesterday, but there was no uncontrolled growth of biogas plants in Slovenia. It was controlled, just how and how, of course, that's questionable. Certainly, those proposals that speak about the different types of waste, waste and waste, and I don't know what else, are certainly far more appropriate than the benefits of the best agricultural land. But it is good to know that this needs to be tackled gradually, with a thoughtful variant and see how and what. Of course, it's food that's the basic condition. We are born with the need to eat, live, and die in some way — someone said that too, perhaps because of the consequences of too good food. Of course, Slovenians are known to have the food we have, we have very good and quality. But it would be good if we were working on a more nutritionally independent way in the future, that our food has a certified origin and all that we have been trying for years to sort out and talk about our own self-sustainment. I believe and hope that this resolution will somehow pave the way for better negotiations where we really expect more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone else? Please, Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The statements on genetically modified food are always up to date and interesting mainly because they polarise, share and because we are looking at something further through this technical work. Personally, I do not have any problems with this amendment, and I will also support it, especially because I think that the period from 2013 to 2020 is certainly the period in which, for the sake of Slovenia, we do not want those in the world who need it or want to be "faster" or "faster" to test it, and then we will decide. Surely today we cannot say that it is likely that decades in the future will show that genetically modified food can be purely safe in certain areas, a purely good scientific achievement of mankind and, on the other hand, there will certainly be problems. Let's just say a simple example to tell you that we need a lot of time. For example, if a gene that prevents the existence and development of maize skills as an insect is extended to Slovenian fields, it is unknown how it will work on bees as one of the more sensitive organisms that have an insect with skill or as an insect with a variety of things in common. And we also need a time to see those boundaries and meters that the theory sets out to see if it holds out in practice. I'm sure it's probably not, because nature, and it's right and it's nice to surprise us all over again, both with positive messages and negative messages. For this period until 2020, I agree and will also vote that it is not time for us to try genetically modified organisms in Slovenia. What about the future, what is good in this story, what is bad, what will be judged by our children and grandchildren? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the day, it's on the defensive proposal for an advisory referendum on the construction of block 6 thermoelectric shocks. A group of seven members with the first signed Tade Slapnik submitted a proposal for a referendum. I give the floor to the representative of the proposalers Tade Slapnik for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, adopted in 1992, is the first internationally binding document to address responses to climate change at the international level. The objective of this Convention is to achieve a fixed greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere at such a level as to prevent dangerous anthropological interference with the climate system. This is an important event in the field of environmental protection, as it means the launch of organised and coordinated action to mitigate or prevent the adverse climate change that has already begun to threaten humanity and will be even more so in the decades to come. The Kyoto Protocol, ratified by Slovenia in 2002, was also adopted under this Convention in 1997. The Kyoto Protocol represents a small but extremely important first step towards addressing the issue of climate change, one of the greatest threats to humanity at present. This provides for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 5% over the period 2008-2012 compared to 1990. Slovenia, which signed the Protocol in October 1998 and ratified it in July 2002, committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8 % in the first target period in relation to the baseline year 1986 when greenhouse gas emissions were highest. Let me remind you that in 2009 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Declaration on the Active Role of Slovenia in the formulation of a new global policy on climate change, which confirms Slovenia's commitment to the principles of sustainable development as a commitment to the present generation to realize such a development of our community, which will improve the prospects of future generations to meet their needs. The vision of Slovenia, according to the declaration of the National Assembly, is in energy-efficient and efficient use of energy and low-carbon and sustainable energy production, based on renewable sources and smart energy networks. The planned construction of a new, more than €200 million worth 600 megawatt block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanj on coal in our opinion is not in line with the medium- and long-term objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the Declaration on the Active Role of Slovenia in the Development of a New Global Policy for Climate Change. Since TEM 6 is included in the European CO2 emissions trading scheme invested in the forecasting of future emission coupon prices, this is a key element of the economic evaluation of climate change investments In July 2009, the most developed evaluation system was established in the United Kingdom, with constant prices of CO2 tonnes per system in 2030 exceeding all prices assumed in the planning of the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant. The planned investment in Block 6 is, in terms of climate change in the time frame until 2020, while Block 6 is an essential problem for Slovenia's climate objectives so far, as it is expected to spend as much as half of the remaining quotas of Slovenia's agreed greenhouse gas emissions. Block 6 will thus essentially dictate the long-term low-carbon and energy strategy of Slovenia. A dilemma will arise between 2020 and 2030 whether it is better to continue using Block 6 or better to replace it with renewable sources or sources with a lower carbon footprint. By the end of life, this is expected to be until 2054, and there is a high probability that it will end up as an inherited investment. The decision for TES 6 is in the light of both economic and energy, non-rational and environmentally harmful. Many environmental experts and many NGOs with a call to the government Do not lock us in the future!, call for a decision to stop the construction of Block 6 of Šostjanj and to save investment money and focus on upgrading existing blocks 4 and 5, efficient use and savings of energy, new renewable resources and the development of a portable active network. For all the reasons stated in accordance with Article 26 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, we propose a call for an advisory referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šostanj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The proposal for a consultative referendum was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Matjaž Han to present the opinion of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u106	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 33rd meeting, the Economic Committee considered a proposal to call for a consultative referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which explains in its broad opinion in the introduction that the consultation referendum is to be held in order to determine the will of the electorate on the matter to be decided by the National Assembly. Therefore, the referendum question must be raised so that voters can be understood and that they can undoubtedly express their will. However, since the consultation referendum is intended to establish the will of the electorate on the issue that the National Assembly is yet to decide on, the referendum issue must also be raised in such a way as to give the State Assembly a clear political direction in order to take its decision on the question which is the subject of a decision at such a referendum. In the opinion of the Office, the proposed referendum issue is very unclear in this part because it is substantively difficult and explicit, as it relates to the possibility of including a project in the national energy programme of the Republic of Slovenia, with the technical characteristics of the project included in the referendum question so that it is not possible to say with certainty whether they serve only its identification or visibility or precisely to ask the question of the actual technical characteristics of the project itself. Therefore, the question is whether it would still be in line with the voter's will expressed in the referendum if the new national energy programme subsequently included a project that would be different in terms of its technical characteristics and how different it should be in order to be consistent with the referendum outcome. This, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, means that the National Assembly on the proposed referendum issue cannot obtain clear political guidance to decide on the issue that is to be verified in the consultation referendum. That is why this is not the purpose of the consultation referendum itself, with such a referendum question, the aim would not be achieved. The service therefore proposes in its opinion that the referendum issue should be amended accordingly. In the debate on the proposal for an advisory referendum, the majority of the members of the committee opposed the call for a referendum. They considered that the TES 6 project was a professional and political question to be answered by the Government, and therefore it is irresponsible to leave this issue to citizens and citizens. In addition, the project is already in implementation and has been accepted by the inhabitants of the immediate area, so that the proposed referendum issue is now too late to raise. The question should be raised at the beginning of the project agreement, or at the latest in 2009. Furthermore, according to the members of the Committee, the referendum question is also misleading as it asks whether TES 6 should be included in the new national energy programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2010-2030, which should in fact be adopted and given concrete answers on energy projects. The discussion also stressed the need for Slovenia to provide reliable energy supply, which cannot be provided with renewable energy sources, and the proposal was therefore made that the new national energy programme and energy projects should have a broader expert discussion, and in this regard the Committee agreed that the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Economy should submit a report on the TES 6 project within 30 days, summarizing the new national energy programme, which will serve as a basis for a broader discussion at the Committee meeting on this project in cooperation with all relevant experts. A representative of the Slovenian E-Forum also participated in the debate, who mentioned in connection with the proposed consultation referendum that all scenarios of the national energy programme should be dealt with as widely as possible before deciding on this issue. Also a scenario without TES 6. The representative of the Slovenian Economic Chamber, who presented the position of the Strategic Council for Energy and Climate Change, pointed out that, in the context of future discussions in the TES 6 project, possible irregularities need to be clarified and warned that there was not enough professional debate on energy efficiency. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on the following draft opinion: the Committee on the Economy considers that the proposal for a consultative referendum on the construction of the Block 6 is appropriate. The Committee does not consider that the proposal for the invitation to tender for the consultation referendum is appropriate. Two members of the committee voted in favour of the proposed opinion and 10 members voted against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Dr. William Pšenicny, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. All hail, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I would just like to trust you that the Government has not defined and expects the Ministry of the Economy to make a detailed report on Project 6, which will be made in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u110	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, Secretary of State! If we had a government that could decide and decide, then we probably would not have such a question before us unless it was triggered by the opposition or civil society. So that one coalition party within the government raises such a question, then it means that the coalition itself has different views on this very important issue of future energy supply, up to a huge number of jobs and, last but not least, up to a strong over two billion valuable projects, of course, the problem is that the project is running. This torture of Parliament in this way and of us Members, with a question that is not at all a question, is irresponsible of the proposers of this referendum initiative because they are putting on a referendum a thing that has already begun. This is like putting on a referendum today, whether we are sitting in Parliament today or not. We are already sitting in Parliament today, and the investment in Block 6 is already underway. And how to start an investment like this to have a referendum is, to put it mildly, the abuse of the referendum institute by those who say repeatedly that referendum arrangements need to be changed. Well, that's the first problem. The first problem of this issue is that it has been triggered for a project that has already started and, according to my assessment, such a move is not in place, and is the first argument to reject today's call for a referendum on this issue. The second point is that the proposed referendum issue is misleading and unclear. In fact, Block 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanj has its own good salaries, its arguments for and also has its arguments against. Or if we did a swout analysis, there's a risk of something, and there's some advantages. Therefore, to expose only one threat or one negative side and to ignore all other aspects of this project, it is biased and does not give clear message and questions to voters and voters. So, if we only expose emissions to Block 6 but we are not talking, for example, about the security of the supply of electricity to Slovenia and similar issues, and not least about the conservation of jobs related to the mining and use of coal in the Shaleska Valley, it is very misleading and biased. The third argument, which speaks in favour of non-support, is a very professional question on which professional arguments or counter-arguments should be found. The policy must be clearly defined and the transfer of responsibilities to the electorate is more or less an exit to the power of the applicants, who have failed with professional arguments to prove more negative than positives in this project and who have failed to convince even their own coalition types that they would negatively identify themselves to this project. The next point is that if we were to go to a referendum on a future energy policy, we should ask voters whether after 2020 they are, say, a carbon-free society or not; whether we should make a national energy plan under the transition scenario to a carbon-free society in a short period of time or not. And then projects to organize these orientations. We believe that Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectricarium is a project that is running that this investment needs to be optimised cost-effectively. In fact, I think it would make sense to seek private funding for this investment and thus to relieve public resources to a certain extent. But I think it's kind of late for that. The thermal power plant Šostanj, and in particular the economy of this project, will depend heavily on the price of electricity, for example, in 2030 as well as in 2020, as well as in 2040. I am asking the candidates of the referendum whether they can predict the price of electricity for that period and, consequently, the economic viability of this project. As far as CO2 emissions are concerned, I think that this project is lower with the same electricity production, which is a positive step. However, the fundamental issue of future energy policy orientations is being raised. Given that this project is under way, I imagine that future energy policy orientations will go hand in hand with this investment, so that we can count on three basic sources in the Republic of Slovenia for safe and secure supply in the future. The first source will certainly be hydropower and hydropower, which we create with a certain share of other renewable resources. The second source will probably be a fossil source or coal from Velenje, from Velenje coal and, consequently, energy from the Šostjanje Termoelectrica and the third source will be nuclear energy. I do not want anyone in Slovenia to succumb to temptations to put a shock in the world that affects people's feelings right away under the issue of some long-term energy supply, either for or against one or those options. However, I believe that each such case should be considered as an additional stone of arguments for or against individual energy sources. Slovenia has relatively good experience both with nuclear energy and with coal technology. I think we should put new technological upgrades together at times. This is happening in the case of Block 6 and so today, in 2011, or going to build block 6 or not, is no longer a question. This issue may have been raised by the end of 2008 or early 2009, but today the project is too far-fetched to have some huge consequences for public finances to chew on or cancel the project. We will therefore not support the referendum initiative in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, on the legitimacy of the referendums. In the Group of Members, we have really discussed this initiative intensively and, as you know, it is no secret that we have not been united because there are different thoughts about whether the moment is ripe for the referendum, whether we have proposed it too late or have proposed it too early. There are also multi-layer issues within this framework and we are well aware that one is the issue of the economic sustainability of the TES 6 project and the other is the issue of the environmental sustainability of this project. And the initiative taken by some Members of the Zares Group is legitimate from this point of view, because it highlights this other side in particular: or our society, which has committed itself to getting closer to the concept of a carbon-free society, think seriously about this commitment, whether we are going forward on a path that is essentially close to energy self-sufficiency, and on the other hand means disregarding those proposals that we at least explicitly support. This debate is therefore justified. And if the proposal for a referendum is a reason for this, for a new reflection on the usefulness of the TES 6 project, it is welcome from this point of view. We were also aware of this in the Group of Members, in spite of the different opinions on the project itself in terms of the referendum. By the way, it's not true it's ever too early or too late for a referendum. In neighbouring Italy, they went to a referendum on nuclear energy after the Caorso nuclear power plant was built and became operational. Still, they went to the referendum and stopped her. Something similar happened in Austria. In Austria, just before that, they had invested heavily in nuclear energy and had stopped the same nuclear programme and focused mainly on renewables. Of course, they also accepted the burden of a certain energy dependency, at least for a certain period of time. But each country has its own timings, its own approaches. Slovenia has also decided in the previous speaker's mandate to focus, and as has now been said, on these three objectives. By the way, I don't think the earthquake in Japan in Fukushima only affects emotions. If that were the case, everything would be fine. But the fact is, the radioactive release is a hundred thousand times higher than the permitted. And these aren't just emotions, these are facts, and these are dangerous facts. It is therefore legitimate to think about this and it is also legitimate to think about referendums. If referendums are ever legitimate, they are when it comes to a question that has a profound impact on our quality of life. This was also the case with the initiators of this initiative, not only Members, but also the civil society environmental organisation Alpe Adria Green, which gave this initiative. We, too, have repeatedly thought of the referendum as an extreme decision-making option, unless it is clear how we will define ourselves for this great project and for this extremely expensive project called TES 6. This question is multilayered, it's complex. We are all aware of this, especially in the Zares Group, so we have not automatically and uncritically implemented what we have written in our programming documents on several occasions. And our programming documents are green, they are environmentally oriented, they are low-carbon and, of course, our client, our electoral body and our membership expect a party that has a minister in the economic sector to act in the interests of all citizens. But precisely because we have a ministry, there are concerns in the parliamentary group about the meaning of the referendum now. We have a ministry that prepares and carefully prepares the documentation in a transparent manner. We hope and expect that in a short time everything that we and citizens are interested in will be published, so that it will be clear whether this project, where many interests have acted synergisticly, are more or less legitimate, more or less justified, energy-oriented, are socially oriented. We have heard that it is also about saving the sector, which is important for a particular Slovenian region, but only after publication and after publication of all the analyses that have been prepared and are being prepared will it be clear how much those who oppose this project have had, or those who advocate this project. This rational approach to the question has also prevailed in the Zares Group, where we believe that the referendum initiative has also been legitimate, was signed on behalf of individual Members, and we will be determined today by our own conscience and also by today's debate. However, we would certainly like this to be a major opportunity to reflect on our present and future in terms of energy development. Nuclear energy is a problem. This is not only an emotional problem, but it is also a storage problem, it is a problem of all the dangers arising from this type of technology, and the problem is also the construction of a large giant that will not contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. All these issues are legitimate and I hope that this will be an opportunity in particular to highlight the importance of renewable resources and alternative technologies, which can only reduce Slovenia's dependence on these problematic energy players, in particular fossil energy and also nuclear energy. But we are aware: the approach is complex, complex, we cannot discuss these complex issues in a black and white way. We want to listen to the profession, but we also want to listen to the needs and wishes of citizens and citizens of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u114	Nice greetings, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! We have before us a proposal for a consultative referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium, prepared by a group of six, seven Members, I think some have withdrawn from this signature. I can say that we are talking about a very serious topic, because referendums are a very important tool for the implementation of democracy in one country and in the Slovenian People's Party we are, in principle, detained until the referendums. We insist and argue that it is right to maintain this instrument, to give it as much opportunity as possible, but in the use of this instrument we must be extremely careful, and indeed these should be some national topics, such as one of the referendums that we last supported, on the border, while today we are talking about the consultation referendum on TES. The essence of the consultation referendum is that the National Assembly is not bound by the outcome of the consultation referendum. So the proposal is for a referendum with which people would ask questions. Interestingly, the first was signed and also those who collected signatures from the party Zares. I have a position before me; in January he really made the following point. Indeed, the proposals for lifting the blockades and allowing future developments to be achieved have shifted into several points. According to their "recast of the Constitution, the referendum should be arranged so that it can only be described on the basis of a human initiative and on the basis of questions of plebiscite nature". I don't know, there was no human initiative, plebiscite nature, I don't think it's necessary, because this is primarily an enforcement matter that the Slovenian government should have resolved a long time ago. Mr Golobič with his finger points to the institutions of the referendum. This has become a tool for political overplay if any significant legislative change ends at the referendum, any change ends at the referendum – who needs parliament at all? Similarly, "referendums are too often used for political and cheap collection of political points." I'm going to quote this on purpose, because I'm going to quote myself from 2009 as well. In January 2009, I asked the President of the Government a question in the National Assembly, and this was the first question from the opposition, which received enough votes, that we also had a discussion on this issue. The question was about this question, the question of TES. I stress, in January 2009, two, three months after the economic crisis occurred, when the European Community adopted the energy and environmental package, when we found that electricity prices fell from €90 to €50, when Slovenia became self-sustaining with electricity, I then asked the question. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you whether you agree with the following statements. Firstly, it is now a good time for individual energy decisions to first draw up a strategic thought within the Energy Council on the further development of energy and to be written in the form of a strategic document, such as a new energy programme. Secondly, we have an open debate in this document in the National Assembly, where we can talk about it and adopt certain solutions. Thirdly, on the basis of such a strategic document, decisions are taken on the follow-up of Slovenian energy, which means that the guarantee for individual investments and possible reorganisations of the Slovenian energy system would be confirmed and implemented only after the consideration and adoption of the national energy programme in the National Assembly. Experiences in recent years have given us the responsibility not to repeat some mistakes in the past. That was the question, after all these answers, I also received an answer to the second question from this set of two questions that you ask the President, and I quote the Prime Minister of the Government, "We have discussed this issue several times before with Minister Lahovnik, and, of course, after four months of the work of the Government, we are satisfied with the dynamics of resolving these issues. We do not want to accelerate the preparation of all the necessary documents, which will be subject to expert and political judgement. We both understand that the current crisis is a real opportunity to focus our attention on the energy field. Some activities are already taking place here. I am answering your questions: we will speed up the preparation of all the documents so that it can be spoken of by the profession and ultimately by policy. We will have real discussions in the framework of a national or strategic energy council. The Ministry of Economy will prepare the first proposals for these decisions, we will consult within this Council, within this government, certainly within the framework of the professional public, and not least in the National Assembly. So, before we take decisions, they will be subject to consultation and exchange of views in this high assembly.".. That was January 2009. Today, the representative of the Government has identified himself a few minutes before me that this is a question raised by a group of Members and that the Government has not yet identified itself and expects Members to identify themselves on this issue. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the coalition, no matter who comes from where, this is simply not the way energy policies are managed and the country is not. And question TES 6 is a serious, responsible question that has long-term implications. I agree with everything that Mr Franco has said, but unfortunately since then, in these two years, we have had, since then, a reservation of EUR 25 million under the signed seriousness of the contracts for this project, that we have today, according to my data, more than EUR 200 million of the money invested, that we have an additional 800 million contracts signed and that after two years in the National Assembly we will argue and see whether we should ask Slovenia and Slovenia about this issue. I think that such an initiative that has come is, first of all, underestimating to the members of Parliament, but especially to the Slovenes and Slovenians, who are so surprised when it comes to them, I don't know 10, 12% at some referendum, but when we try to ask these questions, which are exclusively questions raised by those who are responsible for the direction of energy policy, including the leadership of the country. Today, in the area of agriculture, we have said that energy reaches into a wide range of spaces, including such investment reaches very firmly into environmental themes, energy themes, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in the future, and, excuse me, after two years and something, since my question was raised, by the time the Government has done its work, it is quite unusual. I think it's misleading, underestimating, for us to come to the National Assembly with such a question, let alone before the electorate and the electorate. The government has the Ministry of Economy, headed by the Ministry, has been quite a good half of that time so far, Minister Lahovnik. I myself share this view that it is obvious that Minister Lahovnik has done his job, he has put himself at the forefront of this project for so long, that the project has gone on the path of action to this stage where we are today. At some point, however, when he also assessed that it was better to withdraw from this policy, Ultra was a very practical excuse, and in fact, I think that the work of the Minister of Lachovnik will be very written after he uncritically admitted that, in circumstances that have changed substantially, this project has led to such a stage that it is simply no longer possible to stop it or to stop such consequences as have been said here to simply give up, I don't know, the inputs so far, and finally the contributions of more than 200 million and certain penalties from the signed contract. At this time and in this mandate, there is now another issue where the idea of the termination of certain contracts appears again. I fear that Slovenia and Slovenians will again pay for such unfortunate or reckless terminations of the contract. In this part, as I have already said, I estimate that the Slovenian government as a whole, with the President of the Government at the helm, laid down the test and this main test stone was the investment TEŠ 6, because for an investment which is a quarter of the highway cross, which has been sang so many times, I think that the government should find so much power to pull its kind together and very quickly answer questions and give a clear answer. I also fully understand those who are the bearers of this project, either by the decisions of the authorities of their companies, by the companies on the part of which they carry out their work in good faith for the Valley of Shale, for a social picture in this area, or by the faith and spirit of the national definition in the field of energy, but it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define it. Dear colleagues from Zares, I hope that the next referendum question will not be that the Energy Directorate, led by Mr Copac, will bring before us within six months a national energy programme to discuss the energy programme as we need to. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will oppose this call for a referendum because we are assessing that this is a matter, as I have already said, especially those responsible, the first government is, and Parliament, and let us accept this responsibility and do our work. As I have already said in this question, on this very issue, which I consider to be one of the biggest questions of this government: if we are not able to answer such questions, let us ask ourselves whether we are able to lead the country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the consultative referendum on the construction of the sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. With all due respect for the Institute of the Referendum as the highest form of expression or decision on a matter, but in the DeSUS Group we do not think that this topic is exactly one that should be assessed or weighed at the referendum. We therefore do not think that it is necessary and that it is inappropriate to put this issue to the referendum and, through the referendum, to reach an opinion from citizens and citizens. There are a number of reasons why we decide in the Group of Members in this way; one of the first reasons is that we believe that this is merely and exclusively an expert question to which a professional must first identify and offer a citizen and citizens an answer to how Slovenia will be able to provide this energy security and sovereignty in the long term. We'll leave this to the profession. In the Group of Members, we believe that this is their question and that the profession should be united, including the government, which still does not have the right opinion on this proposal to answer this question. We are aware that the referendums on the verification of the issue of Thermoelectric Trbovlje have already been on the agenda and have already been a referendum issue. We have seen that participation in such referendums is very low, but was not low because citizens and citizens would not be interested, but were citizens and citizens of the opinion that the profession should decide, as it is necessary to ensure that this energy security is provided for our country. The 6th block of the Shoštanj Termoelectric power plant is about positive and negative things. On the one hand, it is positive that we are providing economic security through the construction of the 6th block, not least social security. It is also about the fact that the natural resource that Slovenia has very little – energy – is also coal in this area. So it would be a shame to keep coal unused in this area, because we know that energy is the one that will cause mankind a lot of trouble in the coming decades, just like food. So it's going to take advantage of this energy, of course not at any cost. Let this energy be used in such a way that it does not start a negative wage that begins with the burden of the environment. I think that technologies are such that they can minimise the environmental burden in this area and that Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant should be built in such a way that it is sustainable in this environment. If we look at the strategy – at least I think the strategy is in place, I think the government has a strategy on long-term energy and energy supply for our country. This strategy must have changed overnight. She turned around overnight. Until the last day we have been betting on nuclear energy, look, just one event in Japan – and the strategy is completely different! So nuclear energy is probably no longer saved in our strategy. We'll probably have to move on to renewables even more than we have so far. It means bio-waste, photovoltaics and so on. There are a lot of other things that we should talk about today. But it is probably not necessary to talk about the 6th block of the Heat Power Plant, to take our thoughts and visions for the future with regard to our country's supply of energy. However, as I said, this is not a question to be checked at the referendum, but to be checked by the expert. Let it be modified by the government in the energy supply strategy of the country, and then it will be a little easier. In this case, we could also discuss how to save, how to use, in the most cost-effective way, energy that is certainly responsible for carbon society or carbon footprints on our environment. As I said, in the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal for a consultative referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! The referendum on TES 6 will be supported by the SNS Group. Let the people decide as they choose the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. At the time the referendum was an appropriate form, today this referendum is no longer appropriate because certain currents in the government want to carry out this project in the country, because this project will offer some fantastic profits. From the outset, the price of this project has risen from €600 million to €200 million and will soon be €600 million. Of this, it will certainly be at least 20, if not 30 % of this money goes unnoticed, and since in Slovenia it will never be discovered where millions and hundreds of millions are disappearing, but there will always be a search for where something smaller is disappearing, no one will answer or launch an investigation, but some will have a nice time and open accounts abroad. I think we need to think about this project in general. It is true that we need electricity, but why not buy a stake from the Croats in the nuclear power plant. What the Ripper has done — and I will not go down for reasons that may be such or otherwise — can be corrected. They also need to be squeezed into the area so that they do not invest anything in the decommissioning of a nuclear plant, that they do not want to build and refuse to take over their share of radioactive waste and so on. We can squeeze them in here. If we have good lawyers – if our, state, government lawyers are not good, let them come to the Slovenian National Party and we will provide experts, if not ours already foreign, but smart ones, who will work for the country and for the benefit of the country, but not for some and to fill some pockets. Similarly, the Slovenian National Party has already sought to bring into law mandatory photovoltaic collectors on the roofs of public buildings, such as schools, gyms and the like. At that time, even in the previous term, this was not accepted because the Czechs, this is not wise and this is proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Today it is clear and everyone supports it. Interestingly, if some were to read literature abroad, they would see that knowledge is found outside long before it comes to Slovenia. It is always late in Slovenia, unfortunately, but those who say these things, usually on their left or right, no matter what political option is in power, should always be denied. I think it makes sense for people to decide on this issue, that they will also know what they want, because in this time until the referendum, they will be able to speak professionally to each other. Now we listen mainly only to those who are for the construction of TES 6 and yet most of them are foreign professions against the construction of TES 6. But it is true that this is a huge amount of money that some will either get in their pocket or not get in their pocket. We will support the proposal for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS Club, we are aware of the importance of investments in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium. Project TEŠ 6 is one of the key projects that are taking place in Slovenia. It represents an expert and political question to which the Government should answer clearly and in a reasoned manner. Given that the project started already in the mandate of the previous government, all data on this investment should have been known by then. Unfortunately, we do not have clear justifications for the project even today, and this is because the project is already in a certain stage of implementation and, following media reports, significant financial resources are being allocated to the project. However, in a series of open questions, we know that we still do not have a national energy programme in the National Assembly that would serve as a basis for justifying the eligibility of the project, and thus we do not know the analyses that would show us the environmental, social, energy, economic and general social consequences of the implementation or failure of this project. At the same time, the LDS Club would also like to draw attention to an important issue on the basis of which it has already decided to invest in TES6 years ago. We do not have any analyses, studies and research in the National Assembly to familiarize us and to represent the benefits and downsides of this project. The fact is that the project was launched without proper procedures, in an unusual way, without presenting all the effects of the project to the general public, which is certainly controversial and to a large extent also the cause of today's complications. However, this cannot be an excuse for the indecisiveness of the current government for failing to implement measures to clarify the situation. At the same time, however, the justification of the proposal for a referendum question is being raised. If so, the question should be raised at the beginning of the project agreement. In our view, it is not really the problem of the referendum that it is too late or too late for it. The bigger problem is that the transfer of this decision to the population of the Republic of Slovenia is at least irresponsible, as there is no good basis for decision making. We are aware of the fact that in Slovenia we must ensure reliable energy supply. This is certainly a topic on which it would be necessary to hold a broad public debate in which both the profession and the public would have the opportunity to examine the individual elements of the provision of such care. The Committee on the Economy has already discussed this and agreed that the Ministry should present all the effects of each energy investment, economic, financial, development, social and other resources. The interested working bodies of the National Assembly should also discuss this, not just the Committee on the Economy. It was therefore proposed that a wider professional public debate be held on the new national energy programme, energy projects. On the basis of the national energy programme adopted, it would then make sense to carry out various investments in energy infrastructure in accordance with this programme to be granted by the National Assembly. If any of the investments are challenged or there is a feeling that there is no broad professional and general social consensus for them, consideration may also be given to the implementation of the referendum. Once we have publicly available data on the positive and negative effects of an investment, in certain circumstances it makes sense to ask people, including the referendum, which should be at least binding and non-consultative, as proposed by the signatories to the referendum initiative. However, since the TES 6 voter and electorate consultation referendum can only justify their decision on the basis of some unverified claims made by supporters of the investment in TES 6 and on the basis of also unverified views of opponents of the investment in TES 6, we believe that this referendum is not meaningful in the LDS. Yet, despite the fact that the eyewitnesses fly with both sides of the story, nothing happens. The government is silent and a number of open questions related to TES 6 are raised in public. The government does not make a clear point of view, not knowing Members and Members of Parliament with any document on the basis of which it would be possible to make an informed decision on the future fate of the TES 6 project, and consequently the debate on one of the largest energy projects in our country's history turns into political accounting and the public is impressed that the energy policy in Slovenia is not led by the Government or the Ministry of State, but by individual interest groups that differ on a colour basis. Fishing in mud, therefore, because we do not know the relevant facts on the basis of which decisions would be taken. Instead of a substantive debate on the effects of this project on Slovenian energy supply, on the Slovenian economy, on the environment in Savinja-Shaleška Valley and beyond, on the health and social situation of the inhabitants of this region and also Slovenia, instead of all that the debate should contain, we actually have evidence of such and different lobbying, mutilating and accusing one another, and demands for human resources replacements, both on the one hand and on the other. In this situation, the initiators of the referendum, who would like to see people in a non-binding referendum decide on an investment whose effects, both positive and negative, do not know; on an investment that should be placed in a national energy programme that is not yet in place; on an investment in which so many perceptions have already been made from many different sides that you do not know who to believe; on an investment that the Government does not seem worthy of justifying or rejecting on the basis of some serious studies and analyses that would be publicly available. We understand the LDS referendum initiative as an attempt to place responsibility on the backs of citizens and citizens, such as fleeing from their own responsibilities and avoiding their responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the Government and the Ministry of Field Affairs to say whether this project is good or bad to take a decision on the implementation or termination of this project. It is therefore the duty of the Government to decide on its decision to argue and to make clear the arguments for its decision We will not support the initiative to call for a referendum mentioned in the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. For the introduction, two of the members of the parliamentary group first contributed to the signature under the proposal for a consultative referendum, but later after considering the single position that we would not support the proposal for a consultative referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. It is interesting that even the initiators do not support this today, and I have noticed in the debate that the initiators and the proponents are replacing, which is not the most accurate. However, if we are not in favour of a referendum, we are not, in fact, just the beginning of the thorough debates that have so far been missing, and we do not believe that the decisions that have been taken so far are such that they cannot be asked questions and perhaps even changed. We strongly oppose the fact that we are placed in a situation where ex post decisions are made, so when facts occur and then those who do not like these facts, or who feel that they are not appropriate, or have any concerns, or say something, but say it in the wind. The wind will take away words and criticism as it seems. Let's get back to the stimuli. This is one of the interesting aspects of this proposal for a referendum that the initiators are not identical with the proponents. The instigators were Alpe Adria Green, who somehow suddenly emerged, took the initiative, found the ones who adopted her, and drowned in silence. In silence when administrative procedures were under way, when there was still a chance to do something, silence prevailed among those instigators. And when the right moment came, they were re-emerged in the comfort of the project world. There, I suppose, together with others, they will now check whether the decision already made for them is no longer a matter of whether or not the project world is thinking, but only of how and how to comfort or how to calm those who might have any more unpleasant questions; and somehow people from both sexes in this project world have just poured and silenced. If some of the events accompanying this project are considered a little wider, then perhaps there is even no unjustified criticism for the proponents that they have acted foolishly or rashly and I do not know how to do anything else, because many of the circumstances are such that even the most serious debaters are allowed to think. I will also try to list some concerns later in the form of questions. Let us now see what was actually the ambition of the proposers. The first ambition was to stop the project, which is likely to be very difficult or perhaps even impossible. That's what the explanation says. The second ambition is to narrow down the national energy programme in advance so that the possible decision against TES 6 simply eliminates this and it would not even be discussed. The third ambition, which I think is purely legitimate, is the ambition to think more carefully about possible alternatives to one single option and to develop, this is the fourth ambition, a broad debate, which we probably all still support. The question now arises why, for example, Members of the unrelated Solidarity Group do not support this proposal for a referendum. First of all, because it would be a divorce of the responsibility of the Government and the National Assembly and the divorce of the owners. It is not possible to leave this only to the professions, as some think it is right. He can't decide that. And if we had already decided the profession, we would immediately ask ourselves which is the right profession, on the fact that at least those who follow the various published articles more regularly and the performances of various experts and scientists, we know that there are very different estimates that we are being serviced with very different data, that some studies are such that they are ordered in those who are very interested in carrying out the individual project, in this case the TES 6 project, and of course we cannot leave some professions to decide beyond those who will actually have to make such a decision and we will take it. Finally, even if we only do this post-festum: once and for all, the national energy programme will have to be adopted and this will be adopted here, for a very simple reason, because such important tasks cannot be left open indefinitely, and in the meantime, we will have to face facts that we simply cannot destroy anymore and we need to recognize them as what happened. And that's what's most wrong with the whole process. The second reason why we do not support this referendum is, of course, a professional reason, because we must come to the point that the profession will nevertheless come to an analysis, with data, with comparisons that will be comparable to the same parameters and which we can say are properly shown. Now it's just not possible. We know that the professional conflict is taking place more or less on the public stage in such a way that some appear as apologists and others as angry attackers of these same apologists. In this way, professional discussions certainly do not lead and do not lead to the correct results. However, we in the National Assembly will have to decide on the basis of what the profession will recommend, and we would therefore like to get the correct data and that those studies that have been prepared and paid should also be made available to us, as well as to some independent experts, and that they should not be regarded as something that must be hidden from the public. It's still like that right now, I'm sorry. Of course, the referendum cannot answer different questions as to whether alternatives are possible, whether there are also different versions, different options than what is now apriorous or only valid, the only options that can still be represented. Such things cannot be decided by referendums or good solutions. It should also be noted that the funds devoted to the referendum, which would be more debated about political interests than on professional issues, would be welcome for the various studies that would indicate what routes to a society called carbon-free. The fundamental question now arises: What do the Government and what do we really think? Are our commitments both within Slovenia and to the international community on carbon-free society serious or not? What do we really think about climate change policy? What do we really think when we talk about low entropy processes, whether it's materials or energy? And on these issues, which are democratically indisputable, we continue to make this statement, to put up a project that is perhaps even more bearable in ten years. Let's say in the '30s, '40s, so when, according to our commitments we're going to make, we have to reduce by 90.95% greenhouse gas emissions – what's that going to mean? Are we entitled to close our way to the future today so that we can ensure to those projects that may not be the best, even in a period when they will be far beyond what is yet acceptable to the world, or are we simply going to swallow up some of our promises that we have made and still make? The issue of these projects is still a whole species, I will only point out one more, I have to let go of the others for time, the question of how the European Investment Bank supports this project – somehow I felt that with its teeth squeezed, only if it risks nothing and risks the state of Slovenia. And how is it that there is no awareness of investing in this project and that promoters, managers, employees are risking it; many, say, who live off such projects? How is it possible to carry out such a very important project in one way or another? In doing so, some call and seek an alibi in the decisions of the Committee on the Economy, which raised the issue of the energy policy of Slovenia at the beginning of this mandate, and this is not justified. Later in the debate, I will try to illustrate with some of the conclusions adopted by this Committee how we are doing differently today than we were then.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! I must say from the outset that the very request for an advisory referendum is mistaken in my opinion. There are many reasons why I should list some. The TES project is already under way and already has already been acquired and large financial resources have been engaged for the project. The consultation referendum, if ever, should have been signed years ago, maybe seven, eight years ago, when it was still in its original design. Thirdly, as explained by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, only the proposed referendum question has been raised incorrectly, since it does not allow voters to express their will without doubt and thus does not provide a basis for the political direction of the National Assembly. Fourthly; the referendum issue is complex and therefore totally inappropriate. If I provoke a little, I would say, perhaps it would be better to ask if you already support the construction of TES 6, which will provide Slovenia with long-term stable and low energy prices and energy self-sustainment from a domestic source, which will cost EUR 1.2 billion from the funds obtained from foreign banking institutions only with the minimum possibility of enforcing a state guarantee. Fifthly, voters in such a referendum do not have and cannot have sufficient information to make relevant decisions on the issue. And: the issue of the TES 6 project is the responsibility of the government, the national assembly and it is irresponsible to place such decisions on citizens. It would also be possible to discuss what is wrong with the applicants' request, as many as are left. Of course, the very question of the request for a referendum cannot and must not be hindered from the very question of the project and the energy field in Slovenia in general. If I touch the latter first, I would ask all opponents of any energy options that are not based on renewable energy sources, whether they have already looked at the relatively near future. Are we aware that currently Slovenia receives 36% of its electricity from coal and that this rate at EU level is more than 50%, namely 54.8%? Are they aware that 26.7% of Slovenia's nuclear power plant in Krskem, which is slightly more than the EU as a whole, but not significantly more? And the last time we get from hydropower plants is 24.5% of electricity, when this average in Europe is only 14.6%. The subordinate question that follows this data is whether they know an alternative which in a few years could compensate for the loss of almost two thirds of the electricity production in Slovenia. The answer to the first ball is probably clear, so that electricity can be easily imported and maintained only on the basis of renewable energy sources. As it is said, such an answer is possible only on the first ball and in practice the situation is placed on the head. The distribution of this amount of energy is already more than questionable on the current infrastructure, but let us ignore this information and look at it more broadly. Given the data already presented on energy sources in Europe, the fact that this energy would most likely be produced in a thermal power plant or nuclear power plant and thus the impact on global pollution would be zero, or if we were more precise, it would be negative, as a significant share of electricity is lost in distribution, meaning that even more electricity should be produced from those sources and thus further pollute the environment. The case of Italy, which depends largely on electricity imports, also places economic calculations on its head as the average electricity price is almost 40% higher than in self-sustaining countries. The implications of the Slovenian economy, which is still energy intensive, can be imagined. Today, some countries have also been mentioned, where there are more renewable energy sources. As an example, Germany, which has been investing enormous resources in these areas for at least 10 years, can provide only 2% of photovoltaic renewable energy sources and possibly 6.56% of wind energy and a similar sum of biomass. However, we are still far from these numbers, and of course only with renewable energy sources will we not go far. It may also be interesting that for 600 megawatts, such as the rated power of the TES 6 project, it would require as much as 5 times the rated power in power plants that produce electricity from renewable sources as well as the production of the electricity itself from these sources means certain greenhouse gas emissions which, according to some experts, are not even so negligible. In the event of the Fukushima accident in Japan, the environmental impact of nuclear power plants was raised, but there are two other sides to the story that raise new issues. Would any hydropower plant in Slovenia possibly withstand the 8.9 magnitude earthquake on the Richtar scale? I'm sure it's not, but I know it would break a lot of dams on these power plants, and that would be a disaster for Slovenia as well. Otherwise, not entirely global, which in the case of Fukushima has not yet been fully proven, but certainly local flooding of all the provinces in the immediate vicinity of such a dam. However, if I go any further, this is the TES 6 project itself, the arguments for stopping it, which is clearly the purpose of the referendum's candidates, are equally controversial. Let me give you some information to confirm that. Although the project is relatively expensive and probably today's negotiated price would be lower, the contract was prepared at other times when the economy was in expansion and consequently the use of electricity. Well, I hope and I believe that there is more to be done in this area when it comes to lowering prices. Stopping the project at this stage and moving to the reconstruction of blocks 4 and 5 would mean that it would still represent an investment of EUR 1 billion in contract fines. Such an investment would also mean that they could use lignite from a large coal mine, where sufficient coal has been proven for nearly 50 years, for only 20 years, since after that time it would again become blocks 4 and 5 useless. And all of this with the fact that the benefit would be much less than the construction of a new block. This, however, means several greenhouse gas emissions to single-produced energy as well as a higher price. Not to mention the blackout of electricity and production during the reconstruction of blocks 4 and 5. The TES 6 project, as we know, also has all the permits obtained, both construction and environmental, and the project is also environmentally acceptable for the neighbouring state of Austria. As has already been said, projects have a financial structure based mainly on sources obtained from European financial institutions, so it is not directly concerned with taxpayers' money and it is not possible to spend that money elsewhere because it is intended. At the same time, the risk of payment of the State guarantee should be minimal. Building Block 6 is profitable and will practically repay itself, and the electricity market will only show how fast. The fact is that this will not cost taxpayers more than the other alternatives. Of course, countless audits of the project and measurements of the amount of lignite in the Velenje mine have also been made, and given that we still have no other information, it is possible to believe that the project was conducted conscientiously and that the amount of lignite is sufficient for the operation of block 6 during its lifetime. All these facts and not guesswork or hints clearly indicate that the proposal to convene a consultation referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Thermoelectric Farstang Farsa and that such an extension should not be seen in the light of the world, let alone reach the stage at which we are currently. I am certainly not ignoring the fact that the transition to electricity production from renewable energy sources and the possibility that Slovenia will actually become a carbon-free society in some foreseeable future, but this transition will take place in a long time and not in a few years. The energy picture will be much clearer in the future, and with the critical assessment of all factors, and listening to the arguments of all parties, I am confident that we will be able to adopt such a strategy that will meet all the criteria without such or other referendums. Maybe someone knows how to get new jobs without electricity? TES 6 is a fact that the factory, which will work for 40 years, has a good product, directly and indirectly employs several thousand workers. As long as there are no fusion reactors, let's burn the giant coal, I heard it days ago in a public debate in the State Council. I agree with that, and the Social Democrats may, with any exception, reject the referendum invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say that I will not support the referendum initiative. It seems to me, as has been said several times today, that it is pointless, unnecessary and even just a referendum issue is gradually misleading and inappropriate to present it to Slovenian citizens and citizens. In the beginning, let me also say that I am firmly distanced from the position taken by the party Zares on this matter. At this point, I believe that time needs to be done properly and responsibly. It certainly doesn't make sense after all these years and in the state in which we are to think about the referendum. We could have done this maybe seven, eight, ten years ago when the basics were adopted in this regard. It must be said that in connection with the construction of Block 6 the investment has been accepted and confirmed and is in the strategic documents that it has been confirmed so far by the three governments; that this has been confirmed by the government of Rop, then by the government of Janšev, and not least by the government of Pahor until the moment, or while Minister of Economy of Matthew Lahovnik, has participated in the government. Funding is provided and the financial structure is closed. Credits from important European investment banks are approved and contracts are signed. Equipment is being produced, calls for the rest of the work are being made and I find it simply incomprehensible, as I have repeatedly pointed out that, at such a stage, the responsible and reasonable master, which our country should be, is beginning to think in any way that the investment is controversial on those points that the fellow Members point out. What could be considered at this point may be the question of how to proceed with a nuclear power plant, as is the case in many countries in Europe; some have closed down certain extremely old and used nuclear power plants and so on. But here it has to be said that it is an assessment made by experts that is the most modern, if I say so, top technology that will be made so that the releases that this new block 6 will release into the atmosphere will be reduced by 30% with the same energy produced. I must say, in recent months we have witnessed many concerns, many studies have been commissioned. And let's see where we are. There was a lot of talk about no coal. We have spent 70,000 euros to be confirmed by a foreign institution, as we have been told by local experts who are certainly qualified and not corrupt enough. They said there's enough coal in the Valley of Shale. We have done a study that is also worth around 200 000 euros to confirm once again whether it is more appropriate to rebuild block 4 and 5 or if it is more appropriate to build a new block. Here too, it has been found that there is no savings and that the costs will be even higher if we calculate all the costs. What I'm trying to say is that I am the very advocate of renewable energy. Absolutely! But for renewable energy sources, two must be said. What was last written in Finance: "First, let's hold onto the wallet when we talk about renewable energy sources, and then consider how much real resources and opportunities in Slovenia can and are in this way." We have been working with wind power plants for some time now and some of them will probably grow, but experts say that wind energy in Slovenia is not enough. Hydrocentres – I agree, absolutely forward, medium, lower Sava; but when you mention Mura to me, I will not be with Mura! I do not want to support such an investment because it seems to me that it is too much of an intervention in the natural environment. Solar energy – okay, great. But I wonder when we're going to subsidise these things, 450 euros is being paid by the state for every kilowatt. People are coming to lobby me and to learn that they want to interfere with agricultural land, that they want to build these things and that we need to change the legislation that makes it impossible at this point. We have already talked about biogas plants today - yes, but not on agricultural land and not by extracting energy from agricultural plants. And the nuke is another one that we have left, but I think we're all thinking about it these days, given what's going on in Japan. In short, here to explain that there is no problem, we invest this money in renewable energy sources and in Slovenia we will acquire these 600 missing megawatts that block 6 could give us, completely misleading. There's something else I'd like to say that bothers me. The applicants, my colleagues, have signed what the NGO Alpe Adria Green has prepared. This NGO has just disappeared in recent weeks from the public scene. As I have been informed, their representative will now participate in the supervision and sit down in the supervisory board – and he is gone! Apparently, this is how they have shown that they are for investment only that they want to participate. Obviously, I don't know. I can't explain it to myself. They were the initiators, and for months we received messages from them, what all and how, now they've gone soft and they're gone. I would also like to say that a representative of one of the NGOs that participated in the committee meeting – because they are also divided here – has made it clear that quite a few of these organisations do not support the referendum, even though they are opponents because they are aware of the concerns and the moment in which we are. And about positive and negative things. But I think common sense must prevail. The first relates to where we are on time, where the investment is on time, how much money is already involved in this, how many Slovenian companies currently – according to my information – have already signed subcontracting contracts and are already working, and in this sense I find it simple to react irresponsiblely. And that bothers me, too. I have to say, there's no minister present today. I think that today, if we have already opened this debate on this public stage in Parliament, we need to give some relevant answers that these studies, which are still closed to us or have the status that they are only on the supervisory authorities, we do not know them, and it would be good to know what these analyses and studies say. What still seems very important to me is that this investment enjoys the full support of the local population. I have not yet noticed that there would be any initiative there in the Valley to oppose this construction; with everything that we want to put on their hearts, how they are actually deceived and not know what awaits them with this investment. There are few such energy investments, few of them, and we could be glad that this environment is actually accepting investment because it is aware that it will also benefit from this investment, that jobs will be available, that work will continue to work so that coal mines will continue to function. This socio-economic component is not good to ignore, absolutely not, but we should be glad that the local population is actually accepting investment. I want to know what this investment will do with other energy facilities. For example, Mura, what will happen to the nuke when we also place it with the position of the neighbouring country, which, we see, is absolutely opposite. I think playing with a third of Slovenian energy right now is a simple, respected colleague and colleague act of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. Get Matjaž Zanoškar ready and behind him, Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Over the past half-year, it is likely to be heard by the electorate and electorate that the policy or those responsible for making some decisions that are important to the state is that we wish to postpone these decisions to the electorate and the electorate at individual referendums. But all these referendums have a lot of time, even sometimes logical backgrounds, they are written on the basis of some request, anyone, but those who are legally entitled to the proposal for a referendum. So it's either there or the consultation referendum or the subsequent legislative referendum, etc., and in this case I don't even know what kind of referendum it would be. According to my assessment, it is simply an unrealistic work by a small group of proponents, i.e. on one side of the initiative – but the initiators are, after all, those who do not need to know the rules of procedure or the way in which we work and the way in which we decide. An instigator can be for some solutions or solutions after all, and we must, of course, give them the right to do so. However, as Members, it is our responsibility that the proposals we make are the right proposals, as our formerly said, unfortunately, late fellow Members holding water. Easy to hold water. Let me not be insulted by the proposalers, but somehow in itself I am drawn by the parallels of this proposal and events in the past days or weeks in the European Parliament, by the fact that it is an attempt at some kind of cooperation, but here it is an attempt for someone to try to enforce something on behalf of someone. I didn't say anything about corruption, I was just talking about a certain similar situation. So it is certainly at this point that, in my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for making a final decision, but on the basis of some reasoned data. I am convinced that this data is huge and that, on the basis of the information they have, it is possible to make the relevant decisions, but not only on the basis of the data that is relevant in this case. It is necessary to put all the arguments on the table and anyone other than the Government – or the Ministry of the Economy as a proponent – that is, in the end, the Government is the one in charge of the one who is responsible for proposing and deciding on the appropriate solutions. The National Assembly will soon be the one to discuss and decide important matters. Above all, we have been waiting for a long time, even today mentioned several times the national energy programme, of course with Šostani, to say with all the existing and future energy facilities involved and not to ignore the fact that we have a good energy structure in these thirds in Slovenia. And nuclear energy, or thermal energy, of Šostjanj and water energy, with work that is even smaller, of these renewable energy sources. So, on the one hand, the national energy programme and certainly in the framework of Šostanja, under TES 6, also the guarantee law. At that time, however, it will be possible for the National Assembly to decide with responsibility on matters which, of course, it is also mandated and called upon to decide. This is why I will no longer discuss it, because I think there have been arguments, both of them, quite a few already mentioned. I will certainly vote against such an unrealistic proposal and a misleading proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. [[He's not here.]] Yes, on behalf of the candidates, Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicants, I must immediately respond to Mr President's insinuations, which I appreciate very much, when he compared the presentation of this referendum with some conduct in the European Parliament and wondered who received something on the basis of the proposal. I would agree in one part that it is similar, but I would ask myself, who and which side are the bags of money, and certainly environmentalists and many experts who oppose TES do not have these funds. Even if we did, I strongly refuse that anyone would table this proposal for an advisory referendum against any payment, while in the performance of the others who actively support this investment, you will have to prove that this is not the case. So much for this part right now. But then, in conclusion, I will take all the other answers to the open questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Majhenič", to prepare Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to support the referendum, so it's only right to explain why. TŠ 6 has not yet been mentioned in the 2004 National Energy Programme, but it appeared for the first time in the October 2006 Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023 with an estimated strength of 600 megawatts. A project investment value of EUR 602 million was also foreseen and determined. The possible investment of private capital in energy was also considered, but the so-called public-private partnership was not acceptable, as in the case of the presence of strategic investors, the price should be announced in the envisaged calculation and would not increase to a budget value of EUR 1.2 billion. As we can see, the interested shrapnel lobbies shake off strategic partners and private investors with claims and views that this is a project of national interest. According to experts who are not in favour of this project, there is a claim that this is a very risky project, which today would cause about €30 million of losses per year. Although the risk of economic damage in the first five years is increasing, the management of TES and HSS [l.] is not interested. Whether the loss is expected to be covered by tax money, State guarantees, and certainly by spilling profits from other parts of the HSS [l.e.]. Surely we can ask ourselves whether TES and Coal Velenje count on you to collect all the generated profits in an electric holding company just a few decades later. And if we follow the HSS statements [l. l.], the project was guided carefully and planned, which we have to believe in, because otherwise we would not convince the coalition and anyone else from the government, even though those against, more than those for, will always prevail over the coalition number in the National Assembly and not the profession. The findings of the HSS Supervisory Board [l.l.] that certain irregularities or shortcomings have also taken place around project management are a story that is not clear to those who have been following the matter since the beginning. TES 6 only offers a minimal environmental improvement, which represents a third of the lower CO2 emissions per unit of production, and this does not meet the expected targets in the long term, especially if climate change continues, as emissions need to be reduced by 90 % by 2050 by international agreement, and this will not be achieved by TEŠ 6 with the ultimate technique and we will buy expensive coupons and increase the loss. The government should change the direction of energy policy, which would be less burdensome for the country in terms of development and social burden. A sustainable transition to reducing mining and the use of coal should be introduced, but in a way that will still ensure financial sustainability without causing major losses, shocks in the region itself. TEM 6 is not a necessity and a need for the country to ensure energy sovereignty. The system, as we have it, is built on large power plants that produce more than 300 megawatts, which is in some ways also a problem, since, at a time when we are overcoming top technology with the so-called intelligent network, it can be possible to supply fully from scattered energy sources that are safer, as well as interesting to investors. If such an opinion were to prevail, the final obstacle to photovoltaic buildings, wind power plants, gas plants, steam plants and the like would be immediately unleashed, in particular the purchase of electricity from these smaller energy plants. Today, the gas and steam power plant is 10 to 20% more efficient than the TES 6. Otherwise, we must not neglect the supply of electricity on the market that is affordable for our market. About 6 to 7 terawatt hours of electricity go through the Slovenian network annually, mainly to Italy. TES 6 is expected to produce about 3.5 terratorial hours a year. And that's the number that you could replace with cheap imported electricity, of course, if you need it at all. With electricity, we are 100% sufficient, so for now there is no panic and need for such big projects, which will cost us a lot over the years when closure is needed, and not only today, if this is necessary. TEŠ has not so far selected operators and suppliers for the sixth block of the power plant with public tendering but with direct contracts. Land works have already begun, loans have been granted and the fate of the project remains unclear. The Minister's statement that TES 6 is not economically effective is certainly a statement that further substantiates the failure of the project and that there is still a need to consider the fate of the project. And if I sum it up; TES 6 was created by the locally narrow interests of people representing an economic, social, developmental and environmentalally flawed project, but energy is not necessary and is unacceptable for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman, prepare for Darka Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u134	A few days ago, in the State Council there was a consultation on the construction of TES 6 and the group Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant endowed everyone who came, with a specially published brochure, beautiful, with very respectable authors and a large part of the content is presented under the chapter of the Section on the Project. Of course, I read this and thought about what concept to use: whether apology or apology — for the latter, of course, I made up my mind. Not one single thought about the project presented in superlatives is included in this booklet. Not a single author we meet, but professors at the university, in various articles, are found in here, but it is found such addresses as "TEŠ 6 towing horse of the Slovenian nation". That sounds very emphatically, but I've never noticed that before. And what's interesting is that the coalition doesn't! The coalition in its programme, the coalition agreement, did not write this as a towing horse of the Slovenian nation, but – also emphatically, of course, excessively – wrote how we will build about 500 megawatts of photovoltaics, which some formerly, including members of the coalition, have underestimated, czech, what we are going to do now with renewable resources. And we all signed up for this. Of course, this becomes so much more questionable when we try to answer a question or claim made by one of the Members that this project, and it also says in this booklet, is very profitable. Of course, profitability is a concept that is not absolute and must be justified in relation to something. And if it were based on this, with the price that this same speaker mentioned being paid by Italians for one megawatt of electricity, this project would, of course, be super viable. However, it would have been that our Slovenian economy would have collapsed, depending on electricity. And people would probably turn on electricity just every other day, just like they used to drive cars, because the price would rise so dramatically. I do not want to belittle what some others have written in this booklet. I admit, however, that when I am not able to think about a single critical word and one of the concerns that many have rightly presented, I have been able to think along with others. Now, here's something about what I said earlier about the Committee on the Economy. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Economy, when we discussed the subject, some referred to the Committee on the Economy to find an alibi for the construction of TES 6 and NEK 2. There are no such alibis found in the conclusions adopted by this committee. That's just not what it is. First, it must be said that if we read the magnetograms nicely and also through the conclusions, we always put an effective use of energy at the top of the agenda, this is the starting point for reflection, because the most expensive energy is the one we throw away. And we throw it away because we have double electricity consumption per unit of product – something has to be done here first. In second place, we stress, even in these conclusions, renewable energy sources, in third place in these conclusions, the technological reconstruction and restructuring of the Slovenian economy and, of course, we also mention that the benefits must always be weighed with negative effects. At one of the meetings, I think that the one that was held in March, that is, more than a year before today, on the Committee on the Economy, this meeting was held in Velenj, was somehow given an opinion on how TEM 6 is okay and of all the support. If we read the magnetograms, I took another look at what we were talking about a while ago, we can see that it wasn't exactly back then. First of all, it must be said that one year ago, there were not yet these public debates and there were as many arguments as there were in the later period. It should be said that we were sitting there with only those experts who supported TER 6. It must be said that they made introductory remarks and that those of us who spoke at that time tried to respond. Concerns were also noted during the discussion. One of the concerns was that TES 6 is not something to be placed on the world’s surface by technology. Another of the concerns was that TES 6 is referred to as some sort of natural emergency process, which we cannot avoid at all; that is simply the way it is. And whoever's discussing it over here, I'd say it's discounting against natural legality. It's not like that! The next one of the arguments or concerns was that it was probably what TES 6 was talking about, first of all, the social effect and even today we are talking about the guaranteed three thousand 500 jobs for forty years, which would have been, I would have said, even divination if we had agreed to it. And it was said that the economic effect was also questionable. Therefore, it is not possible to refer to the Committee on the Economy in the sense that only the absolute support of TES 6 projects was heard there. And there was no absolute rejection. However, those who have doubts do not talk about it – at least some – that it is necessary to stop it today and that everything is only bad, but it is our view that experts and the Government must come before us with more correct presentations than we have received so far, and let me mention that it would probably be right if the President of the Government had called a strategic council, which I do not know for how long, and I do not know why we have it then. And at my personal, written invitation, let us do so, however, so that we can hear how the various experts who learn about it will face up to now there has been no answer at all. Not that I'd say, "No, we won't! Shut up! Some people don't even try to keep us quiet anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u135	Mr. Darko Menich has the floor. Get Mr. Bojan Kontic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! On Block 6, spears are being broken, both political and professional. I have to say from the outset that I will not support this consultation. In fact, I believe that such a decision is necessary by the Government, which has everything even in its hands, has all the expert opinions and political opinions. On the other hand, if we are going to save some money, as Mr Prime Minister said last time, we are also throwing 4 million away now for such a referendum. But I would say something; the Valley of jest has been an energy valley since the 50's and that's today. For so many years we have been giving electricity, one third of electricity to Slovenia. When critical years were coming, when lakes were forming in the valley, and when the environment was destroyed, no one came to ask us how we lived there. Suddenly, civil initiatives have emerged from the centre, which now want to influence rural areas and impose their proposals and ideas. At that time, the valley was falling, the forests were falling, the lakes were forming, the earth was uncultivated, and so on. And it wasn't until the '80s that filter recovery started at the power plant that things started to improve in the whole valley. Today, I must say, this has worked out very well. No one asked us how many villages, how many settlements disappeared underwater. Where all these miners, or residents of the Shale Valley, had to go and were inhabited all over Slovenia, where they were given space. So these are the traumas that no one's forgotten about there before today. That is why it is even more important to us if the valley is already dedicated to energy and not energy itself, only for Šostjanj, but even for Slovenia, that this block 6 is realistic. In addition, see, Block 6 is economically justified, the energy and financial structure is also closed. Environmental assumptions are also appropriate. The construction of block 6 itself is already in progress. Some money has already been invested, all of it has been obtained: environmentalists, building permits for cooling towers, for chimneys, for the rest of the building, so there are no problems here. I must say that when we actively cooperated as a municipality with the Termoelectrica Šostanj by meeting from day to day, we transparently received information from the power plant and from experts and then provided this information to the environment, to all citizens. A coordination committee has been set up to receive daily information on what is happening with the construction of Block 6 at this time. Open-door days were organized, where all projects and development of TES 6 were presented. Look, this communication has also helped to ensure that the people in the Valley of Shaleska trust this building. And I think it's a phenomenon that we have an environment that supports this kind of construction. They are aware, for several reasons: that there are jobs here, that there is also economic development in the valley itself and also something else – social peace in the valley, which is already under way somewhere. Look, the national energy programme itself is not assigned, we have several types of activities that are not specified. The photovoltarics themselves: whether a building permit is required or not, or whether on agricultural land we may or may not, is inconsequential. Biogas just like that. All right, the use of manure is fine, but to use the cereals, maize and plants that are needed by the agriculture ministry in this food chain, we urgently need ourselves – so it is also an inconvenient matter. There is also confusion around wind power plants, and then there is Posavje and Mura — what will happen? We don't even know what happens to NEK. In short, there is a series of these dilemmas that will have to be solved and settled here. And in this national programme, TES 6 plays a major role. Look, whenever there's a power outage from other power plants, then it'll cover up a TES that's never been hidden. There's something else that matters. The coal that is beneath our soils in the valley is here, the domestic energy that needs to be used and the stocks that have been identified are sufficient for the operation of block 6 by 2050. This means that there is a great advantage here, these studies have also been delivered to the Ministry of Economy and to all institutions, but they do not believe in domestic experts. I don't know why. It was necessary to give the study to others, to foreign experts who had just cashed in, but they came to the same conclusions as our experts. That's how we spend some money here right now, which is not necessary. I think at the rate that's happening now, when these spears are being broken, that this has to be stopped. The government must determine on all the information it receives from the Ministry and from all experts and decide. Maybe I'd say that. Once again, the environment accepts the construction of Block 6, because we are aware of what this means at the moment. Maybe that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u137	The word has Bojan Kontic, let the mag be prepared. Radovan Žerjav. If he's not here, Mrs. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Secretary of State has left us, the Minister does not actually have time for these issues. Greetings to all who are present in the hall! My colleague Menich spoke about the experiences of the valley with these thermal energy objects. As far as I know, the chimney won't have this thermoelectric power plant, so they wouldn't misunderstand that they were getting a building permit for the chimney because they wouldn't really need it. Why do these stories happen, why such controversy, why support on the one hand, on the other hand opposition? Let me begin by saying that I do not deny anyone the right to oppose the project, that it also publicly states and argues. However, this is, of course, the ability to find the cause of non-compliance with the work of politics within the government coalition with a project called Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant. Various analyses are being obtained, all that has been said needs to be verified, all the analyses are being re-checked and, of course, it is not possible to avoid the feeling that all these studies are being commissioned in order to find as important a reason as to give up our investment, and not to get drunk with pure wine. That's probably the truth. When we talk about the relationship and definition of the government to the proposal for an advisory referendum, we have heard that the government is undecided. Nor do we formally need a definition of the government in the referendum initiative, Members and Members of Parliament, but we are the ones who are actually going to decide on this. When we hear in our answers that it's not the Ministry's business to interfere with the investment, it's slow to laugh, because that's what's actually happening all the time. And if we wake up a little bit about how the stories unfolded at a brilliant rate after the resignation of Minister Lahovnik: a replaced supervisory board, a replaced director of HSE and not HSS, as I had heard in the debate several times before. This was the basis and opportunity for the replacement of the Director of Termoelectrica Šostanj, who was replaced at the time when the project was presented to the competent agency. At the time, he was released from the supervisory council. Actually, that's not a major problem. The central problem is that we still do not have the answer to those who are most responsible for this today — despite all the analyses that have been carried out in the past. We've heard a while ago that there's not enough coal in the Shaleska Valley, but if there's enough of it by chance, it's not the burning value of the law. An analysis was commissioned, experts from abroad came in because we don't trust our profession, they examined the data, they checked the data, and they found that coal was enough. You won't believe it, even the burning value is real, as they said. It was the pure deception of Mr Kopač in talking about the burning value that talked about the lowest value, of course he ignored the highest value, I don't even resent it, but then we should talk about the average value if you're already using the data. Of course it wasn't. Of course, there were no reasons for the public to present how there was no coal and how there was no real value to the combustion plant, and there was no way to convince all politicians with this data, those who would end up deciding on the guarantee in order to stop the project. However, other analyses have been commissioned, a forensic investigation into the conduct of the procedure – we are waiting for results. I have an unwitting feeling that those who are now exploring everything in the past want to find a black duck. They want to find someone who will be accused of some mistake and say that they did the right thing, even human resources, when they replaced everything and placed those who were actually supposed to oppose the project in some way. These studies, which speak of economic eligibility, about all these stories, as far as I know – the minister, fourteen days ago she had in her bag, now I don't know if she has it on the table or anywhere else – the public still doesn't have it. It is likely that the public will require this information, at least the Committee on the Economy has requested that these studies be presented. In this case, however, the question is whether or not we are spending undue tax money in this way. Of course, this will have to be discussed on the Committee on the Economy. When we talk about the opposition of the project by a civil initiative or whatever it is called – we now have civil initiatives everywhere. Whatever we want to build in Slovenia, we have a civil initiative against. But what is the point of these civilian initiatives? Of course, they advocate their own view, their own views, but the civil initiative will never bear any responsibility. They're about to tear down the project. Of course, someone who is entrusted with management will also have to find an answer to what is right with the State and do so. But here's the responsibility, and that's what those who are going to take after us will take care of our actions. When it was said earlier about the Shale Valley, it would be logical for me, as one of the mining victims, to say so, because my household was sunk in those years when no one in Slovenia cared about how we live in the Shaleska Valley today opposed this project. But I don't mind him because I know the real situation. Since the project, which is economically, environmentally sound, has been repeatedly presented, according to the statements we have, the project is justified. Not to mention energy eligibility. And then we get an initiative to call for a consultation referendum, where people would be asked, as it says here, about the issue of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica, where the question is very misleading. "Do you agree to be included in the new national energy programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2010–2030 to build a new more than a thousand 200 million euro valuable facility?" "To be included in the 2010–2030 energy programme..." Good morning, Ministry of Economy, 29 March 2011! At least the anniversary will have to be fixed on the national energy programme, if nothing else. "Are you willing to make this investment into coal, which will produce 103 million carbon dioxide emissions during its operation by 2054?" Of course you can't do it without it! And we are aware, but at the same time no one is saying that the replacement building – the energy facility block 6, which is a replacement facility, I repeat, for all blocks from 1 to 5, which were or were still in the Chestnut plant – produced a million 400 thousand tonnes of CO2 per year, less than those facilities so far and a million tons of coal spent on the same amount of electricity. Once again, it's a substitute facility and it doesn't add up, not even CO2. And the following deceiving: "...and for which construction will be guaranteed by the state with guarantees." If the State decides to do so in the National Assembly, to guarantee or guarantee the loan guarantee paid to the European Investment Bank at an amount of EUR 440 million, I think. And you estimate that the project will be the same, and that is also agreed by a profession worth a billion and 200 million. This means, of course, that it is not a guarantee, it is a guarantee to the full, but a guarantee to the partial extent of the funds, and that it is also important because this loan is, in fact, the cheapest for these investments. Therefore, it is important for us to make a decision about it, because hiring elsewhere would mean a much higher cost. At the meeting of the committee, I heard that, indirectly, taxpayers, i.e. citizens and citizens, could end up paying this investment not through the price of electricity, but would have to return or cash out the guarantee because HSE could go bankrupt. That's what the board said. I don't think this can happen, but I'm not sure that anyone else is going to go bankrupt with the Ministry of the Economy. It is simply not possible to answer these questions to the consultation referendum. It's not possible. It's just not possible to ask people that way. And when we compare the referendum for Block 6 of the Šostjanje Thermoelectrica and the referendums on the Termoelectrica Trbovlje, let me say at this point that I also decided at that time, and even then I objected to this referendum, as I object to this today, so that there is no ambiguity in the conduct; when it comes to Trbovlje, and when it comes to the Šostanj or the building in the Shaleska Valley. The placement of the facility in the space was also mentioned several times today. You know what it means to put infrastructure facilities in space, what it means to put energy facilities in space, because we have objections in local space, and that will be more and more. There will be more opposition. On the other hand, we have an energy facility, which means a third of the electricity produced in Slovenia, which is accepted by the environment, because it is an energy environment because electricity has been produced here all the time. And we don't actually use it, there are opponents from elsewhere. Of course, once again, the rhetorical question of where these opponents have been in the past, when there were really environmental problems in this valley, is in fact pointless because we have to deal with the future, not with the past. And another mistake is that we make all the time. It is not possible to reduce electricity on the side of production if we are not successful on the side of consumption if we use more and more electricity. Nor can all assessments be based on 2008 and 2009, for example, when prices actually fell or the quantity fell, consumption fell due to the crisis we are in. We will return very soon to the consumption that was years ago, and more. There is also no one who can predict the price of electricity, and we have already heard it today, over, say, 20 years. Except for those who say it's going to be bankrupt. They are, in fact, able to accept this assessment. As I said, it is necessary to stress again, and repeatedly, that this is a replacement facility, which has been adopted in space, that it is a smart energy policy, which means one third of the thermal output, one third of the hydro, and one third of the nuclear power, including, of course, alternative sources, which at this point in the operation of Block 6 certainly cannot satisfy us in a way that replaces this block 6. I am not quite sure that this information I have heard today that we are energy independent is entirely true. I think we're also importing some electricity. And when we talked about CO2 earlier, there is probably more to be said about NO X, which is also decreasing, about the environmental impact and about all the parameters that are actually advocated by those who speak about the appropriateness of the implementation of this project. In fact, we don't even accept it today. Today we are deciding on the call for a referendum; of course, we will make the right decision when we talk about the guarantee that the country gives to rent favourable loans. Of course, it is also possible to look at Europe where thermal power plants are being built. Those who strongly oppose it would probably be surprised at this information. Actually, I'm sure they have that information. So it's about achieving the development goals where we're talking about secure electricity supply – what's more reliable than what's at home? We know the gas story, we know other stories; someone closes the pipe and gas in Slovenia is not the result of everything that gas enables. Lowering its own electricity price with a replacement block, reducing the environmental burden. In doing so, of course, it must be said that the most reduction in the environmental burden would be to say that we close all the blocks. And we stop production right now and close down the coal mine! Of course, that would cost us a lot, but it would have the best impact on the environment. But then you have to find an answer to tell us where we're going to get this electricity; one third. Then this is the essential answer! And this; can the analysis or block 4 and 5 become an alternative to building block 6? You can't. He's an expert. I think this report is also ripe for public consultation. That is also what I heard at the Committee on the Economy. The last place is to keep jobs, which is very important for this valley and that is why so much belonging to this project in our valley is non-controversial. Since this is important for maintaining jobs and for closing the mine in one foreseeable time, and by then production and the number of employees will be declining, the economy has restructured and, of course, this is the solution to the valley. Because we do not believe that otherwise it will be possible to expect something else: we have experience with Vegrad. We were dealing with Vegrad ourselves in the Shaleska Valley. I'll say it again: alone! And that's how we'll deal with jobs if anything happens on this project. It is very misleading for the Minister to say that we have a billion 200, let us put this somewhere else, and for a billion 200 we will get more jobs than you have in the valley at this point, and cities will be better working, with higher added value. It's a good night's talk, as I mentioned earlier in the morning. Why? Because these billions of euros are not on the table and it is not possible to take them off the table and say that we will do something else if Block 6 is gone. It is not possible because it is an investment and it is linked to an investment and it is acquired for that investment. If this investment is not available, there will be no billions of €200,000. They're not in the budget! These are the funds derived from this investment, whatever anyone estimates. Once again, I won't spend too much time. I refer to such a request or initiative for a referendum as being unrealistic and inappropriate for the National Assembly, but this is a matter of instigators or proponents. I will, of course, reject this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u139	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor to prepare Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My forerunner gave me a very good point. I think that today, too, opponents and advocates of this project will find it difficult to reach agreement and agree whether the project is justified or not. In this debate, I would like to express two wishes. My first wish is to discuss the fate of another energy location in Slovenia for at least half as long as we talk about the sixth block in Slovenia. In Slovenia it is not only the 6th block of the thermal power plant Šostanj. Earlier, the energy valley of Šaleška was mentioned, and also in Zasavje we are considered an energy valley; but since I am sitting in this Parliament, I hear only discussions about the TES. In Zasavje, they always ask when a new national energy programme will be put in place, and I reply that I do not know. When they ask me why he's gone, I say I don't know. Yeah, I'm probably not the Minister of Economy to answer that question. I want to say that I really want to open another discussion, another energy project, an object in Slovenia, because it is also key to the environment in which it is placed, and the future is very important for the environment in which such objects are located. My second wish, and I refer this wish to the Slovenian government – the current, not the previous or the previous one – is that, what the speakers said earlier, they would put the arguments on the table. I have to be critical here myself. In fact, I signed two initiatives, one was addressed to Minister Lahovnik, the other was addressed to Prime Minister Borut Pahor, and the answers they were were that things were ongoing and, above all, that things would unfold publicly. To this day, I have not seen these public disclosures of the studies of the documents mentioned. I think it would be right for the Slovenian public to believe that if the government believes - and I believe that it believes - that this project is justified, that it is the right project, then it is right to defend it before the Slovenian public. I don't think such initiatives as they are before us would have happened if these people had any arguments. And I believe that the Government has these arguments for this project, that it also has the profession, that those who come from this environment have them, and because they have them, it is right to open them up to the Slovenian public. Here I agree that it is wrong for the Minister of Economy to say that she has a study in her bag that proves – I don't know what. Yes, if he has them, then it is right to open this bag and tell the Slovenian public what is in these documents, what is in these studies. Because it is a fact and it is not possible to change that this investment is in fact already under way, that certain resources have been released for Slovenian companies to work for this project. As far as I know, one important company from Zasavje is doing things for this project. But, as it is said, I think it is crucial and that these discussions as well as such initiatives would be less if there were more arguments on the table. And that is the task, I agree with the current governments. As a matter of fact, I'm not going to go for those who are against or against, but I'm expressing two wishes. As it is said, my first wish is to talk in Slovenia about some other energy project, about some other energy location, because there are others. I think it was the Mura mentioned earlier and so on. And another desire - let's start operating on arguments, studies, with everything the Government has done, what the experts have done so far. I agree with my colleagues who said it's hard to step back, but let's be honest. As it is said, I am also a coalition Member, and I have addressed two initiatives to my government, to our ministers, if you will, and I have expected the right answers. If we have these answers, and I'm sure we have them, it's only right to open them up in front of the Slovenian public. But just swing it and say that they don't have exactly those who support, and they don't exactly have those who oppose – the truth about the 6th block of Thermoelectric Shoštanj is probably not black and white, we will agree, but if we have arguments, we are responsible to present them to the Slovenian public. I have to say, personally, I do miss the Minister today, too. I think that if the 6th block of the Czech Power Plant is a key energy project in Slovenia, it is right that it would be here today and it would be right to answer when the national energy programme will arrive in this Parliament. These are the debates that I myself miss, which I expected a year ago, and it has been said that the national energy programme is coming into this Parliament – I do not know if it is already on its way, is already at the door and when it will arrive in this Chamber. I think that the sooner we answer these questions, the less such initiatives and the more bile debates. The sooner we answer all the dilemmas, the better. Now two years to work and here I refer again to my government, not to any other, to pretend that we see nothing, to hear nothing See, even the arguments of TES opponents are probably legitimate and it might be right to listen to them, and also those who support this project. [[...]] I'll finish here. I've expressed two wishes and it's much easier to operate on arguments. I am convinced that the Government has arguments for this project, as a matter of fact, the investment is under way. If he has them, he should present them; today, immediately; including all the studies, projects that were made, but not that these studies, these projects lie in the bag of a minister. This seems unacceptable to me in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u141	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to prepare Matthew Frangež, if not Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. It was written in 1999, I think the President of the Government was now the late Dr. Drnovšek, and at that time it was said and a preliminary legislative referendum on the life and existence of the Termoelectric Trbovlje 3. It was signed, the referendum fell, the Thermoelectric Trbovlje 3, which would also be a replacement facility, did not. But, O.K. I live in the savanna valley, we often call it talkative that it's a savannah energy pool, our dear neighbors live in a silly energy territory: there are knapsacks, here are knapsacks, they all went to school, they jumped over the skin and we were, and I think there are friends. Both were mining coal, both producing electricity for this country. After 1999, a lot has changed, five million tonnes of brown coal stocks in the Trbovje region, with the help of our colleagues and colleagues in this Parliament, we have barely elected a short extension of the mine closure law, so that not five hundred people can go on the road, but only 200 can go. And the mine will start closing this year. This is the country’s decision — yes! When we saw the draft national energy programme, in addition to the coal mine Trbovlje Hrastnik with five million stocks of net coal, 6% of the power generation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje power plant disappeared. She's gone. She's gone. It is planned to be closed, with the country investing in direct investment of thirty million, twenty for the desalination plant from 2005 to 2010, and ten for the unloading station. Thirty million euros for TET to shut down? Who has the staff, produces 6% of the energy, logistics, doesn't need an intervention in space! And believe me, I sincerely want and will afford huge and trebwell buttons to produce coal for as long as possible, because I sincerely want all blocks of the thermal power plant Shoštanj to work for fifty more years; but I also want the trebwell thermal power plant TET to work for at least twenty more years. What is the difference between me in Zasav and an equal, honest, good, working man in the Valley of Shale? In what? The thermoelectric plant Trbovlje would need only – I will just say – €70 million for the renovation of the boiler and would work for the next 20 years while establishing for this money, 70 million, the remote heating of the town of Trbovlje and thereby burdening the municipality of Trbovje for the payment of subsidies to those people who are paying costly heating today. I believe that the Valley of jester too is what I require, but I don't know why it makes such a difference. Why is it not a problem with 600 million to jump to a billion 200 for an investment, and 70 million is a crazy big problem, which, if it happens as planned in the draft NEP, will close 220 direct jobs and, listen well, calculated and verified thousands of 500 jobs that are indirectly linked to the thermal power plant Trbovlje. And what can I say to actually get close to this particular content? Who in this room can tell me by all accounts that I am a cosigner of the request for a research referendum? No one has the right to read this to me! Nobody! It is advisory, and if people say yes – at all costs and with all the other things that are going on – I will be happy. But I don't know why people said "no." I don't know why not today. No greater harm or benefit would have been done to Trbovlje with thermal power plant 3 than it would have or would have been beneficial to TEŠ 6. That's why, Bogdan Barovich, I signed on request for an exploratory referendum. That's why! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u143	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Mr. Rudolf Petan will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I find this duality interesting. Colleagues from the opposition sometimes have a pedagogical effect on this government coalition of double criteria. I have witnessed this on my own several occasions on the European Union Affairs Committees, when we are sending our delegations to various Councils, especially the Environment Council, where we are practically every month repeating some of the mantras about how we are going to solve the climate; how we need to strongly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, because otherwise we will all be burned together. I do not entirely attribute to this the cataclysmic dimension, but the fact is that climate change is happening and, despite the fact that in Slovenian politics some still like to deny these phenomena – they are caused by man by his activity. We know exactly where the main greenhouse gas generators are in Slovenia, and we know what our own, to a large extent, has a role to play in this. I would like Slovenian policy to be able to see this data and be able to commit itself to wanting to have another picture and another vision of this country. There is ambiguity in the fact that once the high declaration objectives try to apply, we get the embarrassment that we are facing today. I am not in favour of the 6th block of the Heat Power Plant of Scotland and I am not prepared to support it for anything in the world, because I think it promises the wrong picture of our country's energy future. It's a radically wrong picture! I would like to be able in this country, despite the fact that other technologies have their shortcomings, an open debate. An open debate on what kind of energy we represent in this country and how, in the example of the most advanced countries around the world, we can see this future in decentralisation, in smaller units of renewable energy production that cannot respond to all that TEM 6 gives us. However, it can respond to many of these challenges to a large extent. TER 6 is the one who promises us continuity of supply. Mag. Stane Merša of the Centre for Energy Efficiency at the Jožef Stefan Institute said at some climate consultation that TEŠ 6 is very good at security of supply; that it is very good at exploiting domestic fossil resources – it is said to be coal; that it is good at quality of supply; that it is good at price resistance; that it is neutral in terms of price acceptability; and that it is negative in terms of environmental impact. We know what's going on with the atmosphere. We know that today we are radically over those limits that climate scientists regard as sustainable, so that the process of climate change that does not take place up there, but we feel them right now here, in longer droughts, in the insurmountability of water, in the melting of glaciers, in the melting of both halves, in the promise of more windwaters, not least after the radical change in our landscape. You know, in the 19th century, and ever before, in the Slovenian countries, iron began to grow early and they needed a lot of coal. In order to provide a cheap source of coal, many cut the Slovenian landscape and then replaced the landscape with spruce, which grew the fastest and provided a relatively cheap source for the coal, later the beach and later the iron industry. So today, Slovenia is also in positions that are not suitable for this, mass-fed with spruce. This spruce will be extinct in the beds where it is growing today, because it will not be able to adapt to the rising temperatures of our climate precisely this climate belt, where Slovenia, which will be substantially drier, is located, with a significantly more unstable climate. And it might be worth another look at that exhibition entitled "Slovenia 50 Plus", which does not promise a constitutional majority after the next elections, but promises a terrible scenario, if I think about it, are scary scenarios both, a terrifying scenario of the country's image of what Slovenia will look like, how it will be nice to fish in the middle of Tartini's market, or how it will be nice to walk around naked mountain planets. I suggest that this scenario, which is not science fiction, but is a fact, we start to actively resist. I was the author of the declaration of the National Assembly on the active role of Slovenia in the fight against climate change. As the head of my delegation was then Bojan Kontič, Bojan Kontič was first signed under that declaration. Under a declaration within which we were able to reach a political compromise of 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in this country by 2020. What a ghost! The future is therefore in small decentralised units. What this country should ask itself in valleys such as the Zasavje or the Shaleska Valley is how it will restructure these valleys. The German land of Brandenburg even built its history on excellent technologies — digging coal. Oh, look at the fragment. That's where the coal ran out! And in the late 1980s, they set up an ambitious restructuring plan. We see this ambitious restructuring plan today in the form of Brandenburg, which is the location of the world's largest producer of technology for windmills and windmills themselves, in the world. Renewable energy sources. Experts say that this country is rich in renewable energy – but what are we actually doing about it? Subsidies to encourage the production that is growing, which has an entrepreneurial interest, to come from. Bureaucratic procedures are because the regulator in this area is extremely long and lasts even half a year or more. Therefore, we artificially limit the volume of trailer power for such facilities, which have even more potential, significantly more megawatts than one megawatt, to the extent that it can be integrated into the network today. Let's put some pressure on that. God does not let us grow up according to this standard! Maybe that's when it turns out we don't need TES 6. God forbid. Smart grids, smart grids. To put it simply: that when my electric car is still, I will attach it to the network and in the corners my car will transmit energy to the network or my laptop or any electrical device that I have, so that the network will only regulate its internal needs after its operation so that we will be able to satisfy the spikes so that we do not need to import expensive electricity in the tips. We're not working on it! A few days ago, an expert in this field told me that Eles is doing nothing in this area because everyone knows that we are on the safe side, since we have TER 6, we do not have to try. They say, and to a large extent I agree that TES 6 is of exceptional social importance. But you know, I come from Maribor, where in 1990 and in a few years, virtually all industry collapsed, and significantly more jobs than these three thousand actually lost 800. Did anyone then say that they would come with a 1.2 billion-euro investment to solve this situation? No! No! You left Maribor in the clearing at the time, and he had to get rid of himself, with great pains. He's still feeling that crisis today. He's still feeling that crisis today! I understand that if you take some perspective from some region, you have to give it back to her. But let's figure out 1.2 billion euros divided by 3,000 jobs. Any region would only dream of such an incentive. And finally, who pays for it? If we look at what the calculation is for the financing of this sixth block, we see: equity resources, 106 million – TES, 297 million, we round 300 million – HSE, EB’s European Investment Bank’s loan – 335 million, the European Bank’s loan for reconstruction and development and business banks – 164 million, and GEN’s and HSE’s loan – 200 million, which is already slightly out-dated. Do you know at what cost we produce energy on the Drava River? 23 Euros per megawatt hour. We produce 47.8 euros in TES today after a megawatt hour. The projections for the 6th block worked, I think, on the number 84 or 90 euro per megawatt hour. Who's hiding the difference? Slovenia is practically the only country I know to finance fossil energy from renewable energy such as this, for me, precious Drava. We finance carbon technology from this! I know that TES 6 cannot be prevented, and I have accepted it, so today I will not support this referendum, because I do not think it can be prevented because those who advocate this project have the right to prevent this project because it is already in place. Where were you two years ago when naive young Members wrote only some parliamentary initiatives, such as the Anti-Corruption clause of the Sixth Block on 19 January 2010, and the concerned letter on the future of Slovenian energy on 7 October 2010, and the Government's request to prepare an alternative study for other sources of energy, a scenario without TEŠ on 6, 24 February 2010, a request for modernisation of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj without the construction of the sixth block, according to the Repowering method, 12 November 2010 and so on? Again and again we get the answers that the Members of this Chamber are probably used to: "No, it's not going, it's not going!" In fact, they say, "Don't be afraid of me, be quiet, for we don't have you here!" I know that TES 6 is not comparable to any other similar investment in Europe. But in Poland there is one significantly larger thermal power plant, Belchatow is called where they also had similar embarrassments. They noted that they were producing inefficient energy, that this energy was very dirty and they wanted to change it and they decided to do so called repowering and for one tenth of the price. Similar effects have been achieved for €180 million. I am aware that things are not completely comparable, that this can also be a little misleading, not intentional, but just for illustration that the same goals can be achieved, a radical reduction in discharges, equal efficiency of supply, and a cheaper supply to be provided in another way. Today, the Chinese are investing a lot of money in this because they know that they have a lot of coal to answer the question of how they will exploit this coal without burning the planet. And they put a lot of money into it. And I am sure that in 10 years' time in the world, technologies that will allow us to use the giant lignite in a significantly smarter and cheaper way than we are promised to use this TES 6. I also understand the Knap tradition and respect it. As a city, I like it very much, both in my history and in my current momentum. Even after they know how to walk together in the Valley of Shale, I must say that with great admiration I miss it in my town. But you know, if the prospect of good jobs is that we will send people for another 30 years, I don't know how many 10 meters or 100 meters underground, and then I don't know if I understand exactly what quality of life and quality jobs should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u145	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor to prepare Mr Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We've heard a lot about TES 6. I'd add something, but maybe from another angle. First thing we're even talking about. TER 6 yes, but what kind of facility is this? It's 600 megawatt block, 600 megawatts of power that will need to burn about 2 million and a half tons of lignite a year. That means 5 tons every minute. 5 tons of lignite will burn on average every minute. What does 5 tons mean? Those of you who have a longer EMHO will remember that sometimes when we smoked coal, we used 5 tons of lignite for a year. That's gonna burn in one minute. So much for comparing what we're talking about. Personally, I have a very positive attitude towards referendums. I don't think that's something you need to be convinced about. Another thing I'd like to say. I also agree with the consumption of domestic energy, domestic energy sources, but all of them, it's from the coals, and to those harmless, even pure ones. This is called renewables, hydropower, solar energy, including wind energy. The next thing I want to say is that we do not have a national strategy in this area. We don't have it. But I hope with all my responsibility to say and say that even if we had it, I would count nothing in this government because I would have done things my way anyway. This is also evidenced by the debate that we are witnessing today when we are already in the ruling coalition, and this is not an accusation, it is only a finding that all are against everything, not just the parliamentary group against the parliamentary group, but already the parliamentary groups in the ruling parties are not united. It's all against everything. I can also say with full responsibility that something strange has been going on so far. That this is a carbon object that is less environmentally friendly, I will say, even if we use modern technology, which is positive, it is still a less environmentally friendly facility, but all environmentalists have been silent as fish until the building permit was issued. However, when the building permit was issued, they began to advertise and had comments, first quietly and then louder. But what's even more interesting, and even at the time that this project has progressed so far, we can almost say that it can't be stopped, but it was the greens or environmentalists or environmentalists who were clearly but the priorities against all clean energy sources, against the Mura hydropower plants, against the lower Sava hydropower plants and it was stalling, even now it is not working as it should, against solar collectors, that conditions should be tightened instead of being facilitated against wind power plants. Interestingly, against wind power plants – the cleanest source of energy – environmentalists are against. Now tell me if this isn't the wrong world. It's a pretty bad world. Now that the TER 6 is so far away, it probably doesn't make sense to stop it, but now they've kind of come out that even TER 6 isn't all right. Why just now? Why didn't they call three years ago when this was planned, two years ago when it was still time? No, they were quiet back then. Now they're even against clean energy sources. If anyone can explain to me why this is so, then I can really tell him he's a wizard. I obviously can't imagine this any different than I can imagine that in all of this, in this story, and if you want this referendum, and I don't criticize those of you who have collected signatures, that it's a game, that I don't say bluff. As far as the referendum is concerned, I would say it is a little surprising that he came from a party that did not have a positive attitude towards referendums in general. When we proposed a referendum, it was immediately obvious: "You will lose, I don't know, what, 3 million euros. Isn't that a shame, would you rather do something else?" Now, all of a sudden, this TES 6 referendum is not crucial at all. But it's some kind of consultation, asking people what they think about this. But it has no decisive influence at a time when it is practically too late. I would also say that, even those who are signatories, there is no unity in those parliamentary groups to the approach to the construction itself and also to the referendum itself. I think it's a game, but here I'm not just thinking about those who signed for the referendum, but more broadly. I am also joining those who have written down that it is somehow a conflict of two lobbyes, red and orange. It's just a parable. But we can probably figure out what this is all about. I personally think that the whole thing is a little bit unrealistic, that the government should adopt a strategy and clearly tell us which direction we will go, what will be the consequences if we go into this huge investment that will "eat" 1.2 billion euros. But according to experience, in Slovenia that amount has never been valid, at least lately no, so I'm afraid that one, one whole, will still grow strong so that there will be no mistake on the first decimal to make a change there instead of 1 that there will be something else – after experience. What this means for Slovenian energy policy in general, what it means next, what it means in 3, 4, 5 years from now, or whether we will also go to the construction of alternative sources, is pure resources, because if we do not, we will be punished by the European Union, despite the fact that energy policy, I think, is not because of the European Union, but because of ourselves. But the punishment will come from the European Union. That's why I think all this playing about TES 6 is a little bit unserious, as I think our environmentalists' unserious approach, which opposes clean energy sources, but here they were quiet all the time when it was a carbon facility, and only now they've come forward when it's too late. I would rather have answers to these questions from the Government, because I think the Government is the one who should be called and is called to say clearly that the energy policy will be such, we have come to some crossroads. It is necessary to say clearly, to come to Parliament, to have a discussion and to conclude the matter. This game does not seem good to me, but it is certainly harmful to Slovenia both environmentally and financially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u147	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Mr. Guido Kres, if not, it's Dr. Vinko Gorenak's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your word and a nice greeting to all present! If I continue where my colleague Petan finished – this game is harmful for Slovenia from an ecological and economic point of view. It should be known, however, that the former head of the Slovenian electricity industry, so to speak, Mr Zagozhen and former Minister of Economic Affairs Mr Vizjak were the ones who started the game. And this fight here is not between the oranges and the reds, it can be between the greens and the blacks, as far as energy sources are concerned, and that here the oranges, at least some, would want to correct the mistakes of the blacks, which the reds were happy to continue because they were in their interest if we were already speaking in parables. Today, as one of the key things that is important for the future of energy in this country, was the economic minister's bag, which contains the studies that we urgently need in order to decide. Why can't the Minister of Economics put these studies on the table, colleague Župevc? Maybe you know more than I do. Because the HSE Supervisory Board has placed a code of confidentiality on them. Who has suspended the HSE Supervisory Board lately? Was that the secretary of commerce? She wasn't. It was a capital investment management agency. Is it true? It's true. What did Finance Minister Križanič tell you in your parliamentary group, how this agency, whose members of the council agency, is it? Are you kidding me? No, no, no. He used another term. And you know exactly which one. He was happy to tell you. And also the permits that are now being given, let's say, construction permits that were issued a week ago. Did the Minister of the Environment put some heavy pressure on the Minister of Economy? No! No! He's been betrayed by the Minister of Finance for a lot of pressure. He'll be able to tell you that himself if he wants, and the members of the government. As far as I'm concerned, my colleague Kontiè probably knows that as well. So who's kidding around here? Who here doesn't want things to be clarified and let me know all the facts on which we can make decisions? And now there is no question whether we are some here who are looking for a reason to reject this investment and do not want to pour pure wine. That is exactly what we want to do — pour ourselves some clean wine and ask ourselves where to ask ourselves, at the beginning, where were the reasons for this investment? Is there any national energy programme in Slovenia that foresees the construction of TEŠ 6? It doesn't exist. Then why are we doing this? What kind of predispositions? And Comrade Kontič here used the principle of reverse evidentiary burden. We've been trying to make what you've been doing for a long time with good intentions, because you know best what's good for Slovenia, you're the one who's ugly. Instead of asking ourselves first, do we even need this investment? Do we want such an energy future? My colleague Frangež well explained the structure of Slovenian energy production and the possibilities we do not want to take advantage of. My colleague Kontič also said that nothing is done on consumption. Yes, of course not! Why not? Go see how many government officials are employed where they are engaged in electricity saving and how many are employed where they are engaged in electricity production. Inadequately there are more where production is concerned and, of course, we are accelerating consumption in order to increase demand so that there are reasons for new power plants. Makes sense. The funds allocated to the Eco-Fund are also not comparable to those allocated to the development of the gas pipeline in Slovenia, the second, third, terminals, what else do I know, and the new TEC, not least. So it's logical that our structure is the way it is. Mr Frangež also said that the production regulator for small hydropower plants is undernutrition. Of course it is! It has to be. In case it turns out that there is more to be done about it, some alternative energy programs would finally have some real basis. More than a hundred, four hundred or so applications are due at the Ministry of Environment and Space for small hydro power plants. And it's not about any hydropower plants that would be a major intervention into space. It's hydropower plants that would have been created where decades ago or centuries ago saws and mills stood and would have exploited this country's water resources in the way that generations before us have done. Why isn't that possible? Because the entire investment potential of the Slovenian electricity industry, which is largely generated by Drava power plants from renewable water sources, wants to be diverted into one single investment. The rest of them have no chance, and if we move on like this, they'll never have a chance. And the debate we have today, of course, is a substitute for all the debates that should have already taken place and be the basis for the national energy plan. And they weren't there. And this one, I hope it's not the last one, because it can't be the last one, because if we make a deal today, we're gonna make a bad deal. Even this whole point of review is very much in place and there is nothing irresponsible about the fact that we have proposed a call for an exploratory referendum. Of course, financing procedures for such large investments must run transparently. A billion and 200 or 300, 400 is as much as we pay every year from an integrated budget to a pension fund. It looks like we're going to a referendum on pension reform, and it's only one year before we can talk about another solution to our pension fund. So we talk about approximately the same amount for about the same length of time — for one year. By saying so, and colleague Petan, I don't know whether he doesn't want to or can't understand that we have subsequent legislative referendums and consultations. This one's consultative. This is not the referendum that we mentioned in the party Indeed in our document on blockades, because it does not block anything with anything that would be legal matter because TES is not legal matter, TES is not even in the national energy plan to understand each other. TES is something that happened to us by accident, so it seems, because there is no document that would command us to do it immediately and to that extent. We have never really talked about this energy policy. The consultation referendum is not the same as the subsequent legislative referendum. It can be moved in one way or another, nothing will cause the current legislation to suffer. As far as the referendum day is concerned, consultation referendums could also be considered, but for subsequent legislative ones it is different because they also have different consequences than consultative ones, which are not binding. In the opinions of the parliamentary groups, we could hear a great deal that the ongoing investment should not be stopped, although we could also hear that other countries have not only closed their investments, but those already completed, in the case of Austrian, German, Italian nuclear power plants, because people have decided to do so because of ecological developments. In this case, it may also be due to economic conditions. And when you talk to a lot of people about this being a question to which the profession has to answer. He doesn't want to give it or he doesn't know it or he doesn't want it. Not that he doesn't have the time and opportunity to introduce him. As I said about these studies carried by the Minister of Economy with the mark in his bag, because HSE has secretly affixed the label to them because he is the contracting authority of these studies and does not want things to be really public. I don't know who's moving around here. I certainly don't. In my firm belief, the government is unable to make a credible decision because of the interesting, local, political reasons, and I take this proposal as a help to the Government to get any impulses, to decide sooner and to see it better as part of one of the same decision-making processes on the fate of the investment in TEŠ 6, and consequently on what Slovenian energy should be and what the structure of the Slovenian electricity industry should be. It is not about the torture of Parliament; we have already discussed in this Chamber a number of more painful topics that are less important for our future. We have devoted a lot of time to our past, what is left of it, to our present, to the future we have talked about a few times. Today is the moment when we talk about the future and, thank God, there is at least such a moment. The question is whether this profession that we have can give us relevant answers to everything we want to know because it is the profession that has brought us into this situation. Things are pretty clanly divided and it's hard to get out of this vicious circle. Therefore, it seems to me that our research referendum is a good way to somehow cut through this practice and to start looking at our energy future with different and more realistic, heavier eyes. The debate, of course, opens with this, but we need to know that if we decide to finance TEŠ 6, we will close down other paths that Slovenian energy might have taken in alternative reality and I don't think it's too soon or too late for that. Maybe it's too late for someone to make a specific investment, but I believe that for a lot of things, in a lot of ways, this dilemma is a little too fast. But if we are talking about investments that will not only financially impose environmental burdens on this country for many decades, it would be good to think about these things with the heads of our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u149	Mr. Bojan Kontic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I was mentioned and I'm answering. About the referendum. Well, if you want a consultation referendum, it would make sense to suggest the question: Are you in favour of stopping building block 6? This would be the correct question and also a very clear answer for citizens and citizens. It's about the restructurings and the secrecy. I hope it's not so secret that we'll never know what these studies brought. It is interesting, however, that what the studies have said is secret, but it is not secret what the Ministry representatives said about the quantities of coal, stocks and value of fire, and it was also by law secret, in fact confidential. And they invited foreigners from Germany to come to inspect the stocks of coal in Slovenia. And that was classified, too, and that confidentiality just faded. But now that the data is in a way that doesn't match, the documents are classified. Of course, I understand that. And when there was talk about restructuring the economy, please don't teach me how to restructure the economy in the Shaleska Valley. And it's not just energy in the Shale Valley. Have you ever heard of Gorenje and perhaps another irrelevant company in Slovenia that comes from the Valley of Shale? I'm asking you to think about what you're talking about and when you're talking about restructuring the economy! If there were once five thousand people employed in the coal mine or in this giant, if you can call it that, and five million tons of coal was stockpiled, it is now slightly less amassed with many fewer people employed in the coal mine. There are about four hundred of them, and now compare this number and where these people have gone. Even my daughter's company. And it would be interesting to look at the results of these subsidiaries with external realization [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u151	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u152	I have three minutes for the replica, don't I, Mr. Vice President? There I see it's 2.13, now you've taken half a minute from me. But, well, it doesn't make sense, because I've already told my story before, I'm just asking you nicely to operate on the data they're holding. And when you are concerned about the fate of the Shale Valley, then I suggest you help find the right solutions, but above all I don't want advice just as ad hoc and from the tables, as it was said, about a billion 200 million euros, which will not be safe in this valley if this project falls because this money is not there because it is linked to investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u153	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Next up will be Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Again, people don't know why we're here or what we're talking about. They are a little confused, however, because usually the situation is such that what we are talking about on this side is criticized by them, or vice versa. But today is a great day, and that is clear. We are therefore here today because a group of Members, two, four, six, seven, headed by Mr Slapnik, has requested that a consultative referendum be signed, which means a non-binding, costing 4 million euros, in order for citizens to decide whether or not to build TES 6 at all. That's what we decide today. But, look, TER 6 is already building. I don't know how many millions have been invested in TES 6; that's what Mr Kontic knows and is, I think he said. And TES 6 was fine with the previous government and everything was fine with the current government while Minister Lahovnik was economic minister. Then a new minister comes, this is Mrs Radiceva, but in a moment, it is as if he cut off, with TES 6 everything is wrong. There is a need for €270,000 to prove that huge coal is not good. And then this study, and everything else, shows that the giant coal is fine, and the minister puts it in the bag. He doesn't come to us, he doesn't send us a secretary of state who's obviously been with her for five weeks. I was with Minister Matthew for a year, and you told me I left too quickly. Now it's five weeks or something. But we're moving on. TEM 6 is working, and we are expected to discuss whether or not to call a referendum. People should therefore decide whether to continue doing this or not. But the money that's already gone is obviously out of the question. But I want to go back. Madam former leader of the parliamentary group said that Alpe Adria Green was miraculously born, this is a civil initiative that started waving how TES 6 should be stopped. Well, then this civil initiative came to the National Assembly, apparently to the proponents, and then the proponents applied for a referendum. I hope that you have completed all the forms for the anti-corruption commission, so that we do not have any of the problems that Mr Yuri is currently facing. I think you've done it, if you haven't, and I'm calling Mr Klemenčič to see if you've fulfilled it. So you obviously threw one of the things called civil initiative on paper to get it to a referendum. I hope it's under the roof or Mr Klemenčič will check. But, look, I've got a few more problems I'm gonna tell you. Many times on my website, I write something about the Really Group, because it's about me too. But he won't do that anymore. Why? Because when I started to study earlier when I was looking at these signatories and sitting here in the Zares Group, I actually realized that I had two or three Members of Parliament for a year and a half, so it wasn't for real, but two or three Members of Zares. This is Mr Slapnik usually, Mr Rozjej, and then the list stops. And even today, that is the situation. The first-signed initiator is here, Mr Rozjej is here too, Mr Kek is no longer here, and there is none of the other signatories, only one I see. So they're ashamed. Why are they embarrassed? They are ashamed because all the parliamentary groups sitting here intend to reject this proposal. This is also justified and only logical and only wise. And if any day is a smart vote, today will be a smart vote. Just today, this could happen that we will decide not by political criteria, coalition: opposition, but that we will decide by common sense. There won't be anything else. But look, Mr. Slapnik, there's something I'd like to tell you. Someone was talking about pure wine earlier, and I'd say it even more clearly now. For a long time, I have observed that some proposals are indeed coming in the Group of Members, which are not in the function of real life and reality, but are in the function of the pear path of a drowning party. I'm very sorry, I'm terribly sorry that it's only today, because I've already talked to the government a year and a half ago about the fact that they're running the government in the essence of an outsider, but the one who got the most votes, that's Mr Pahor, not. And that's a confirmation today. But I hope that sooner or later those who run the coalition will know that. All these moves are in a pear sense. And if we now calculate the following, this move is also in terms of pierre, to come 15 seconds on television. You know how important this is! Fifteen seconds a member on TV, smiles and is seen by the whole of Slovenia. And that's what you've done with this initiative. Now let's add it up. Five hours, ladies and gentlemen, five hours times 90 Members is 450 hours, you're dividing by 175 hours of work, and you're going to get 2.57 per Member's salary. For five hours we will discuss what we will get for a gross salary here, sitting Members, €12,000.500. And now we're gonna say no. But it's okay. Look, we criticised Mr. Pahor, that's on our side, and the media was critical, and we said that in 20 minutes he went to take pictures in the United States, and now we're getting a prisoner from Guantanamo. But look, the prisoner is going to be or won't be, I don't know, but sooner or later he's going to work and go to work and I think he's going to return something to this country, and if he's going to be here, he's going to return something. But look, the country, Mr Slapnik, but now, for 15 seconds, she's going to spend 12 thousand 500 euros on television, which means you're more expensive than Mr Pahor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u155	Mr Slapnik has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I hope to catch Mr. Gorenak before he escapes the hall. Indeed, this extremely intelligent performance has proved where Mr Gorenjak's intellect goes, and I myself wonder why he is repeatedly engaged on his website with me and his colleague Rože. But I would briefly, because I don't have much time as a proposalr, I would say no, or I would say no, that after eight years we discussed for the first time in this assembly such an important investment. I think this is the achievement that this is a good thing, that this investment, which will cost this country more than a thousand 200 million euros, and that if we calculate it in the minutes we've spent, we'll see how much a minute was worth.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u157	Mr Janko Weber has the floor, followed by Mrs Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. In calling for a consultation referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Heat Power Plant Šostanj, I think it must be said, however, that this is a question which is by no means part of the referendum. I think we have enough knowledge, at least I hope that we can decide and figure out for ourselves how much coal we actually have at our disposal in Velenj. We also have a thermal power plant, which is also located there for this purpose, and not least, I think we can all find that we need energy. If we do not take advantage of these potentials of our own, then it is really important to ask why we should become dependent on other external energy suppliers if we have our own raw materials and power plants at our disposal. It is true that an extremely high contribution is needed for the thermal power plant to be modernised, but this is also the goal of what we are talking about to reduce emissions, in order to ensure, in the long term, the stable economic development of the entire region, and not only the regions, but also throughout the country. It is a stable supply of energy throughout the electricity system, thereby improving the overall economic picture in Slovenia. I think there is no secret if I say that when we talk about renewable energy sources and when we try to build wind power plants, we run into a civil initiative that says, "no, but this in Slovenia in those locations where you know it, we can't have it." I don't think we're far from being able to see a nuclear power plant as an object that needs to be shut down as soon as possible. And if we close the power plant in Velenje and then we can only connect to this gas system or the southern flow as planned, I think we can talk about becoming an energy-dependent country. That certainly can't be our goal. I will not support this proposal to call for a consultative referendum on the construction of the block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj 6 alone. I think that we must first and foremost be aware that this is primarily an intervention in the economy, in jobs and that we do not have the answer. Such an important solution cannot be the subject of referendum discussions, but of professional debates, and if the law is therefore to be adopted for the sole solution of a policy decision as such. But actually, the decision has already fallen here. The costs have been incurred, the investment is practically ongoing. And if any question needs to be cleared within the building itself, it can, of course, be cleaned and completed as soon as possible. I think this is in the interest of all the economy and also of all electricity consumers in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u159	Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor to prepare Mr Janez Ribič. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say that it seems to me to be thinking and to be doing a campaign to call for a consultation referendum on something that is already in more than one-fifth of the resources needed to carry out the Termoelectrica Šostanja 6 money spent, is a senseless and very risky action for me. Let's say today we decide that we will confirm this referendum, because it is a consultation referendum, it is not necessary for the National Assembly and later the Government to take it into account, but it would be really strange if the consultative referendum said TES 6 no, but we would still take the investment forward. Then what would happen? Contracts are signed, a substantial part of the money is spent and we wouldn't continue the thermal power plant. An action for compensation by the contractor chosen, however he has already been selected. I don't think this is how we can play about such important things. When it was time, it was very clear that when we put on the scale of the existing blocks of Thermal Power Plant Šostanyj and the new TEŠ 6, four blocks are shut down and that it is only working as a cold reserve, that is to say, when it is necessary, only Block 5 that emissions are significantly reduced, that energy production is significantly higher by unit of emissions, to replace virtually all five things so far and so on, that we do not talk about such things. However, I must say that I am offended in some way, in fact, to force me to think about offering, with my voice, citizens and citizens of Slovenia an opportunity, not an opportunity, but an obligation to decide, in fact, a matter that has already been decided and in which cash flow has already begun to flow. I think it's unacceptable to do that. It's like I'd go, take a loan, get a loan, and then I'd say, no thanks, but now I don't want to pay you back my loan, and I won't talk to you anymore. Every bank will say, listen, and you're a little over wood. I think the suppliers of equipment and performers could say that this country is over wood. In the midst of an ongoing investment, we are going to ask citizens and citizens whether they agree with this investment or not. That's one thing. That's another thing. This also reminds me a little bit about how we talk about carbon dioxide emissions, dust particles, sulphur dioxide and so on, and we never ask ourselves why we decided in the National Assembly not to allow the construction or installation of a gas terminal in Cyprus. A gas terminal that, in combination with a gas thermoelectric power plant, would allow the disposal, if you say so, of liquefied carbon dioxide in the now-established deposits in Norway or elsewhere. This combination would reduce the amount of carbon dioxide emitted to 0 from the Chestnut plant. Unfortunately, you have confirmed our country's decision not to go to the gas terminal. Nobody thought about all the implications of such a decision, as we did not think, as it all appears, about the implications of the decision, how in no time will we reduce carbon dioxide emissions or carbon dioxide equivalent by 40%, that is twice as much as the entire European Union had planned at that time. That's great! We're very big in words, but when we have to go into action, we usually run out. I will not vote for this referendum because it seems irresponsible to place the responsibility for such decisions on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. This seems irresponsible to me, given that I am quite skeptical about the use of fossil fuels, but as long as we have fossil fuels in the house, if we say so, as long as these are the only fossil fuels we have, if we're already on, because we just don't have oil, gas and all that stuff, but now we're going to say, no, we're going to give it up and we're going to import electricity from someone who's also using fossil fuels to produce electricity. When we are skeptical of a source of energy, then let us think about what we will bear as a result if we do not decide on this option, which is the closest one to the reach of the hand. Nobody should tell me that I am not environmentally aware, that I am not thinking in the direction of the sustainable development of our country, society and so on, because I am thinking that we need to do something so that we can follow consumption, the growth in energy consumption. At the same time, however, we need to do everything we can to reject energy consumption and we will then be able to provide sufficient energy resources with this power plant for years to come, so that we do not spend disproportionately much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u161	Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, Mr Jože Tanko will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, one can't believe that one of the government's parties is affording such a discourse that it employs the whole Parliament with some stupid proposal for a referendum despite all the other problems that are happening in this country today. What one is actually capable of doing for self-promotion is simply amazing. However, I know that there have been hundreds of words, dilemmas, controversy, positions within circles that are at the professional level and also at the political level, and what one of the parties, or really, who does not know how to survive until the end of this term, actually allows. Look, unfortunately, we don't have an energy program where we know exactly what and how, and so on with hydro, wind energy, nuclear energy and thermal energy. However, there can be no one-day fly to decide and change around energy, because it entails a huge amount of preparatory time, preparatory projects, at the end of the day, as far as the one already in the investment, as energy cannot be a single-day fly, nor can it and must not be equipped by our Slovenian army as a single-day fly. You can't just stand on top of each other by replacing power. That's not working. They do not do so in kindergarten, except in a congregation, but not in that some would like to afford it in the energy field. I am pleased that this time in the National Assembly, with the exception of one parliamentary group, Really, who has proposed this, in all others, there is a clear and clear position that a project that is set up should be continued. And even with everything going on in the energy field, there is no reason not to move on. It is true that the problem is that you have 24 hours of work at the Directorate of Energy, and you could take a few hours with you, people or the main ones, who are more concerned with how to find a principal position in another, barely established, firm or, say, department. You will not believe that today, I have sent a written question to Minister Raditchev why someone does not get 2 years of energy permission for the installation of wind power plants, an energy permit under a programme that has been built like another programme. He got it in six months, and he didn't get it in two years, because it's only as if he had an energy permit that's the starting point for the preparation of the state site plan at the Ministry of Environment and Space. So, of course, I would advise you to tell your colleagues we're moving away from this point and we're moving on. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u163	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor. Next up is Mrs. Silva Blackugelj, if she's not there, then mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. TER 6 is the largest investment in the country, whether by real estate, paid, or by how much it will cost. This means that even if we stop investing immediately, it is the largest investment in the country. If we stop, it'll be the biggest investment in the country. I think that all those who propose anything else should also take action from this point of view – what happens if some things happen. And I hope that those of you who signed the request for a referendum are aware of the consequences of what the biggest inherited investment in the country is. Given who the signatories are, and I can see that half of the signatories are members of a parliamentary coalition group, I actually think that this coalition parliamentary group is acting as a group of unrelated Members. It's absolutely no different, no concept, no direction, no responsibility, but everyone's making the same decision as he thinks it's best for him in this country. No broader view, no responsibilities to the proposals coming to the National Assembly, which they sign and so on. And that's what I need to find out is that it's one big responsibility. This is even more so because the Minister comes from this parliamentary group. The Ministry of the Economy's department, which is kind of overly over-investment, belongs to the party Zares. And all that has to do with such an important investment in the country would be good for this parliamentary group to first resolve, if there are dilemmas, in forums in the authorities of the party where it is necessary to then develop a vision, a view to how it is managed, how it works with large investments and how it is then managed further with the country. I'm afraid none of this has happened. And that, in my opinion, is very irresponsible. Some of you were talking about studies that suggest something. In fact, it would be responsible for the signatories to the request for a referendum and for those who are actively defending this proposal in the coalition, or for defending it so that it would not result in any request to the Committee on the Economy in the National Assembly and require all these studies to become public, as you require, for example, in cases where they speak of weapons. Why don't you do so in this case, fellow Members of the coalition's parliamentary groups?Oh, my God! Why are you running projects in the middle of nowhere? Here, one of the colleagues mentioned earlier that this is not the only case in this mandate and at this point in time, which you are doing in the same way. It's also about Patria, the termination of the contract, the lawsuit or whatever, it's in exactly the same phase. Halfway, the procedure for determining whether the contract is valid or not shall be initiated. Not at the beginning of the mandate, when the matter has not been initiated at all and when nothing has been invested yet, but now that the matter has come to about half. Why in this coalition you are so confused about some of the big projects and guidelines that have been adopted. Now, just before the end of your term, which has nothing to boast about, you're going somewhere halfway through these key things. While you are probably aware that, in addition to the fact that some EUR 100 million has already been invested in this project, I believe that around EUR 200, 220 million has been granted a loan of more than EUR 300 million. It is said that 50% of this investment is covered by cash resources in one way or another. And now that all of this is covered up, there are some great, terrible dilemmas and concerns in the coalition that must be done. Both projects, if they are changed the way you did, will have disastrous consequences for this country. And only those who are not in this country will serve these consequences. It is said that Alstom will serve at TES, Patria will serve on the benches, or perhaps another failed military equipment provider. And there's probably an integral part of that, too. I think it is clear from these two cases that the approach of the coalition and the government in this area is extremely poor, unconstant, irresponsible. Therefore, no results are expected in this country either. They're gone and they're not expected, because all the things you do, they end up halfway there, just like they do in this case. I think we should do a lot of things to make things better. The way you are now doing these development projects, the key projects, you can't do that. Project Lower Sava, halfway. One power plant, a hydro power plant, another in preparation somewhere, but the promise of anything happening there is not, not at all. A warehouse of low and medium radioactive waste, halfway through. Even more, all that is being gathered is now under great pressure from these same coalitions to ensure that the funds collected are wasted for purely other purposes, such as the purpose of the fund for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and for the construction of a warehouse of low and medium-sized radioactive waste. Everything's halfway there. Also some other investments, if you look at traffic and the rest, halfway through. Markovec, there's a third variant going on there in Primorska. And some other major projects are very similar. These are the consequences of the decisions taken under this mandate. Some very forced, some very privileged, some I don't know in any way, but these are the consequences that are happening and will be paid. They will be paid by those who inherit this bad condition and will have to fight under very difficult conditions to move something in this area. I'm sorry that in this area, somehow, neither the coalition nor the government gathers to do anything, but it only speculates all the time. Just looking at where someone will get something in a privileged way, where something will go, where there will be a circuit, where someone will protect and cover themselves, do not talk and decide in a proper and correct way how to finish the investments, how to set these things up, seduce, complete and use them, as originally envisaged. Once again, in fact, it's a shame that all the folders, all the projects you carry on your bags, no one wants to show you anything. The coalition also does not want to see what it can show, but you are dealing with all other matters and the bad situation in the country is covered by some projects that we can call just some drugs, such as the incompatibilities of functions, such as permanent business with the congregation of Ankaran and so on. These are some types of narcotics that are supposed to divert people's attention from these issues that you've caused in this mandate. I think it is time for the coalition policy to be sobered up and if it is still capable, but I believe it is not, because the president of the second largest coalition party also says that nothing can be done in this mandate anymore and that this government is not capable of leading matters in the right direction. You don't have to deepen those big wounds and leave them to those who come after you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u165	Mrs. Nigga. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor. Get Mr. Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I do not agree with the referendum at this stage, but I appreciate the reflection of my fellow Members, who have opened up certain topics with this debate and the dilemmas to clarify themselves. But, of course, now that we have the building permit, once the works have started, the financial obligations have been assumed, it is certainly too late to talk about this. I have to say that on many round tables, I have read the media and serious, including the professional analyses and the articles, and if the decision is necessary even before the time when a person is not the only experts or economists, it would be difficult to make a decision. The simple fact is that we need energy in Slovenia. In the light of the events that are happening today in the world with one type of energy, it is certain that the energy generated in this way is, for this country, if it is a bad third source, still important, given what is already happening and will still be happening at the price of electricity. There is certainly some way to think about it and think about it, so now that I am taking the thermoelectric power plant in Velenj as a fact, it is important to be concerned that the matter will be placed in space and will work in accordance with the world's most modern standards, and, on the other hand, I think it is wise, because energy is cheaply measured that, like the whole world, we consume those energies that we have at home, that the quantities are not so small, it will certainly be better and cheaper than if we import oil and its derivatives from Arab and other countries. For this reason, any simple farmer would first spend and take advantage of what lies in his home yard, of course in accordance with the most modern standards and protection and protection of the environment. It is a pity that, in the past, there has not been or has been insufficiently worked out a variant of what brings the modernisation of blocks four and five, although we have received some professional answers there, that this matter is not worth it and that is crucial, it is time for us in Parliament to take on the role that citizens and citizens have assigned to us in the elections, without constantly asking them in their opinion, but in accordance with our own conviction on the basis of the arguments that we think it is right. As far as I'm concerned, this moment, I don't think there's a way back, so the referendum is out of place. But all warnings and meditation are in place and why we need to be careful about this construction. I must say that we do not agree with the opposition many times, but at this point it is certain that we expect a clear and firm position of the authorities in the ministries, in the government, and above all that the light of the world will finally see the documents that are in the bags and would receive after more than a year and a half of the promise on the table of a national energy programme with a strategy. At that time, of course, our decisions would be easier. At this point, I do not support the referendum on the basis of the facts and arguments I have, but I would like this energy facility to be built in the same way as we need to draw on one side of the stock we have and are limited, on the other hand, to provide jobs on the assumption that it is a green or red thread of this story of concern and protection for the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Ziherl has the floor to prepare Luka Juri or Mr Mencinger.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello to the Secretary of State! I hope we'll see each other again, because you just get a good talker, and they're already threatening to leave. Today's debate would start with some kind of luck with the government's exchange and blackmailing that the national energy programme has not yet been adopted. In fact, the national energy programme is not accepted, although this is due to laziness and inefficiency, many conflicts of interest, but in the light of the Japanese earthquake, when the nuclear industry suddenly became unpopular, this shows the energy image of Slovenia in a completely different light. I believe that the Japanese earthquake and the effects on nuclear weapons pose a new challenge if we want to continue dealing with nuclear energy, to find technological solutions, because there was nothing wrong with Japanese nuclear weapons, and it was wrong that the country that invented the tsunami could not protect itself from the tsunami. Tsunami caused the power supply to fall out, and the nuke went its own way, and now we're reading that the center of the reactor is melting. The national energy programme should focus on self-sustainment. Humanity will define the performance of countries, societies with the following issues: self-sustainment or the best percentage of self-sustainment, energy and healthy drinking water. And we must follow this definition in the national energy programme. With regard to the inquiry referendum, I have a very reserved opinion, because regardless of the result, costs, motivation of strong campaign teams and so on, the result is non-binding, so the referendum can say A, the government will do B. About the technical conditions themselves, the consequences were already a lot of talk in the newspaper, but I would like to point out that there are alternatives that are neglected, there are energy programmes that are neglected. Power plants on the lower Savi, as far as I can tell, are still dropping water over turbines because there is no line to drive [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Mencinger has the floor to prepare Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not support the referendum on the construction of TES 6. I agree with those who have stated that the project is practical in implementation, that there are financial obligations, that contracts are signed and that equipment is also in construction. If we decided to stop this project now, it would be a disaster. I agree with the colleague who spoke before me, that we should give more attention to certain national objectives or to the interests where energy independence must absolutely be included. Slovenia, as such, must be sufficiently independent in this area, and this is essentially given by two facilities, the Šostanj thermal power plant and the Krška nuclear power plant. The renewables that we hear about over and over again are actually an interesting story, but here we have to admit that this, as a colleague said earlier, is practically 2% of the production in the German field, so we know what kind of things we are talking about. Let me just say for comparison, the great energy user Acroni as a metallurgical plant has an electric furnace close to a hundred megawatts, so we know what dimensions we're talking about. Therefore, these large buildings really need to be maintained, and they need to be moved on. In addition, we all forget the chain of Sava hydropower plants together. I am convinced that this is a great opportunity for Slovenia, both in the field of investment and through the activation of the construction industry and, what is very important, Slovenia is also able to build hardware and electrical equipment. This would actually affect this area and employ a large number of people. However, if we say that some Sava power plants have virtually also sources of funding, I think that these things should not be considered and we should actually approach these things to come to fruition. Above all, I am talking about this upper, middle and lower part of Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Get Mr. Crossman ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I will not support the request for a TES 6 referendum because I think, as my fellow Members and colleagues have pointed out, that the time for the call for an consultative referendum has been delayed. What I would like to say about this subject is that I think it is essential for the state of Slovenia to have an energy strategy, because it seems to me that we are living in times in which, let us say, some of us are expecting, especially NGOs, that we, as informed citizens and citizens, will be doing energy savings while we have large economic operators as major energy consumers. As I am in the National Assembly, the energy-related stories are somehow being judged very strangely. Let me only remind you of the headquarters of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, which marked the beginning of my parliamentary career, and then we could talk about all other events. I understand that civil initiatives are advertised at every opportunity, even when the issue of renewable energy sources or other energy facilities is possible. I'm thinking about the current power plant Kozjak, and I have the volvato rib in my mind. I'm also very critical of biogas plants and everything that's been going on with them lately. So I have a feeling that we are acting in harmony with that proverb: What he was grabbing with his hands, he was rolling his feet on energy. I do not consider myself dedicated to all the secrets of strategic energy decisions. But as much as I follow these things, it seems to me that the main problem is not my little knowledge of things, but the main problem is the absence of an energy strategy in Slovenia. It would also be easier for us at the crossroads of all these different interests that arise if we had a clear perspective. Especially because there is almost no energy source or energy facility that people do not find problematic. either that it is a nuclear power plant or that it is a thermal power plant, or that hydro power plants are not always accompanied without any doubt. What we need is serious thought and sober decision. Stop a project that has already been so far and which has already taken so many financial consequences behind me, but at this point I do not think it is appropriate to make a decision, so I object to the referendum and, last but not least, to stop the TES 6 construction project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Crossman has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think that almost all of us already have similar discussions, and those we are at the end of these discussions would say that we no longer have anything essential to say about this subject. I would just like to say that the support for the continuation of the construction of TES is logical and meaningful. The support of the referendum and, if possible, the suspension of the construction of this so important thermal power plant for Slovenia, I think, as well as the conviction of the vast majority of people sitting here today in the National Assembly, would be missed. It's like we're gonna make a house, make it phase three, and then we're gonna call a referendum in the village, whether we're making this house or not, we're done. How much research would we do to find out that he has a bad foundation? And any research would show that the foundations are good, but let's do another research, because maybe some hole will show up somewhere, but we'll figure out that maybe because of this hole we wouldn't build or continue construction, because it's dangerous to fall into a hole when we sleep or walk around the house. This hole wasn't found, the foundation is healthy, I don't know why someone wants to make it for the sick and the bad. I hope it's not the calculations back then, as they used to be, less water, the more expensive it is, the more it's earned. I hope that there is also no such extreme calculation that, given that we are running out of electricity, we will encourage it and we will go into some new speculation, where we may also have some major problems again. Look, they recently stopped the construction of windmills for the production of electricity on Volo's ribs. Similarly, the construction of similar windmills here in Primorska stopped. She stopped because she was building on the village community, they found all the people, all the owners, two of them remained unknown. And since the two remained unknown, they took away their building permit, and an investor from Austria took away all his tools and all his workers, so that's where this investment fell into the water. It's best to live by the candles and take a step back 200 years. I don't understand why we have to act like this when most people support it. We have enough coal and it is calculated in the long run, by when and what quality of this coal is, so in the immediate vicinity, where the mine will continue to work, where we will have employees and where two steps from there we will produce electricity and thus solve a very big problem. Are we going to the referendum now, and we're going to tear this whole thing down, shut it down, create another ghetto for the unemployed in the Valley of Shale? Do you have any idea what kind of problems this can cause for those who advocate it? I don't think so. If we did, we wouldn't be dealing with this for that long. And when you read any newspaper, how these documents for TES are born, what's going on. That's amazing. That's a freak nobody recognizes anymore. There is an urgent need to make one incision and start working seriously. If not, I advise you, clear up the matter of which ministry and put such people who will do what needs to be done in this country, not create another problem and a referendum. And then they will tell us that we are doing one referendum every year, because we do not know how to deal, not only in the National Assembly, but also in our own ministries run by our government, we are not able to agree. We have drawn the story so far that we are today talking in the National Assembly that we are not going to the referendum. I didn't count debaters, but if we count, I don't know if anyone's left against it. Here we agree with SDS a hundred percent. This has never happened in history, nor will it. But this is where we met on one very big project. That's a bit of a joke, really. At the end of the day, smart people think smartly and also act smartly, so of course I will not support this conclusion, of course I will not support them to go to the referendum. Never for any reason would I support TES to stop and thus stop our own development and everything that has been building and preparing for years and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u175	Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u176	The time for discussion on energy and on the national energy programme and visions is probably right mainly due to the fact or by the accident of nature, which has caused dilemmas also with regard to the most widespread method of power generation through nuclear power plants. On the other hand, it would probably be best to call a referendum immediately to stop the discussions in Slovenia and to start building the power plant or continue with all the acceleration, as it would probably be easier to break all these debates and all these discussions. The fact is that when you take this proposal into your hands, it seems to be quite handwritten because it does not really know whether it relates to TEŠ 6 or what Slovenia will be like in terms of pollution, about the state of the environment over so many years and so many years, or whether it relates to the sources from which we will produce electricity and how we will supply electricity after these years. I'm sure there were a lot of research and thorough reflections in the previous phase, prior to the decision to block 6. Experts, here I must say that I am taking in defence of one another and others, those who advocate, and there are few, the construction of TER 6 than those who oppose it or have doubts because they think that some other resources would be better. But it is certainly a question of what people would actually ask about this referendum and what they would put on citizens and citizens to decide. What kind of technology will we choose, whether it will contribute to a better environment or provide? What is the key, what do we want to learn from the citizens? I am sure that we have nothing to learn, which we do not already know today, so it would be irresponsible that what we ourselves cannot get from a variety of sources of information, what this new energy capacity in the Shaleska Valley means to try to get at a referendum from people. We have poor experience with energy referendums. There was an adventure in the past when a political option had a red color that went into their noses and was glowing. And since the so-called red districts were thorns in the fifth political option, a referendum, which also opened many questions, closed none, eventually did much damage. That's what I hope to say. We had almost a referendum on the closure of the Krka nuclear power plant before entering the European Union. You know that the Austrians and some others demanded that we shut it down. At that time, it is not even ten years ago when nuclear energy was so blasphemous and many producers, from Westinhouse, Siemens and others found themselves in a serious crisis, whether they could survive the production of nuclear power plants or build their own development on this product. The fact is, the situation changed later. I'm one of those people who doesn't have fear all the time, even though it looks like there's always a latent or potential fear of nuclear disaster, of radiation, of what. But in the last period it has become something that is normal again, and many have talked about this being the only way out for the proper energy supply of individual countries, individual manufacturing industries, households and so on. I'm not sure tomorrow's gonna be any different story. We say let's build a low-carbon society. Okay. Let's go get some electric cars. Okay. But we'll charge them from the power plant. So at least that much or more capacity will be needed. Where to get, how to get, how to replace? I do not hope to tolerate these issues, and I do not want to pass them on to citizens and citizens, but we need to unify or harmonise them within, say, political structures. And more. The responsibility for a matter that is not limited to one term of office should be given to the government, to the mandate of a minister, to a secretary of state who has fallen in and has almost come out of this situation called responsibility. I believe that everyone who is responsible when faced with such great challenges is thinking about all possible consequences. I am, of course, far from being a daredevil, even if I am a Member of several mandates, to say that something that is development, which is potential through several mandates, is now not sure whether Minister Vizjak and the previous government have actually begun to think and sign the first contracts. I think they're studies, projects and so on, an older date. Since they've been digging coal there, where energy is produced there, they're probably studying how they're going to lead the whole development and where it's going to end if it ever does. However, that the Shale Valley has improved considerably, as far as environmental values are concerned, I remember November 11, 1987, when the first serious ecological demonstrations, protests, and protests in Velenje gave me a letter that I had to take to the CK Presidency because I was a young man by accident. But of course, it was coming most of the bad, believe it or not, over the hill of the Mishik Valley. And along with the gas from the Shale Valley, it was a disaster. At that time, we listened on the radio every morning to the concentration in Trbovje, the Seizures of Šostanje, some of whom knew it only by other sources, not by doing so. What I mean is that all this development has also brought about some progress, change and improvement of the environment. I believe mainly the part that says that the supply will be maintained or increased, that the environment will improve in this same supply and that this will contribute to the appropriate energy stability of supply in Slovenia, and that we will also be self-sufficient and not only dependent on it. For me, the question of a referendum as an institution that we really need to use in exceptional cases is not an appropriate form of voter and electorate decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you. There's a government representative on the list. Mr. Wheat. You want a word? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you so much for the opportunity I have. Far from feeling responsible for this debate. As has been said, the matter has a long beard and I think it is absolutely right that the Minister has raised this issue. Of course, she shuddered at matters that are ongoing, and I think that today's debate in Parliament has shown a great degree of responsibility for both Members and the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we have not received any strategic issues in recent times, such as pension legislation or anything like that. But that's my comment. I don't have a special mandate for him. I would like to say, however, that, as I said at the outset, the Government did not define itself until the referendum, nor did it define itself to the question: a referendum yes or no. This does not mean that the Government does not have a responsible attitude towards energy and that it does not force itself in our ministry with exceptional speed and depth, including all studies, through the preparation of a national energy programme and also by amending legislation. In April, and I can say for sure, there will be an open public hearing on this document, which will last for a month, and then it will collapse and go into a government and parliamentary procedure. I think today's debate has also been an introduction, though informal, to this public hearing and an incentive to all those who will look at this document and participate in this consideration. I would like to say something about the code of confidentiality that has been mentioned several times in relation to these documents today. The label wasn't placed in confidence by the minister, but this document came to our house. And if this tag is on the document, we can't remove it. For 14 days now, however, we have been working for those who have given us the document to withdraw it. So much for explaining how sometimes some kind of procedure can be repugnant. And if the Members request it, it will probably be easier. I would just like to say this: there have been a lot of discussions in the government recently on Europe's energy future, in relation to Europe 2020 documents and also energy separats. There are a number of debates – including your committees, the EU Committee on Affairs and the rest – on this subject. The documents that are in preparation and will actually be released next month include some of these new views that are emerging, unfortunately, due to the situation in Japan over the last three weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you. And Mr. Slapnik as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. On conclusion, I would say that we are pleased with today's debate. We are also pleased that we have learned, both on the Committee on the Economy and today, that within about a month of the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the government will respond by the Ministry of Economy. From all relevant studies, I believe that first the levels of confidentiality will be withdrawn, then they will be presented in the National Assembly, and thus the National Assembly and the Slovenian public will have an insight into the real foundations of the investment of the project TEŠ 6. I would also like to add that I am aware that the Ministry of the Economy has received legal opinions at this time pointing out the commitment after the public procurement, including by these companies, and that it has addressed or intended to address serious calls both to the AUKN and to the HSE to stop the current procurement practice in real time without public procurement. I would point out that the proposals' efforts are not to stop the project headlong but to help put on a more realistic, more economical basis the possibility of proving or realizing the nullity of the contract than one of the options in the negotiations with Alstom. The establishment of a contract and the signing of a contract under European law, and not under Swiss law, is one of those that would have cheapened that investment. Finally, I would say that if there have been statements from many today that, in your opinion, our proposal is a game for you, let me say that for us the applicants were a very serious thing, drama, ladies and gentlemen, so that future generations will not say that we were comedians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Everyone has five minutes. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. When we predicted the time for this debate, I somehow did not assess the need or the point of being involved in this debate. In today's debate, however, I have listened to so much nonsense and so many arguments that it has now encouraged me to say something myself. We can no doubt all find that this request was indeed a game by the party; we can also say comedy, as the representative himself mentioned earlier, for the public. Without any concrete arguments, but above all without concrete solutions. I am firmly convinced that a much more meaningful and useful time would be spent today's debate if the drafters of this proposal for a consultation referendum could come up with a proposal or a material to discuss the national energy development programme in Slovenia, where they could discuss, in particular, a more constructive and probably more useful future of Slovenia. However, to discuss or even consider this at this point, the construction of the 6 Yes or No Thermoelectric Power Plant is more than irrelevant. To say that we can make a treaty null and void. Dear colleagues from Zares, you'd always do nothing if you didn't like it. It's not about me. When things don't work out for you, when you probably get those projected money out of your hands, you want to reject this project now, too, so that you can put your people right in positions where you can then also have an impact on a number of millions or a billion more. Here is the key reason that you tried to achieve this referendum in this way. Most people here are more than convincing that they do not want this referendum, that it is unnecessary, pointless and will also be rejected from this title. However, as I have already said, there has been a very large conflict here, particularly between the two coalition parties, which shows that there is a great deal of opposition to many projects, particularly because of the personal interests of individual political parties. Here, in fact, thank God, you have fought in front of the public, you have, I can say, quite frankly, so it was a pleasure to listen to the public as we have been, and it also reveals the real background. Further, this could also be the initiative of the Government, the Ministry of Economy, not least the coalition to ask representatives of the government, the Ministry of Economy, to prepare the material, and we will really have an opportunity here to discuss some energy future for Slovenia. As many dilemmas as there are still, I think it's right that we should also continue to resolve them, because even when we have this thermoelectric power plant, I hope that we will have it, we should be thinking today about how we can do it in 20, 30 or 40 years. Energy is certainly something we will always need. As I have already mentioned, I cannot personally support this proposal for this consultation referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again. I really hope that the label will withdraw confidentially from all documents that will help us to clarify or resolve the doubts that some still have in this project. I have heard before that we do not import electricity into Slovenia, which is of course not a good information. We import about a quarter of electricity into Slovenia, which means we are not self-sufficient with care. If this project is not available, this means that we will reduce self-sustainment by one third. I would like to say again that I believe that the known information of experts – including from the thermal power plant Šostjanje – is that no one will accuse me of searching through confidential archives or the material, that the reconstruction of block four and five is no alternative to block six and that there is no point in thinking about it in the future. But that's what I'm saying, if anyone decides to stop this investment in Block 6, that doesn't mean that blocks 4 and 5 will work as long as Slovenia needs it. No, these two blocks are gonna stop. And much earlier than anticipated, coal production will stop. So far, the state has invested nothing in closing down Velenje's coal mines. If this project collapses, of course, the costs needed to close Velenje coal mines must also be taken into account. And when we put these costs together with those that we have already invested, those that have been wasted for unnecessary studies, we will get the right number. Speaking of energy efficiency, Block 6 is a real alternative. But when we talk about energy efficiency, in addition to electricity, we also need to take into account the benefits of so-called heat supply. And if we're at 43%, there's still some percentage to be added. I already agree that the cheapest electricity is from hydro power plants, so it is also right to build it in the future. This investment will not stop investments in the energy system, but only hydro power plants do not allow sufficient supply of electricity to Slovenia. Therefore, the current regime, when we have so-called third-party electricity production, nuclear, hydroelectric, thermal and renewable resources, is a real distribution that also contributes to the safe supply of electricity. Speaking of alternative sources and HSE, how does the energy policy not run properly, let me say that the data is that 80% of renewable electricity sources in Slovenia are produced within HSE. It is said that only 20% outside of HSE. And once again, Block 6 is a replacement object, it's nothing new, but it replaces existing objects. And once again, the profession, the one dealing with energy and similar fields of expertise, claims that the project is economically, energy and environmentally sound. So he's a good guy. The environmental field reduces environmental impact, improves and raises the quality of life standards in the Shaleska Valley, I have talked energyically about three sources of electricity production and economics, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that European banks would finance a project that is wrong? I doubt it. To talk about foreign investors – foreign investors would be interested, even in Russian they translated this Block 6 and offered it in Russia. If foreign investors were interested in this project, what does this indicate? To invest because they love us in Slovenia? No, no, no. Because they want profit. And if so, why wouldn't this profit have HSE, which is state-owned? That's what I'm asking you in the end. And once again, what we are doing today may be a useful debate to call a referendum and ask people, as the question is asked, but making fun of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u186	In fact, it is not exactly clear what we want to learn from citizens and citizens. If this is about what we are trying to prove that we do not want to hear from the grandchildren of criticism, that we have put up a case and that it is better for citizens and citizens to decide on it, an explanation is possible. And that's right. But I don't want to get caught up in some sort of trap to talk about this responsibility, to stop things that aren't for the referendum, so I don't do it. A friend of mine from the Shale Valley said to me, "if I look at the government, this and the previous, and the Members, you represent yourself on electricity just as much as you know it's shaking." And it's true, at least I can say it to myself, so I can't impose on others to decide when they're not qualified. The fact that there is not a single energy strategy in this country that is yet to come is too simplistic. We can, I would say, have used resources and this balance between nuclear power and thermal power and water energy, unfortunately it's a shame that we're not using the wind because we could, maybe we will, and I'm not sure that solar energy is going to be the solution for Slovenia now. Above all, I am opposed to solar collectors and power plants being installed instead of apples and pears on orchards. It's bad for nature, efficiency is damn bad for exploitation, and so on. But it's my personal belief, it's also clear what kind of roof across the country with traditional architecture breaks with this. But the fact that only empty glass walls are installed, you already have walls in many production plants, for example, that are made of these panels, which also produce electricity, which I think makes sense. But I speak as a citizen, as one who drives and follows things around this country. It really bothers me that this initiative has fallen at a time when, in fact, we have almost a plebiscite rejection of referendums as an institution by citizens and citizens who ask questions over and over again why you rape us so much with these referendums, and on the other hand we do not separate what would truly be the case at the referendum and ask people about it. That is why I think this debate is more important in this respect, in order to open up a debate on what and how to set up the institute of the referendum and what citizens and citizens are really supposed to decide. From this point of view, this seems to me to be a very useful issue, as it will certainly be possible to make an impression and it will be a rather uniform conclusion that the issues of technological adequacy, energy supply, environmentally sound technology and so on are not questions for a referendum. However, I believe that the public will also talk about this in the future when we discuss the energy strategy, which you say will probably be on the tables soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. It was so much said, but some things may not be clear enough that those who are not here would know what we are talking about. When we talk about the cost for TES 6, it is necessary to know that these funds will be returned and paid by those who turn on the light at home and no one else. This cost will be built into the electricity price, which will be due to TES 6 and is already higher today due to TES than it would be from other sources in the country. We need to be aware of this and then the debate can be different. As far as foreign investors are concerned, they will not have any profits, Mr Kontic. They pay interest money and there's no fear that they won't get that money because the state will guarantee these loans and that money will come back. But if there's profit embedded in the contract, then it's something new. Because profit should have the owner, that's what the state says, and with this profit lowers the flow for those who pay the electricity. As regards the social aspect of this investment, which speaks of job retention, I absolutely agree that this is one matter that is right, that we are thinking and that we are not, after all, supporting it. The problem is somewhere else. It's about a thousand and 500 jobs that we're supposed to be saving by spending a billion 200 million. If you remember the Mura case, when it came to 3,000 500 jobs, the question was a few million euros. I don't know why. If we fear for it, we should have about the same viewpoint in this respect. As far as I'm concerned, professional. In the daily newspaper, and even so, a lot of debates by doctors of science were available, and the main word was that TES experts were always interested in building this thing because they had signed the contract two years before they were granted a building permit, and they immediately began to spend this money and it is clear that it is too late with the referendum today or otherwise to stop it. I believe there would be great damage if this thing stopped. The problem is somewhere else — not talking about how such a situation could have occurred, that 300 million had been spent before the building permit arrived or the environmental permit arrived. Regular citizens must first have money, then a building permit, then they can start building, otherwise it's black construction and big problems. And those are the ones we pull by the ears. Probably no one here will be responsible for starting to spend money that was not fully secured because we were still waiting for the approval of some loans and so on. In addition, it will be necessary to guarantee the National Council for Leased Loans, if I am correctly informed, for about 400 million, and come up with this matter in a short time. And that's what bothers me, of course. As far as the environmental aspect is concerned. Of course, TES 6 is supposed to have minor discharges. This does not mean that they will not continue to be more than they should be, given our obligations to reduce redundancies as a whole in our country. On the other hand, we cannot, of course, agree to the situation that profits from cheaper sources, production sources for electricity flow into TES 6 financing and later to pay for discharges, especially when CO2 is to be stored and it will no longer be missed as it is today. I think it is right that this debate has opened. If anything, this debate may be a motive not to act this way in the future, to start building things when the building permit, when the financial structure is known, when it is known who is responsible for what. Especially because we have read from the doctors of science that a similar power plant is being built for a half price lower elsewhere and these experts have not been given the opportunity to confront each other, even less so as to hear from the experts in TES any evidence that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Clearly, it is also in view of today's debate that the government, because of various local and other interests, cannot decide on this matter as much as anyone would like. When someone in the government draws attention to the irregularities that colleague Žnidaršič was talking about, how could it possibly have come so far that we are here now, where we are, it is simply burned, the campaign organizer from the local elections in one of the coalition parties prints "orange tsunamis" and the workers wear them cheerfully, while the opposition grabs it and happily strikes. It is very simple, colleagues, both from the opposition side and from the coalition side, of course, the truth is much more complicated. You do not expect the truth to be so simple with 1.2 billion euros of investment. And if colleague Grill knows anything about my client and the business of this client, which I don't know, then he's probably been studied by events of the last few days to have to tell the anti-corruption commission about. However, this should not be wrong, from the arms business of some members of his party, to conclude that it is the same in my party. I strongly reject that. My friend Kontic said in his last report, two interesting facts. Let's say that HSE is a monopolist in production, 80% of energy in Slovenia it produces. Whether it has one pillar or two, it practically doesn't matter. Of course, it is also not surprising why Slovenian newspapers have been full of paid ads for a month or two, which promote only one truth about this investment. The question is whether European banks would finance this investment if it were disputed. colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the experience of Greece, Iceland, Ireland and others has taught us that European banks, like any other party, will give their money wherever their profits will be. This is where they're gonna get their hopes up, so they gave it up. And that's the whole truth. You probably don't believe that money has any special moral relationship to the environment or anything special. He doesn't have it. Not according to my experience. As far as the question is, is it misleading or not? You all know that during the call for an advisory referendum, the issue may change. If it's misleading now, I don't doubt that it could be changed, so it wouldn't be misleading. However, we could still decide on the same issue. However, I hope that it is clear to us that there is nothing in the current commitments and the coalition agreement on TES 6 that this would be a priority project. If we do not know anything about this in the existing national energy programme, it would probably be good to make a decision on some basis or not to make a decision. Because the times when Miha Marinko and Franz Leskovšek Luka, one for the sutures, one for the cups' power plants, were over. I hope they're through. But if I'm wrong, then I'll wait a little longer. At least I have time to wait. And I will also await the times when such huge investments will be carried out in a transparent manner. And this is what is most essential, so that the reasons for the decision are clear and that the broadcasting of parts will also be clear that they will be regulated by public calls under European law and so on. As far as the opportunities we still have and the damage that could be caused if the coal stocks that are large, we could also hear that and believe that, the rest of us, there is nothing wrong with waiting another decade and that we can use this coal with technologically more efficient solutions in a way that will be environmentally less burdensome for our environment. In my opinion, this TES 6 has taken on an investment if it ends now or if it goes to the end. But I'm even sure she's more obsessed with getting to the end than if she broke up now. However, even if there are arguments that convince me otherwise, there is nothing wrong with asking the widest range of people, those who will finance it at the end. The referendum on this matter is likely to be announced on a second occasion when we talk about guarantees. It is not necessary for a minority of Members to give it, but it is likely that there will be 40,000 voters interested in doing so. It would not be the first ecological project on which a civil initiative would reach so much consensus that it could require the decision-making of all electorates and voters. I've been to the Chestnut power plant once on a high school field trip. I think I was 17 years old. And after that, I have to say, it took me 15 minutes to get this representative to admit that the Termoelectrica Šostanj is the largest contaminant in Slovenia. This fact has not changed since then. And I'll always take 15 minutes or more to point that out. However, I think the public has the right to decide whether or not to have such a polluter or even to finance it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u191	Mr. Crossbow, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Above all, I think it is important here that this project is being adopted by the environment itself. This is what I think is very important for this project to be able to be put into prison, and this is particularly important because there is a tradition in this area. It is said that so many and so many people are involved in this field of energy and technology. This is mainly with this replacement block for smaller releases and more energy. That's what I think is positive. Above all, the EU urges Member States to be energy independent. From the debate I listened to earlier, I also know some information that we are still importing some energy. And if these projects don't go at this pace, then the question is, what are we going to do in a little while, is we are going to import more energy than we are importing today. I don't think that's good. But we all know that hydropower is real, but we can't make up for it all, so we need another alternative. And here today to talk about the injustice of one such project, I think it is very irresponsible. Such questions do not belong to the referendum, I think, but they are questions for the expert. Above all, I think we underestimate our expertise in this field in Slovenia. I think the section of this study has divided up and shown that this project is justified. And here we have to believe that this is because in fact Slovenia needs it. If the profession said that the studies show that this project is justified, then there is no doubt about it. Above all, I hope not to repeat here the error we have made in the field of forestry. Slovenia has a lot of raw materials – wood and, on the other hand, wood industry belongs to us. The same is true here with Block 6 – it is a raw material and in the middle of the project we would wonder whether we are moving the project forward or not. I don't think there's any debate here, and that's true, this thing is irresponsible, so I don't support the proposal for an advisory referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to call for a consultation referendum on the construction of Block 6 Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj TEŠ 6 we will decide today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u194	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28.3.2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 5, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant to Article 5. Mr Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Although we are co-signers and co-proposers of the law as a whole. In our view, the law in the regulation that we are amending is appropriate, in short, to facilitate life and work in local communities where this law has so far been truly lifeless. I think we agree in this that the president of firefighters can also get a case, can apply, say, to invitations or can get municipal funds and so on. However, the amendment proposed for Articles 4 and 5 is now extremely up to date. In the European Parliament, Slovenia had a case that was probably not wanted for anyone. It has happened to us, Mr Thaler, and at the same time we have a number of other Members in the European Parliament and a number of other officials in the institutions of the European Union. The amendment refers to them, it is substantively linked, it is to Articles 4 and 5. With this amendment, we want to achieve that the European Union's officials will be as relevant as the Slovenian officials, i.e. Members, committed to all anti-corruption legislation and to all reporting to the anti-corruption commission. I think that this is useful, and I believe that this is needed in particular in the light of current events. It is true that some institutions have volunteered to include European judges from Slovenia. This may be controversial, but it is possible to support these amendments, or we need to support these amendments, and in our third reading, we are trying to design this amendment in a way that is correct and acceptable. Our goal is certainly, and this is the main and final objective of aligning officials in the European Union institutions with officials in Slovenia, so that these individuals will be bound by the same definition, the same procedure and the same reporting to the anti-corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This made the amendment irrelevant to Article 5. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much again. It may seem that the coalition has rejected what we have proposed — and has officially refused — and we will still support the marriage. We support the law, but we are aware that the Government has already proposed amendments to this law and that this law is reopened and is back on the agenda of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. It should also be said that this Article is open. However, since this article, which we have just voted on, is open, we expect, we will, in fact, insist on it, absolutely insist on it, and also bind our voice to the law that is coming to make all the officials of the European Union equal to ours. This time our vote for this marriage, and already in advance, I will say, desire, not just desire, I hope that commitment, some hands already see that we will sort this area out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group shall be given by Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that, on behalf of the Group of Members, because we are also one of the proponents or proponents, there are a total of fifty Members and Members of Parliament, we are pleased that a great deal of agreement has been reached that some of the irregularities or major shortcomings of the law that we passed last year are thus eliminated and that we will thus allow for normal action in the field of local communities or in many Slovenian municipalities. Given that we have already argued enough arguments for clarification, of course, it is logical that we will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The Zalokar Orazem Flower does indeed have an explanation on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although we voted against the amendment to Article 4, and also against the amendment to Article 5, because, as the amendment has been written, and this has been acknowledged by the proposer, they are too wide and cover a wide spectrum – not only of officials, but also of other officials and judicial officials. In this sense, such an amendment cannot be adopted. In fact, we have a good and positive fact, because we want things to be settled for all the officials in whose appointment or consent Parliament or Government are involved. The law on integrity, prepared by the Anti-Corruption Commission, has already been introduced, the article is open and our parliamentary group will cooperate in preparing an amended amendment, which will only cover the part of the officials for whom it is reasonable and also lawful to report matters and are equivalent to Slovenian officials. I think that this can already be done at the next meeting in the procedure and we will also note that the correct content will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u202	If I understand correctly, the parliamentary group will support the law, won't it? Does anyone else want to discuss or explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 4. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on strategic directions for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food by 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Chapter 5.2.5 of Chapter 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a consultative referendum on the construction of the Blok 6 Termoelectrica Šostanj (TEŠ 6). We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultative referendum on the construction of Block 6 of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj is being signed [[TEM 6]] . We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 70. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act is suitable for further consideration. Rudolf Petan has an explanation on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In our parliamentary group, we will not support this proposal for a simple reason, because it is a lobbyist-clientist law that is not in fact necessary. It is true that we are pleading for harmonisation in European Union legislation, which is not true, because no European Union legislation requires an increase in real estate commissions. And this is the basic purpose of this bill. Slovenia currently has problems in the real estate market. This balloon is overblown, and since it shows that property prices could eventually be lowered and buyers could be cheaper to get real estate, such as a young family to their homes, prices could be lowered. This law, however, allows for the collection of cream, not by the purchasers of apartments, but by real estate brokers. We therefore find it very irresponsible to send such a proposal to Parliament, which shows that the tradition of the past two years continues because the government cares only for a certain clientele, only for certain reasons and increases their fees, prices of services and so on. We therefore believe that such a proposal is not appropriate, not at the moment at all, because it does not solve the problems, but may even complicate them. At a time when there is also a shortage of money on the market, the potential buyers of apartments would be deprived of what the market would offer them. That is why we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Zares Group shall be given by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Indeed, the Group of Members also opposes the Article which lays down restrictions on real estate commissions. But we're going to put in a further amendment to fix this. We will once again vote in favour of the continuation of the procedure, but we are already predicting an amendment that will substantively remedy this situation. And we are counting on the support of those Members who oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 44, for 31. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act is suitable for further consideration. Mr Likar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. The Agricultural Lands Act is certainly an important law and provides for a series of measures to preserve agricultural land. However, in the course of the debate, it was concluded that the law had a type of flaw, so that we expect the Government to take these proposals into account. We will not oppose the law in the Group of Members, but our support will continue to depend on our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Franz Bogovic has an explanation on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u209	Good-bye! Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! In the Slovenian People's Party we will support the law in the first reading. We estimate that it was also the right decision to hold this general debate, in which we had enough time to go through the law long and hard. I agree with this, and also in the debate, we have said that in some segments there is a certain need for further reflection and perhaps something to be done, especially in the part where we are talking about changing the destination of agricultural land, which we support in principle. However, we believe that it is primarily for agriculture, and probably where it will change for the needs of education, culture or the like, to consider this segment. On the other hand, we firmly believe that this basic intention of law, which protects agricultural land on the one hand, also creates resources through this financial instrument for active land policy, the right path in Slovenian agriculture, and that the law, as I have already said, must be adopted in a similar form with these corrections below. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, I announce my support for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on prevention of work and employment in the light of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 25. 3. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u211	Dear Mr. President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support this amendment that we have drafted. The reasons are clear. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will by no means agree that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as an exception to black work. So far, the definition of neighbourhood aid has been inadequate. The proposal of this law has only made this worse, so we propose that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as black work. We also estimate that there are many reasons for this. In this situation, when we have an extremely difficult economic, financial and social situation in this country, this neighbourhood assistance is extremely important. Many people in the country, especially on the periphery, have extremely great problems of surviving. Here people live on 400, 500, 600 euros in income, which in no way enables them to survive. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that neighbouring aid in this situation is of special and exceptional importance, so we have also proposed an amendment in this context.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 40. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, DeSUS and LDS to Article 12. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the national working body or meeting of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u213	Dear Mr. President! Since the coalition has not taken into account practically any amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we must say that we are appalled at such a coalition's attitude towards citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There has been a great deal of debate recently on this issue of neighbourly assistance, and it is amazing that the coalition Members or most coalition Members have not understood the key fact, as critical a situation as it is in the economic, social and financial sphere of Slovenia at this time, and have not gathered enough courage to support an amendment which, at this point in time, is extremely important for the majority of people living in this country. And these are the groups we've already talked about a lot, and at least I've said a lot. These are pensioners who barely survive, then employees who after 6 months or 7 or 10 don't get personal income, then we have 130 thousand unemployed and these people are already very hard to survive. Then we do not allow them to approach and help their neighbors when they find it extremely difficult. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided that in such a situation of law as the coalition or the Government has prepared and advocated by the coalition, we cannot support it, because it has exceeded all the limits of good taste of all those who should have at least a little heart and at least a little of that social justice and at least a little of what is absolutely necessary at this point in time in order for those who are the most difficult in this country, and these small people, to help make at least their lives a little easier than after the adoption of this law. Therefore, once again, we cannot support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u214	Mr Pojbič, first of all, I would like to remind you once again that the institution of explanations of vote is intended to explain its vote. No more qualifications and voting disputes; or [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Pojbič, for this there was a time in the debate, which was long and extensive, not anymore in the explanation of vote. [[...]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Institute of Voice Explanation is not intended for this purpose and I ask you to remember this once. Procedurally. Now you'll make up your mind. Mr. Tanko or Mr. Pojbich or both? Mr. Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleagues! I know that a lot of people are laughing at this moment, and I hope that even after you've implemented this law, a lot of people will find it funny. You'll look at the pictures when you have to. The President-in-Office, as regards the explanations of vote, was quite correct in this explanation by our Member, Comrade Pojbič. There was no controversy. He said where the reasons for the reasons are, he could repeat this to you if you wanted, and it is unfair that you should intervene in this way and comment on the debates and explanations of fellow Members of Parliament when they say something that is not right for the coalition Members and not for the President. He said everything that follows this law because it is a bad law because it is a law that is directed exclusively against the countryside, like most other laws that you adopt and therefore I propose that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u216	It's going to be time for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u217	Therefore, I propose that you leave those who have explanations of vote to say what they think and intervene in the debates and comment on the debates when this is really necessary when the debates are offensive, and there are many where your fellow Members laugh and do not tolerate any debate and so on. [[...]] In these cases, you have the right to intervene. However, in the correct case of explanations of vote, you are probably aware that you are exceeding your powers, even though you have a mandate to interpret the Rules of Procedure whenever the meeting is taking place, however you wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much. First, Mr Tanko, I myself will decide on the basis of my assessment when I will intervene in any interpretation or debate by a Member or a Member. That's the first thing. The second point is that in this case it was mainly about qualifying the votes of other groups but not about citing the vote. That's why, of course, I intervened. Procedurally, Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u219	Dear Mr. President! I'll be very brief. I ask you very much that, in the future, when we explain our voice as a parliamentary group, why we do not agree with the solutions in this law that we have the right to explain them properly. Please, if we say this in a way that does not please you and does not suit you not to interrupt us, because I find this very irresponsible. It is extremely inhuman to try to prevent the opposition from saying what it wants to say about the law and the articles in this law that it disagrees with. I personally appreciate that it is still important for all Members and Members of Parliament to have the right to express their opinion on whether to agree or not on a particular proposal for a law. And, Mr President, at least what I would expect of you is that you provide us with this opportunity, because I am sure that, as President of the National Assembly, we should provide all Members and Members with the opportunity to say what they think of a proposal. Above all, when they speak on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u220	Mr Pojbič, at first you may have noticed that I did not interrupt you at all and that I left you, to tell you, to explain your voice to the end. And secondly, that I did not interrupt or interrupt you by any chance to explain why you intend to vote and the parliamentary group as you intend to vote. However, I have warned you that you do not have an explanation of the parliamentary vote and that there is no institution for the controversy or disqualification of others who will vote differently. Just that and nothing else. We're moving on. An explanation of the voice? Procedural? Another group wants to explain its voice? The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u221	The time in which we adopt this law marks the total economic failure of the current government and the ruling coalition, as seen in all macroeconomic indicators. In most neighbouring countries in the developing world, economic growth has been on the rise for a long time. Some countries achieve 10 % and more economic growth; in Slovenia we stagnate according to macroeconomic indicators, according to some, such as the unemployment issue, the situation is still getting worse. And in these circumstances, when people deal with personal hardships, with poverty, which is largely covered by the inefficiencies of the current ruling coalition and government, there is a law that will provide inter-neighbourly assistance to some who literally make life worth living, prohibit and severely sanction. I understand that those who just take a plane to shopping in Milan and then decide all the important things don't understand those who fight for their own survival, the survival of their families and their children. I will vote against this misunderstanding today, and of course against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u222	I can see that the interest in explanation of vote is in my own name, so I'm opening the application. Franco Juri has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you. I will vote in favour of this law because, despite the fact that we did not vote on the amendment to Article 12, it is necessary to say correctly that this law does not abolish neighbouring aid. This is an inaccuracies or an untruth. It defines and restricts certain forms in Article 12 and prevents the craftsman from offering neighbourly assistance in the case where it operates. But the neighbor's help stays. Personally, I would rather see her released, so I also supported the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Nevertheless, I think that the law is entirely good because it actually establishes greater control and prevents work on the black, which we know is one of the sources of financial non-discipline in the country and also financial losses. So it is not true that this law interferes with neighbourhood aid, but only in the sense that it explains and partially restricts it, it is true, and I was against it myself. But this law is completely beneficial. It is useful for citizens who are useful for society and for the country. So I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u225	In view of the fact that an amendment has not been adopted to partially correct this law and which is now in some way taxing neighbouring aid, this law cannot be supported or voted against. Pahor's government takes over in the small, not the big, poor, not the rich. Yesterday, we heard the Prime Minister say that, on the basis of so-called tax rolls, missing traders, it is out of the EUR 94 million estimate of the Tax Administration. This is a failure to sell the richest cars, where the sums of 50, 100 and 150 thousand euros are up. There the Pahor government should hunt taxes and ensure that taxes are consistently and fully collected. Yesterday, too, the Prime Minister could not ensure that there are no such ones in his cabinet as were found in these tax rolls. On the other hand, there is no guarantee that there will ever be tens, hundreds of millions of euros that have been transferred from our companies to various accounts in Liechtenstein, Cyprus and elsewhere. Taxes must be covered there, tax burdens must be increased there, and there is room for this country to receive adequate social resources and everything else. As long as tax resources are sought only for the poor, for those who already have the least, and who work together to help themselves survive from month to month, such a law cannot, of course, be supported, despite its good intentions. I regret that this amendment has not been adopted, but it prevents us from adopting other provisions, which are otherwise a step in the right direction. However, I believe that several other laws should be adopted before such a law is passed, which are also significantly more important for this country in a financial sense. That's why I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u227	Dear Mr. President! There is no way I can vote for this law. I can't understand that this coalition insists on criminal policy all the time. The intent of this law is criminal policy. It is amazing that in a situation where people cannot survive from month to month, instead of looking for solutions where we need to look, we are adopting legislation that has a criminal policy for intent. It should be crucial that we create adequate jobs, that we do not have 130 000 unemployed, that those who are employed have an adequate salary, through which they can not only save and pay those costs that are regular, and also that pensioners, when either way most already live on the brink of survival or below the threshold of poverty and cannot pay any new obligations. With this legislation, we are trying to burden these people again with new obligations. This law brings nothing to these people. I am convinced that we should adopt laws to provide people with the opportunity to pay all the obligations that are necessary to ensure that people can survive. But at this point, we have an economic, financial and social situation so that people are not comfortable with it. Then we try to impose penal legislation on their backs, which is unacceptable. That's why I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much. In his own name, Guido Kres has an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I estimate that the government's assessment of the services performed in black work or on the grey economy is excessive in my opinion. I'm saying they can't hold the data. We will, in particular, touch those services provided on farms if you want, in the fields, in the forests, in construction companies, where we can most easily track and track and possibly also punish or collect taxes. But great added value is not done in these jobs, it works for doors, it works in bureaus, projects and similar interventions. That's where the profits are made. And that's where I'm saying there's certainly not enough taxes to be collected. Take a look at iBON, and you'll see these entrepreneurs, the profits they show, in the turnover of EUR 100,000 gross is profits between 5% and 10%, which is not even a small percentage, but that is EUR 5,000 or 10,000. I say that these entrepreneurs would want a better deal, a greater profit, and thus the entry into the capital market for credits and so on. You can't develop with this kind of work, you survive from today to tomorrow, you must be taking care of your family, and these are the small businesses — the mouse companies that are flexible. And I'm afraid we're going to get into this first. I am not going to say that it is wrong that this topic has been given attention and that it was going to this, but at this point we are not yet on the right track to vote in favour. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 33. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on scholarships. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a grant law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 25. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and to persons with disabilities as a parent worker. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Joyful Žerjeva in connection with saving in the state administration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SLS Group shall be mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday I asked the President of the Government about how he was actually saving himself in government or in public administration. Some of the answers have not been given, particularly why we are unable to change consumer logic in public administration, why at the end of the year, at the end of the year, everything left open on that item is probably unnecessary, and how we do not have any control over indirect budgetary consumers. They also receive €2 billion from the state budget for the circus, both of which are different. There are many of these indirect budget consumers and we do not have control over this spending, which is frightening. I believe that this should be introduced, and it would be appropriate, however, to discuss more seriously in the National Assembly how we are saving, even in relation to this, and compared with someone else who is in the same financial and economic crisis, which is also here in Europe, who has significantly cut the costs of public administration. I'd like to talk about it and compare the data. Is the information that appears real or is it really something else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Bogdan Barovic on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the Stability Pact. Bogdan Barovic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I know that the tiredness of colleagues and colleagues is great, but for half a minute, I'd like to ask for your attention. I never, or very rarely, ask or propose a broader debate on the basis of this Article. This time, it's more than justifiable. Not because of ourselves, it is all the more justified because of the Slovenes and Slovenes, who will be able to monitor and know exactly what joining the Euro Pact means. However, we need to know on a basic basis that the State of the Republic of Slovenia will already have to guarantee more than a billion euros from the temporary mechanism, and with the European stabilisation mechanism we will talk about two or more billion euros to talk about the hundreds of millions of euro of credit potential that Slovenia will have to co-form in this Europe, to talk about measures taken by the Government or as regulations or to propose, as a law, that these measures will still have a bearing on the life and work of Slovenia and the Slovenians, on their salaries. We will also clarify the requirements of why pension reform, why labour costs, what a uniform tax rate will be. These are things that will have a profound impact on the life and work of Slovenes and Slovenes. In the short term, it will be very painful and in the long term we would like to hear whether the accession to this pact is really good for Slovenians and Slovenians under the conditions we have received from the members who have joined together. When we decide, at least we will know the truth, we tell people where we are going on this train and where we can actually get off. Decide according to your conscience, but our relationship with the Slovenes and Slovenians should be this moment to say yes, we will talk about this pact, let the Slovenians and Slovenians hear exactly what this pact will require of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 39 to 39. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Zvonko Černač's question on the loss of tax revenues. Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u235	Yesterday, the President of the Government replied to the question of how much of the budget falls off the scales of the so-called missing traders or tax wheels in the last three years, saying that it is 94 million euros. Later, an additional question was raised to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior and it was also explained by the Minister of Finance that, in these cases, this is a so-called solidarity responsibility in paying these taxes. The Prime Minister did not know in his reply whether in this issue, in this case, taxes on vehicles which, after reporting to the media, were obtained through these missing traders by Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, and by the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, former Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Anton Rope, promised a follow-up reply. The opportunity to get this answer is, of course, a debate on the President's response to this question. Why? Because it raises the issue of equality before the law. Solidar responsibility means, and this is the case with ordinary mortals, that when it finds that there has been a tax drop anywhere in this chain, the tax is charged to the final buyer. The one that's last in this chain. That's true of all common mortals. Is this the case with senior government officials? I think that the debate must answer this question whether science or not is involved in these tax evasion procedures. The debate should also answer the question of how investigations should be effective in such cases if subordinates investigate superiors. Would it not make sense to legalise the prevention of conflicts of interest in such cases? The debate, I think it is right to answer the question of how to ensure equality before the law, when those who are above the rule of law are involved in tax evasion procedures, and how the public should believe that investigations will be effective and consistent in such cases. Finally, the debate should answer questions about why this equality before the law is sought by the weakest and not by the most powerful. The debate should also answer the question of what damage is caused in Slovenia and the state budget due to these cases and because of this inequality before the law. The Prime Minister has also pledged the answers to the question whether the high state officials are also involved in these 94 million euros. And the opportunity to fulfil this promise is to discuss its answer to this question in the National Assembly, so in the SDS Group we will support this debate and invite others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 35, for 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milenk Ziherl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economy Darje Radic to Milena Ziherl's question on the quality of goods in Slovenian trade. Milenko Ziherl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I believe that the topic is still very topical and in the short time allowed by the process of the question being sent, it is not possible to deal with it. In the media and in everyday life, people warn us that in many cases only labels are purchased in Slovenian stores, and the goods are not produced in the parent factory, but in some factory they may also be from new members and at first glance they appear to be less quality in longer use. I'm not saying it's not useful, but it's less quality. At the very least, what we would expect from the consumer protection service, from the Ministry, is to adopt a regulation or otherwise arrange for the consumer to be informed where the goods from the original factory are 100 % quality and also 100 % price, where they are from the branch. There are even such anomalies that we have washing powders that will soon be banned by the phosphate directive. The powder from the Czech Republic has up to 10% of phosphate softeners and we will have to get rid of them in the near future, so there will be no more. The washing powder from the original factory is purely after a second recipe, less necessary, at lower temperature washes and has other advantages – both of them have the same price because they have the same label. At the very least, consumers should be informed. I also mentioned an example of good practice when consumers were already informed and agreed to the mannequin. And that was about selling cars. For example, Volkswagen warned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u238	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u239	that a special country model, especially designed vehicles for Slovenia, is perhaps instead of Michelin's tyres and so on, instead of being from Wolfgang in Spain, people agreed because they were aware that it was still in this price to receive the paid price of enough goods. [[...]] And that's the point of the proposal. In cars they were informed and in other products they were not informed and paid the full price as if they were from the central factory itself. Since this is a longer topic, it covers several final-stage resources, I would suggest that a debate be held in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Willi Trofenika, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economy Darje Radic to the question by Mr Trofenika on the question of the question of public tendering for the European Regional Development Fund, ERDF, the Development Centre of the Slovenian Economy. Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his own name, he will explain the voice of Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. The data undisputedly show that the use of European funds, including regional development incentives, does not contribute to reducing the development differences between regions, but increases these differences every year. It is also clear from the State aid report for the period 2007-2009 that the largest share of State aid received during this period was the most developed region, with 733 euros per capita, compared to 87 euros per head in the region with the lowest share of State aid. In addition, an invitation from the Ministry of Economy from last year to co-finance the programme of the Slovenian Development Centres, where the Ministry of the Economy has made an invitation to tender by modifying the tendering conditions just before the end of the tender period by actually deciding on the results of the tender. Thus, the recipients of the funds referred to in that call shall be undertakings whose directors sit or manage the supervisory boards of banks. Since the competent minister has answered the question inconsistently and justified the allocation of funds with the financial success of the recipients of the aid, but has overlooked that there are also financial failures between the recipients, which have their anchors in the banks, but not in accordance with the instructions of the European Commission, which requires the determination of the necessity of state aid from the so-called financial gap accounts, this is the difference between the investor’s own financial assistance and the social benefit of the project, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to discuss it, as such a practice must necessarily be discontinued. I will therefore vote in favour of the proposal to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 33. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ziherl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar to the question of Mr Ziherl on the basis of the starting points and guidelines of Slovenian foreign policy. Milenko Ziherl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u243	Thank you again very much for your words, Mr President. In this case, too, I believe that there was not enough time to address the issue of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the prioritisation. A number of errors have occurred in the foreign policy area or in some cases Slovenia has been in a strange light because of some orientations and guidance from the past. It has happened that some particularly fast-growing countries have not received any contact with our external political institutions. I can list them: Mexico, Brazil, South Korea, and perhaps another country in the area of gazelle. On the other hand, in the last year, there have been two very intense contacts with countries, or leaders, who are formerly or lastly fighting for their position without harming thousands of dead. Especially in the case of Libya, we can say that the situation is worrying, because Gaddafi's anti-offensive would mean thousands of dead and also refugees. Relations with Libya have also involved arms trafficking in some cases, which is of course problematic at times when uprisings and bloody repressions occur. Just before the rebellion happened to have intense contacts in this hot area, when other European countries had already correctly assessed that Libya and its leader was a non-grass person, when they even suspended ministers in some countries because they were still connected to Libya, we were still in intensive contact with this country. However, the crown of all things was reckless and reckless statements the day before the United Nations Security Council resolution on Libya, when the orientations of Slovenia, the President of the State or the Foreign Minister or the President of the Government were in the opposite direction. I recall the Foreign Policy Committee meeting when the Minister mentioned that this was an internal Libyan thing and that we would be in a coalition of willing ones. I therefore propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly, if not, but we will do it on the Foreign Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal and Minister of Finance Dr. France Križanič to Alenka Jeraj's question on the purchase of luxury cars through tax wheels and thereby damage to the state budget. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 40. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with Parliament's proposal, Mr Györek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Györek's question about the promotion and revitalisation of failed Slovenian food processing establishments was addressed to Mr Židan. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SNS Group shall be given by Miran Györek,
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Given that we were at the end of the discussion of the question with the Minister, or that I am saying good-bye to some of the colleagues and colleagues who were still sitting here, I would still like to know what was going on with my question. In fact, it was to analyse the collapse of major agri-food processing companies such as MIP Gorica, Ormož Sugar Factory, ABC Pomurka or Pomurka Meat Processing Industry, ABC International and so on. And then we wanted to refresh the memory a little bit with the minister, find the reasons why today there is such a crisis in agri-food, so much talk today about resolutions, strategies, action plans and laws related to agriculture and the agri-food processing industry. That is why I have proposed that the hearing be held in the National Assembly on this subject to find the reasons for such a situation and I have a feeling that Mr Minister does not wish to. I don't know why he doesn't want to, but he knows where the reasons are. Here we can operate with concrete names, with managerial acquisitions, with capital acquisitions, with judicial proceedings at the Murska Sobota Court, which run in this regard and with the consequences that are beating us today. It is the decline of agriculture in northeastern Slovenia, poverty, 270 butchers in the pomur region on the road, high sugar prices, not to mention further. And if this is not worth one debate in the National Assembly, then the future of our agriculture and our agri-food industry, despite today's adoption of the resolution, is in vain, despite the very carefully considered agricultural land law. I therefore call on my colleagues and colleagues to take this topic seriously, if we really have anything to say — or are these just words — to food security, to regulate the system of ensuring healthy food in Slovenia. I therefore ask you to support my proposal to hold a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Mr Jerovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question by Mr Jerovš on the consistency of foreign policy. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be given by Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Reputable, orderly, credible countries have within them a coherent foreign policy between the rulings and the opposition. It is absolutely normal, however, that the rulings within are coordinated on the international issues of one country. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in Slovenia for a long time. At the previous meeting, colleague Milenko Zicherl asked similar questions, and the warnings apparently did not fall due, as the fragmentation within the ruling policy in relation to important and key international issues is only deepening and increasing, and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community is declining. Yesterday, I gave the Minister for Foreign Affairs a number of such cases and asked him, because the lack of alignment is in relation to the pressing issues related to the key crises in the world, such as Afghanistan, with regard to the internal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the future fate of the country. Disagreement is in relation to resolving open issues with the Republic of Croatia. Let me say that the President of the Republic met with the President of Croatia last week and our Ambassador in Zagreb did not know at all that this would happen one day earlier. This is an unheard-of and witness to the great battles between the centres of power in foreign policy within the rulings of Slovenia. Most obviously, however, the whole matter broke out with the efforts of the international community to prevent the slaughter, revenge on Gaddafi, crimes against the people of their country in Libya, because it was part of Slovenian politics, the highest representatives before the Security Council resolution against the imposition of the Security Council resolution, and this has become evident outside our country. That is why, in its reply, the Minister has mainly identified that there is always the same position. I told him that it was obvious that Mr Kumr had been ordered to ask President Pahor to correct the impression, he asked him about the latest position, the Slovenian position towards Libya, which in itself shows that the positions change very quickly. Such an uncoordinated Slovenian policy cannot be in the future, because it causes great damage to the country and diminishes its reputation. It is therefore necessary to discuss this in order to give the Government certain guidelines in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Tisla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejana Jediana to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u249	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members and all present! Yesterday I asked the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food about concessions for state forests. We know that Slovenia is largely covered by forests, so it is one of the most wooded countries in Europe and is the only raw material we have in abundance. But with forests and wood, the masters are uneconomically, for they drive the logs to neighbouring countries, where they fuel it, and then they drive back to Slovenia semi-manufacturings and elements, and also through Slovenia to port and forward. We know that for 10 years concessions have been granted to some forest economies and others, but the cubic metre of wood is now paid about €6 per cubic metre, the minister has somehow promised that this will increase to €11, but the country does not have much, nor does the local community, nor even local producers. On the other hand, the timber industry is failing. Domestic wood would be used at home, leaving waste that would be green energy. However, this linkage is not yet too small or too small, so that, like we said in our diet, "let's buy our own," and in the forests too, we stick to the processing of our own wood at home, three-quarters go into waste, only one-quarter of the wood goes into final products. In this way, more workers could be employed in this area and other energy products should be imported less. Since the topic is very broad and important for the Slovenian economy and employment, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 38. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Branko Marinič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a director responsible for local self-government and regional development, Duše Trbec Bučan, to the question of the question of the 4th call for the so-called southern border, the development of border areas with Croatia. Mr Branko Marinič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In fact, the Minister's reply to the question raised raised a legitimate dilemma on the fairness of the allocation of funds, which are strictly intended, at least stands and so requires the content of the invitation to tender. It is amazing that the tendering of these public funds is increasingly being advertised by the affected municipalities, not in a specific case, including in all other tenders. One such substantive issue has already been proposed by a coalition colleague today. I myself have proposed a specific matter relating exactly to the definition of an invitation to tender for development assistance to municipalities at the southern border. Unfortunately, yesterday the Minister provided an answer to the content of the invitation to tender, which I asked about, that 85 municipalities in Slovenia could apply. This time 52 congregations were elected or were successful. Unfortunately, EUR 12 million, as far as the 4th call for the development of border areas with Croatia, did not give rise to the order of as many as 5 and 6 Halo municipalities, from Zreč to Majšperk, which is, of course, a phenomenon that is precisely called for a broader debate in the National Assembly on the specific subject and others, since Members and Members would thus receive answers from the relevant services of individual ministries and explain why – despite the fact that the call for proposals itself is strictly intended – it would take into account some other criteria which could, unfortunately, even say that the funds are divided perhaps in political colours, which is contrary to the basis and the basic tender, which is strictly intended. Once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, let us open this debate, it will benefit not only those of us who are here, but, above all, those who are also targeted at strictly earmarking the content of the call.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday, 23. 3. In 2011, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. For the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, which proposed the law, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. Since the proposal for a law due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 14 which you have received. I give the floor to the Government's representative on the harmonisation amendment. State Secretary Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. This is the harmonisation amendment to Article 14, where, in the third paragraph, the words 'information on taxes paid and contributions made by a foreigner referred to in Article 21(6) and Article 22(2) of the first paragraph' shall be added after the word 'transmitted'. This is a harmonisation amendment necessary for the adoption of the amendment by the 21st and 22nd Articles at the meeting of the home working body, and we ask for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-29-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 24. 3. In 2011, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government which has proposed the law, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing everyone that the Law-Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 26th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
