ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Silva Črnugelj, Mr Miroslav Klun, Mr Mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Villa Trofenik and Mr Alexander Zorn. I invited the President of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Minister and Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 20th item of the agenda, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Dr Zdenko Čebašek Travnik to the 27th item of the agenda, the President of the Council to the 30th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 7 October 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the agenda items except this morning, on behalf of the SDS Group, for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda of the Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency with proposals for conclusions. I cannot put this motion for withdrawal to a vote because it is not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given that proposals for the withdrawal of a point should be submitted to the President of the National Assembly no later than 12 noon before the beginning of the meeting. Mr. Tone Anderlich, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u2	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u3	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u4	Mr President, I ask you how it is possible to set the agenda for the meeting of the National Assembly at a closed meeting. This is contrary to the rules of procedure and everything that has been done in this house for 20 years. The next item will be closed to the public – after setting the agenda it will be half an hour's rest and we will go out again and again through the entire security procedure and otherwise you cannot accept at the closed meeting of the agenda. The meetings of the National Assembly shall be primarily public and only in exceptional cases, when it is specifically determined by law or in any way, the meeting shall be closed. This is unacceptable and I ask you to open a meeting of the National Assembly for the Adoption of the Agenda, because there is something else at this meeting than the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services, and therefore the agenda should be adopted at a public meeting, as will the part to be discussed on the conclusions and recommendations. That's what you wrote in the paper, and now we're working on a closed session of something we can't do. I ask you kindly to complete this procedure with a closed session and we accept the agenda at a public meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. The meeting shall be open to the public at the time of setting the agenda. The session is open to the public! It is, however, that we have carried out these measures so that there will be no more time to re-check the hall before the meeting is closed to the public. Can I explain again? If I can explain it one more time. Last week we had a meeting where we did exactly the same thing. The point is that, at the time of the beginning of this meeting, the hall was checked with all the measures to be taken. And the measures taken to enter the hall this morning are intended to make sure that when we take a break, the hall does not again check, since this would take a substantial amount of time. However, consideration and adoption of the agenda shall take place at a public meeting. Mr. Anderlich, are you satisfied with the explanation? It's just that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u6	I'm not happy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u7	Consideration and adoption of the agenda [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u8	Because it says something else on the invitation. [[...]] Because it says here, "the suspension of the session for 30 minutes to prepare for the meeting without public presence", which means that what you are doing now should be in those 30 minutes, nothing else. It was therefore unclear whether we also had a closed meeting on the agenda, or whether we had only a point 1 or 28.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. I'm telling you again. This part, reception and consideration of the agenda shall take place at a public meeting. The point is that if we wanted to do all these activities to check the hall, this would require much more time than the tasks that need to be done now. Mr. Pavel Gantar, did you still want procedural? No, thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. We received a report from the Mandate-Election Commission only on Friday, not during college or after college, but only around 6:00 p.m. at night. That's how the report is anti-dated, what you've divided into tables of sent-off groups. Therefore, it was also not possible to submit a request for withdrawal of the item from the agenda earlier because there was no report. And we did it this morning when we got this report on the table. I therefore propose that we vote on this proposal for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda, as usual, and that these abuses are not used in the procedure, that the documents are not withdrawn, that they are not then anti-dated, and that this prevent the parliamentary groups from reacting properly to the documentation coming into the procedure of the National Assembly. However, I think it is unhygienic that we are deciding today on the composition and that we will decide at this meeting on the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, it is true that the Supervisory Board of the National Information Operator is at the last meeting of the National Assembly. And that the measure is full, this was suggested by the Government, which, two days before it even came up with a proposal for a supervisory board, was not an elected confidant, so it only carries out ongoing business. In this case, and also in some of the other personnel matters that we will decide on, it is a matter of complete political non-hygiene in this mandate and also in this final part of the conclusion of this mandate. I therefore demand that we decide on this proposal, which we have written to withdraw from the agenda of this session for the composition of the STA Supervisory Board, and if there is as much political hygiene left in this country, you will also support this withdrawal proposal. Anyone who employs in such a way that he tries to settle all fundamental matters at the last meeting, while not having a mandate at all when he proposes to carry out only ongoing business, does not, in fact, do so out of some will, some benevolent person to the situation in the country, but does so solely because of political speculation. And that's what this proposal is. Mr President, I propose that you put our Group's proposal to the vote by voting on the withdrawal of the point - the composition of the STA Supervisory Board from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Look, I'm not going to touch the content, but the Mandate-Volution Commission was working on Thursday, and on Friday we presented the material to the College. Friday. The third paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that proposals for the withdrawal of the agenda item shall be submitted no later than 12 noon. Once again, on Thursday, after the meeting of the College on Friday, we issued this timetable, where the point is included, and on the basis of this business case, I cannot put this proposal to the vote. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The material for the College contained only mandate-holder matters, without 30.a, 30.b., 30.c., 30.d. agenda item, this was not the case. And when the College decided at 12 o'clock on Friday, there was no specification for election cases. What you're saying, what you gave after the College, happened after college on Friday after college, this afternoon, I don't know what time it is. And now you are asking the members of the National Assembly to be on duty on Friday, Saturday and Sunday by 12 noon on which items will all be placed on the agenda. I think it would be normal for a specification to be drawn up by the College on Friday afternoon if the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission was closed and the points of election would not be dealt with. That is why today we have proposed a point, as we have suggested, to withdraw from the agenda. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President of the National Assembly, cannot be implemented in this way or only in a specific way, not in conditions where all matters are chaotic. This means a kind of abuse of procedure when the president of the working body issues a report on Friday, dates it on Thursday, the date writes on Thursday and so on. Formally, however, this occurred there around 6 p.m. on Friday — the report as well as the remaining reports. I don't think there's any way for the National Assembly to act in this way in the last session, which is before the end. I therefore propose that you put this proposal to the vote and that things do not get as complicated as they have been in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Business proposal, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. I propose that we do not vote on this proposal, even though this is a decision that you will take, because the practice so far is the work of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the inclusion of a point on the agenda of all meetings, that it is always open until the end of the meeting. That is why we always have election issues at the end, and you know that during the meeting of the National Assembly itself, the Mandate-Election Commission has met several times, made some decisions and then been informed afterwards, so that this is a matter of deceiving some other work that would be at this meeting today. Otherwise, all I have to do is say why the report by Friday. This will be said by those who have prepared it, but in their own good health, those who delayed the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission on Thursday. Three times after 45 minutes we had a lame break and the result was that that day, Thursday, this report could not be written and it was written on Friday. You have to attribute this to yourself and to yourself this great success, that of course the report was written only on Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. According to the explanation and Mr. Franco Juri, do you want to do this? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u16	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u17	There is no debate on this business proposal. Procedurally, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u18	Mr President, I propose that you do not comply with the request of the SDS Group because all procedural conditions are met. The fact is, the delay was due to SDS. Today, however, Mr Tanko has made clear the political intention of this proposal, which has nothing to do with the procedure, but he has given quite a few substantive reasons, of course subjective, which do not justify the vote on this request. I therefore propose that this should not be voted on and that we continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I said at the outset that the motion for withdrawal had not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that I would not put it to the vote. And we are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by consideration: Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data; Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the reception of persons whose residence is illegal; Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the adoption of the Agreement on the reception of persons whose residence is illegal; Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange; further Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on temporary traffic between Canada and the European Community and its Member States; Proposal for an act on the completion of the Act on the International Association of the Association of the International Conventions of Energy. You received an extension proposal by letter dated 14. Ten. 2011. I propose that we discuss all five proposals for enlargement together and we vote separately on each proposal. Would you like a representative of the proposaler for enlargement? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? [[He's not here.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mrs Majda Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u20	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to propose an extension of the agenda of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly with the law, which we have pointed out in due time, by means of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance – did I overtake you? – I can explain within this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u21	We will also come up with this proposal of yours, which I will also explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u22	Then later. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u23	Therefore, the representatives of the parliamentary groups do not wish to speak. I am closing the debate on the proposals for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. So, Members of Parliament and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to expand the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data. We're voting. Presence is not appropriate, so we will repeat the vote. We're voting. I find that we are not concluding, so I am adjourning the meeting in 10 minutes when we vote for the third time. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll resume the session at 9:35.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members! Let's get back to work. This is the third time we have voted on the proposal to expand the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the bill as the 23rd edition of the agenda on Wednesday, 19. Ten. 2011. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to know what the device is on the balcony. Indeed, today, when Owl arrives in this house, we are already being observed. Some say it's some kind of radiation device that interferes with human concentration. I really want to know what special devices are needed here; what kind of observation are we under right now? If anything, Members should be informed of the conditions under which we are in this Chamber. I don't think we need to be observed and monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. We're going to provide you with this answer, because at this point, I really can't give it to you. Your Honor, colleagues and colleagues, may I ask you? We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the reception of persons whose residence is illegal and the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the reception of persons whose residence is illegal. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. I'm guessing we're not concluding. I therefore propose a second time to the vote. We're voting. I'm guessing we're not locked in again, so I'm taking a 10-minute break, because we're voting again at 9.48.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the admission of persons whose residence is illegal and the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Kosovo on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the reception of persons whose residence is illegal. We are voting on this proposal for enlargement for the third time. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the bill as the 23rd item of the agenda on Wednesday, 19. Ten. 2011. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange Programme. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Dear colleagues! [[...]] There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.9]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the bill as the 23rd item of the agenda on Wednesday, 19. Ten. 2011. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between Canada and the European Community and its Member States. We're voting. I'm guessing we're not concluding. That is why we are voting on the proposal next time. We're voting. I find it inconclusive, so before the third vote, I interrupt the meeting for ten minutes and we will vote on 10.01.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is the third time we have decided on a proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between Canada and the European Community and its Member States. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the bill as the 23rd item of the agenda on Wednesday, 19. Ten. 2011. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for an act supplementing the Succession Notification Act with regard to the conventions of the United Nations and the conventions adopted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 44 Members present. I find that we are inconclusive, so we repeat the vote. We're voting. I'm rediscovering indiscretion. That's why I'm canceling the session in 10 minutes. I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes, and we will vote for the third time on the proposal at 10.13 minutes. The session has been suspended.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u29	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. Thirdly, we decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for an act supplementing the Succession Notification Act with regard to the United Nations Convention and the conventions adopted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft act as paragraph 23d of the agenda on Wednesday, 19. Ten. 2011. The Zares Group proposed that the agenda of the 32nd meeting of the Assembly should be extended by consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act, the reduced procedure, EPA 289. The proposal for enlargement is contrary to the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and therefore the National Assembly will not discuss and vote on this proposal. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received with reference to it and the proposed additions. We're voting. Mr. Tanko, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues! This coalition is a coalition to create problems. The SDS proposal was not alone in this mandate, which was thus addressed. Although the reasons for the procedural proposal that we have put to the withdrawal of the item from the agenda came after the reference, you have neither addressed it nor put it to the vote. In short, it seems extremely inappropriate for us to see you at the last meeting of the National Assembly as you did the entire mandate. The coalition could vote on this proposal, reject it or confirm it, whatever. However, even if the proposal is not put to the vote, it seems to me that this is a major problem. Especially since, as I explained in the introduction, the points of election were not yet in the agenda of the College of the National Assembly, which decides which points will be dealt with. Given that this specification was created much later, six, seven hours later, our proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda as regards the national information operator, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency was justified. I'm afraid that's not what we came up with. I believe that those in charge of preparing the meetings of the National Assembly should focus on obtaining the conclusions adopted by the working bodies on time at the College table. If all the items of the agenda of the National Assembly could have been defined for or not in time, it is said, including those of the working bodies which have been sitting at that time, and even in this way classified, this could also have happened with the point of the optional case. There is no valid reason why this was not done in time. It would also be appropriate for the coalition to gather at least at the last meeting of the National Assembly in order to confirm at least the agenda. Thus, all this decision depends entirely on the opposition parties, despite the fact that you are playing them. We will participate in the vote on the agenda. However, we will vote against the agenda because we believe that some items on the agenda have been unduly classified in such a way that it has not been possible, even as you have set out, to react with procedural proposals for withdrawals of items from the agenda. In short, it does not seem appropriate for the State Assembly to decide on the mandate issues at its last meeting, and this point is proposed by the Government, which has long expired. That's why we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The items were placed on the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with current practice. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the agenda of the 32nd meeting of the assembly has been set. I'm asking you to listen to two more information. On the question of Mr Jožet Jerovška, the services informed me and I provide the following information. Since the National Assembly will consider the reports of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services bearing the code of secrecy, it is necessary to implement all measures in this regard, as required by the Law on Secret Information and Under-Laws, in particular the Regulation on the Protection of Secret Data. The device you see on the balcony of the hall is an electronic device disruptor set up in accordance with the performed anti-observatory inspection of the space. The practice is always the same, the introduction of electronic devices is not allowed. This is also an additional measure required by the abovementioned Regulation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that Mr Jožef Bernik, Member of the National Assembly, died during the 2000-2004 term. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] I hereby adjourn the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly for thirty minutes to prepare the services of the Assembly to begin the discussion of the 28th item of the agenda, which will be held without public presence. We'll continue the meeting at 10.51. The Members and Members who will remain in the Chamber will be able to receive the Commission's report in ten minutes, and they will also take it up against their signature in the Chamber. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 10.22 p.m.]] Twenty-eight. Agenda item — Report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services. Discussion on the report [[without public presence]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u32	Dear Members, we continue with the adjourned 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the 28th item on the agenda, which is the 2010 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a debate on the draft positions and conclusions presented to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you. No, I thought we had an affair with my buddy Slapnik, but apparently it is, so I'm gonna take this opportunity. The Commission's report is in conclusion, so to speak, tendingly speaking, because it notes that Owl is supposed to blend into some kind of Judgment, I think it is also literally used. Unfortunately, this prejudges the credibility of the conclusions themselves. In the material itself, there are a lot of interesting points, and I must say, I was also deeply intrigued by Mr Montenegro's statement that, if I understood correctly, the functioning of the Member of the Coalition of this National Assembly – the Intelligence Service – should also be followed. Since I have not found such information in the material itself, I would first be interested in knowing more about it. Another time. Highlights are somewhat unsatisfactory or lacking in the part that relates to the priorities of our intelligence service. And in that chapter where this is addressed, some countries are highlighted, while others are missing, which are probably also very active and were very active in the Republic of Slovenia in 2010. Now, I wonder whether this choice was the choice of the drafters themselves or whether it was an objective mirror of the actual situation in the field of intelligence. I am also afraid that some of the emphasis, such as, say, several times, on the risk of Islamic fundamentalism – this may be quickly misused in political discourse to restrict certain rights when they do not wish to become this document and this report also some political basis for further actions that would not be in line with the principles of the rule of law or human rights. But these are the hypotheses that I am asking here as an open question to the drafters of this report, who unfortunately do not convince me, particularly in that final work. The conclusions also show the distinction between the work of the military intelligence service and the civil intelligence service. And the intention of the authors of this report is clear, however, that they focus only on the alleged shortcomings or the alleged controversy in the operation of the Owl. I repeat, however, that the conclusions have a strong political charge, in this respect they are not convincing, and I stress this - unfortunately they are not, because only the work of the commission of inquiry is important, we all agree, and I personally agree that intelligence services must be under the strict supervision of democratic institutions, that is, parliaments. Unfortunately, this is a lost opportunity, since it is primarily an attempt to rehabilitate the former leadership of the Owl, it is not an attempt to show alleged personnel cleaning, politicization or even the destabilisation of the Owl. And it follows from this address that the report has been made very uniformly, that it has a significant political character, but does not answer some key questions of protection of rights, including human rights, when it comes to the supervision of intelligence services. I'm so sorry I won't be able to file this report. It is a lost opportunity, but we hope that intelligence services will always be under the strict control of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Anderlich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u35	Mr. Chairman! I have already proposed in a closed part that Members of the public sector should, in accordance with the report's first page, 'persons who are familiar with this report shall be obliged to protect the confidential nature of the data listed therein and the obligation to protect confidential data shall not cease with the termination of the mandate'. This provision in the law makes it very clear that Members, in their work, can and have all the right of access to the data contained in this report in the manner provided for in the law; therefore, we can store and compare these data with the data contained in the recommendations and conclusions. Since there is a clear gap between recommendations and conclusions, opinions and conclusions from what can be read in the report, it is illogical and incomprehensible, and I think that this is a rather unusual closure of information for Members and the impeding of normal work. I believe that the attempt of the majority in the parliamentary supervisory committee, which has both the president and the majority, is the intention of the public work to try in a politicised way to present something that should have a basis in the report, is something that leads to untransparent work in the National Assembly. However, it is different that some things in this mandate have also been added to, improved, improved by the Commission's proposal for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, as well as in this report, and this public work says that it was a matter of drafting legislation, proposing legislation and adopting legislation by the ruling coalition in order to create conditions for the abuse of these services by one or more political options. This is simply not detectable from this report. Since it is the custom for certain services, especially these security services, in the National Assembly to exceed their powers, they are obviously also, in this case, with instructions, I would not like to be sued again like this country, so I will now return this report, but for the further part, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] What Members can do. However, I think that we could also now allow Members to compare the report with the views of the public meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u36	Mr. Anderlich, this was an abuse of the rules of procedure. This is not a procedural proposal that could be put to the vote. The instructions were clear. With regard to handling classified documents, you are a full-time adult and decide for yourself what to do with them. Of course, even with regard to crimes, things are clear. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The 2010 report covers quite a few things that have been drawn since 2009 and have already been mentioned in part, but have not been completed by the 2010 report. The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services was not, however, at the will of the ruling coalition, although the importance of the Commission is not to be interpreted in particular, since effective supervision of services is important in terms of the protection of citizens' rights. The effectiveness and legality of the procedures carried out by the authorities by means of detection and prosecution authorities and intelligence and security services shall be assessed. However, it is the responsibility of the governing policy to ensure the functioning of all branches of government on the legal basis of regulatory powers and laws. The fact is that surveillance is based on confidentiality and control, which must be effective and must not be based on the harmfulness of their disclosure. It must ensure that it is an institution that provides work on respect for human rights and freedoms and that there is no abuse, which would arouse discontent, but give the public a sense of security. In its work, the Commission is aware that it cannot and must not affect individual services in order to reduce the efficiency of these services. It is noted that things happen when individual actions are classified as difficult in order to abuse the procedure of disguised investigation measures, which otherwise could not be carried out. The Commission also notes that, in certain cases, the measures were not sufficient grounds for the continuation of prosecution. It also notes that matters vary in individual cases in detection procedures, that derogations in the various police sectors are obvious. This raises doubts as to the eligibility of individual investigation measures, but does not end in the final stage with a criminal complaint. In such and similar cases, it is appropriate for the suspect to take advantage of the right of information and to look at the documentation obtained by the specific measures chosen under the articles permitted by the CAP. It is the responsibility of the Government to create clear conditions for the application of measures and the method of control that will prevent and expose abuses by the authorities of the executive branch. The Commission notes, however, that the current authority has fully subordinated itself to the police and substantiates all of this by reason of the report. Interestingly, the right party members were tapped and persecuted, and all were blameless on the left. Despite warnings and indications of irregularities, this is what casts doubt on justice when one party is under the supervision of the minister, the police, justice and the prosecution. Of course, this is where the unjust persecution of Zmanja Jelinčič comes in the first place, and the mayor of Maribor and Ambassador Magajna are also within the very strange framework of justice. As we have found, some have been listening for years, as it were, to the stock, and to the listening, even though they are supposed to be secret and in the interest of the public investigation – this has not happened. However, all the arrests and house investigations took place in the presence of journalists and cameras, who sent the whole story to the media and condemned such politically identifiable people already in the future. Whoever was behind all this probably doesn't have to guess. However, it was certainly a political interest and a discreditation of certain people. It is therefore necessary to prevent any influence of policy on professional work in individual bodies for political purposes, so that the minimum doubt of the Commission should alert those responsible and clarify all uncertainties and correct irregularities. Incomprehensible things have also happened in Slovenian railways. In accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, police inspected the place, seized the facilities and placed it under review, and the police cannot continue to collect notices because no prosecution proposal has been made. The Commission did not receive information on the equipment found, the manufacturer and the place where the equipment was installed. It is certainly illegal listening and audio recording in the premises of the Slovenian Railways, which is illegal and is known who can order it – both on time and for what purposes. It is a grave violation of human rights, of the fundamental human rights of every individual, and it would be right for the Ombudsman, who, as we can see, is also a very important binding article in the archives — in the decisions — to condemn and demand prosecution under Articles 137 and 138 of the Penal Code — this is not the case! There is a lack of follow-up and economic crime activity, as is widely known, this is a form of crime where corruption and customerism are the most corrupt and the effectiveness of the law enforcement authorities is negligible and the damage to the country is enormous. Surely, then, it makes sense to ask how independent these jobs are in their work and entangled in day - to - day politics. The police report shows that the use of covert investigative measures in 2008 and 2009 and 2010 has increased rapidly. Of course, I wonder what was behind the increase in this type of surveillance, but it is noted that there are no convictions. Who, then, benefits from this and for whose purposes? There is a sense of disappointment in the public at the authorities of detection and prosecution, as, as we can see, all arrests and house investigations take place mainly in the eyes of journalists and cameras. In short, there's a big pump going to happen and there's no final epilogue. Interestingly, judges also issued house orders for nighttime investigations until 6 a.m. when it came to searching for only a document that could be obtained online, since it was in all cases public documents, there was nothing to hide. In short, it was public documents that were also in public debate, such as spatial plans. As we can see, however, the investigative judge gave in the major cases an order that was very unusual, since it allowed for house investigations even during the nighttime, which the police have not served, but, as we know, this practice is applied in the event of an emergency in the case of terrorism, arms and drugs trafficking and life-threatening situations. In all the cases that we have dealt with on the Commission, the abuse of wiretaps and the seizure of liberty and the prohibition of the movement and communication of accused, both Mr Kangler, Jelinčič, Magajne and Mayor of Murska Sobota, we have come to the conclusion that the events have been overcrowded, as it could all be done in a more human way without the presence of journalists, as it was evidence or documents that were in most cases public and could also be obtained online at any time without the help of the army of police. Therefore, it seems that this was an unnecessary waste of public money. As we can see, in all cases it was a political construct, an abuse of detection and prosecution bodies for political purposes by a particular client who had the power of the police and the judicial authorities. I hope that this will be over now and that we can once again be proud of the independent police, the prosecution and the judiciary and that trust will return among the people. All of this would probably be avoided if the recruitment of the leaders were not of a political nature but of a professional nature, but of independence, this time the government's action could not convince us when he replaced the director of the Owl before the end of his term of office. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the report is correctly written, and in certain segments it is also critical. It points to irregularities that can be overcome by responsible and consistent work of the services over which the Commission also supervises. We support the positions and conclusions of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr Slapnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a member of the Commission, I must draw attention to the fact that the commission led by Zvonko Černač, especially in the last year or at the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, has become part of the pre-election campaign, in particular the largest opposition party of the SDS that wants to do so in every way, after its leader has been in court for the suspicions of crimes, to discredit the work of the judicial or investigative bodies. And they take advantage of every opportunity in the SDS. The meetings of the Commission have become a field of mutual political accounting and pressure mainly on the work of law enforcement authorities. The Commission thus places itself in the role of a judge, whose policies or law enforcement authorities should at all be investigated and acted against the policies which concern the suspicion of criminal services. I remind members of the commission that the police are obliged to investigate crimes, regardless of whether it is pre-election time, and whether or not it is visible policies. The last members of the Commission should know already because of the nature of the work of the Commission itself. As to the role and nature of the work of the Commission and the consistency of the behaviour of Zvonk Černač, I would like to draw attention to his extreme bias and even discrimination. Let me illustrate the latter in a few obvious cases. This summer, Mitja Kunstel, one of the alleged co-founders, wrote about the illegal activities of tracking, recording, intrusion and eavesdropping, on his website. I will not speculate on his motives for disclosure, but I am surprised by the response of Zvonko Černač; this time, the commission he leads has not shown any interest in the illegal invasion of the privacy of visible politicians or in the investigation of these shocking allegations. Therefore, in the Zares and SD groups, we requested an urgent meeting of the Commission, at which the competent authorities would request us to familiarise ourselves with the findings of suspected illegal invasions into privacy, and at the meeting we could also speak directly to Hvalica, former Member of Parliament, both Lois Peterle, former Prime Minister and Member of Parliament, both Mitja Kunstel and Brana Holiday and journalist Dejan Karba. Instead of calling the meeting, Zvonko Černač apparently put himself in the role of the court as instructed by others. He refused our request for an emergency session because things were supposed to get old. And even in the case of the late Dr. Drnovšek, even if he was admitted to this thesis, it certainly does not. We know that Dr. Drnovšk's alleged wiretaps were not performed until four years ago. He rejected our request because we did not add any evidence of surveillance, recording, and wiretapping. I therefore find his request absurd, as he exceeded his powers and his conduct discriminatory, since in comparable cases, the Members of the Victory of Jelinčič and Andrei Magajna and the Mayor of Kangler and Štichec convened an urgent meeting. Only that this was a legitimate investigation, recording and eavesdropping by the police, on the basis of orders from the court. It appears that the request, which involved both members of the commission and officials who were members of the opposition parties, was then the true colour. The proceedings of Zvonka Černač did not surprise me, especially after hearing the witnesses before the investigation committee on the Patria affair, when one of the witnesses, according to Mitje Kunstlja, was involved in the illegal tracking, recording, intrusion and wiretapping of the public service provider, also acknowledged the recording of one of the players in the Patria case and also showed professional knowledge of the activities mentioned for Darka Návra, a member of the Slovenian railways, surprisingly, if we take away the record of blogger Kunstl that the said person had framed the late president of the country into the railway car. It appears that Zvonko Černač and his client are afraid of investigations and their possible involvement in these actions. Let me also mention the conduct of Zvonk Černač or some of the members of the Commission when they adopted a decision that personally accused me of inventing an unlawful intervention in the telecommunications privacy of SD Melite Župevc and said that it was an unworthy political manipulation and deception of the public. The last act of Zvonk Černač was another in a series of attempts by the largest opposition parliamentary party SDS in order to discredit the President and also me as a member of the investigative commission, before the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which he addressed the final report on the parliamentary investigation of the issue and financing of freemen. The press conference's magnetogram, which presented the final report on the parliamentary inquiry into the issue of free-of-charges, clearly proves that no one has deceived anyone. Let me warn you that this magnetogram has also been delivered to all members of the Black Sea Commission. It's over. It is right that this term of office of the National Assembly and thus the work of the Commission should be terminated prematurely. I don't think he deserves to be at the head of this commission for a day, because he almost managed to completely escape the role and importance of parliamentary control, not to mention the political decontamination he caused by it. That is why we will oppose the Commission's work on the monitoring of intelligence and security services in the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr Chernač has the floor as a proposaler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u41	Mr. Slapnik, I'm sorry, there's no help. He sees and hears what he doesn't, but it's not the worst. What's worse is that because others don't see what they don't see and they don't hear what they don't hear, they're deeply offended. I think he's dumping himself and he doesn't need any more comments. I would just like to reject one inaccuracy with regard to the reference to the urgent meeting requirement. With regard to people who are already deceased – an urgent meeting – I have called on the applicants to supplement this material, not refuse, to supplement it and I have received the relevant information from the police. I haven't received any updates until today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor. Get ready, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Slapnik, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. A replica of Black Bell. If, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the Head of the Group of Members requests an urgent meeting and therefore submit the required documents in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is no way, I do not know him, cut to Mr Chernač in order to call for any additional supplementary documents. If the President does so and demands the impossible and also makes it conditional on the reference of the sitting itself, then this is in practice exactly the same as he does not wish to invoke it and does not intend to do so. I believe that if thousands of relevant documents were to be submitted, which would confirm that Mr Chernač would not have called for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u45	I think Mr Slapnik has been sitting in these benches for some time now. In addition, the former President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, has been sitting with him for some time now – and they have little meaning. Let him tell you how many times he asked for additions to the materials for the sessions that were not perfect.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor. Get ready, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it would probably be easier for the President of this Commission to tell the members what he wants them to do to complement their proposal for an emergency meeting. That's probably not what the chairman of this committee told me, at least that's what the members told me. If I may only have a moment's content. I think that all the findings and views of the Commission and, consequently, the conclusions must be rejected, because they are based on some mental framework of a conspiracy theory that does not correspond to the actual state of affairs. These findings and the views of the Commission, as well as the conclusions I have read several times, seem quite incredible to me. How can someone today, in 2011, write down such conclusions, is quite amazing. In recent weeks, the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission has carried out one job in particular over the past few months – that is to say that it has become a press representative of those in police procedures. And I think it was a manifest violation of procedures and an abuse of the part of the commission itself. Thus, we have been able to monitor the Commission's meetings over the past few weeks, which were not a problem to refer to, at which people who have been in the process – so you know that in our country it is still true that everyone is innocent until proven guilty by a legal judgment – these people have had the opportunity to say everything they think about police procedures, everything they think about law enforcement agencies, and Mr Zvonko Černač has assisted them very well. And in this particular case, it seems to me that it was the apparent abuse of this commission. As I will say, once again, the Security and Intelligence Commission has put itself in the role of a press representative of those who felt deprived, and I think this is, to say the least, wrong. Among the findings and views of the Commission is one very interesting thing – that "by rejecting the conclusion of the report, the parliamentary authority has given a clear signal to the supervisory services that the Commission does not have to take the Commission too seriously". It is not possible to take the Commission seriously because, as long as the Commission accepts such conclusions and conclusions, it is very difficult to take it seriously. Very briefly. My colleague Slapnik had earlier said those essential things that I myself wanted to explain and to argue why I believe that the conclusions and views of the Commission should be rejected. As it is said, I think these findings, these positions are unbelievably inconvenient to the actual state of affairs. But it is very interesting that you always use different vats. It would be good to use the same. Every time it comes to another political sex, you say it's an abuse, someone's subordinated the law enforcement organs, but when it comes to political opponents, yours, but everything is in the best order. However, you probably think it would be necessary to act even harder and harder. So, as it is said, I, or the views, the conclusions, or the conclusions, do not support the conclusions and I will vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A very extensive report by the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services opens up a lot. Many things have worsened in this country as well. It's not just this country before the financial bankruptcy. The full erosion of the rule of law is also shown in this report. Therefore, the 9th position of this Commission was adopted by a majority and not by a group of Members, as Kumer tried to insinuate when he represented the position of his parliamentary group, but was a legal and well-founded decision. And this 9th position is that the rule of law in the field under the supervision of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in the work relating to the Owl and the special investigation measures of the police is a serious test. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of evidence for this every day. What awaits us when abuse may occur in such serious services that have such an arsenal of special methods. And documented some things were used for political purposes. That the criminal police, also under the supervision of this commission, were either politically pressured or politically instrumentalised, two percentages of State secretaries at the Ministry of the Interior at the time of Katarina Kresal. Mr. Klemenčič, when he did not hold back, resigned. And now, at this resignation of Katarina Kresal, we have learned that the following day he submitted a complaint to the Commission for the prevention of corruption, then under the leadership of Mr Kos, because of the contract for the lease of the National Investigation Office. Obviously, he knew at the time that it was a corruption issue, but he was disabled. And the corruption issue began only after he became president of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Of course, Mr Kos did not consider this. But when it got so far that on August 9th, think, in the time of the sour cucumbers, there was a play between Soltes, Pahor and Kresal that Soltes could not hide the huge irregularities, Kresalova offered a one-hour standoff and the Prime Minister did not accept it. But the next day, the anti-corruption commission said it was a major corruption, and that's when Kresal's resignation. A few days later, an obstacle also fell for further investigations, and at that time, Mr Damjan Lah, the Secretary of State, who kept this under the cover, resigned. And you want more proof of the politicization of these services? Don't talk about what can happen in Owl! See, this Slovenian absurdity, instead of saying first of all about another point, where it appears from the third or second point that the Commission finds that special investigation measures are not always applied in accordance with their purpose, and one of them has been eavesdropped on the stock. [[...]] In some cases where they could be used to investigate the suspicions of criminal offences, these measures have not been applied, they are not applicable. Her colleague Jerajeva's commission on these transactions in Ljubljana, in the framework of Ljubljana County, with real estate, came to horrendous conclusions on how Jankovic's family traded abroad, acquired financial resources. She's filed all the charges, a whole series of charges. Nowhere in the report does it appear that in the face of such suspicions of crime, Sova was aware of anything, even though the money was directed to the tax havens and then from tax havens, hotels were bought for the Jankovic family. Isn't this an eccentric case where Sova should have data and cut off this terrible wealth, this financial greed that has also been demonstrated by young people in Slovenia and many others? And which I support, but the most horrendous and inhuman is that Mr Jankovic spoke about it. He is synonymous with all these Slovenian oligarchs for financial greed in this country. This is Owl and the crime police, because they were politically controlled, they did nothing and failed. But we have to tell the Slovenians, if there was no political pressure, the political situation would probably be reversed and more normal. In my view, in this case it would be justified and it would be good for Parliament to run and establish a party, Mr Klemenčič, who has played a positive role in the fight against corruption. Probably Dr. Vehovar said they'd put him in a hospital if he was stupid enough to be out of control, he predicted it. I believe that this is because probably even in the case of the Jankovic family, he is opening up some corruption that is so terrible. He should be in elections, as was the case with "clean hands" in Italy, Di Pietro, because he changed and at that time disarmed Italian corruption and oligarchy. No! No! However, we are going to the election of Mr Jankovic, who should be the largest subject of all these services. Yeah, what do you think Jura's son is, this young man, 30 years old, is so brilliant, so brilliant? Yeah, well, then I'd do my graduation, then my dad wouldn't intercede and move him to another school where he'd do his graduation. Do you remember that affair? The high school found that there were no conditions for the year to fall, his father immediately moved him to another high school, and everything was fine there — to another institution by order! And Slovenians, probably, we will not support this, such corruption issues, such new values as Mr Jankovic predicted! These new values, that money was sent to the tax havens to buy graduations. Are these new values?Oh, my God! Let his sons keep them, or they must give them up. And with them, Mr Jankovic, I appreciate this, but not that he says he will impose new values on the Slovenians. Slovenians have values, very good values, only these financial greeders do not stick to them and it is therefore even more to demonstrate against financial greed. And we hope that in the Penal Code you will support an article that raises such attackers to the financial system of Slovenia and the sovereignty of Slovenia a crime of great treason. Yesterday, Mr Barroso also demanded the responsibility of the financiers, exactly what I propose in the Penal Code. That's exactly what I'm talking Financial liability for financial fraud. And if it were with us, then one candidate for the election and all that fame and advertising that's being done, it wouldn't be on the stage at the moment. And that would mean preserving Slovenian values. I must say that the second thing is, this disgusting behavior of this power at this time. For the second year, representatives of the criminal police and the Owls have not come to the National Assembly. At the hearing of their report! Can you imagine something like this happening in a democratic country?Oh, my God! Are these the new Jankovic values he says he's going to force on the Slovenians?Oh, my God! Are those the values?Oh, my God! And if they come, of course they don't want to come, because I would ask you why you didn't trigger anything about these enormous, horrendous remittances of money that was drawn from the pocket of Ljubljana's citizens and sent to Cyprus, Liechtenstein, the Cayman Islands and so on; they bought back hotels and so on. Hence, Owl has a mandate in connection with foreign affairs, but of course they do not want to report here because there is a television broadcast and people would hear how some families got rich at the expense of others. I would also ask them why they did not perceive what Director Dursa said in an interview a month ago that more than 100 million money was spent in the tax havens from Slovenia. More than 100 million! She's been under pressure for almost two months now, ever since she said that. That could be why we could report what they've been like since then if they're acting stupid themselves. We can see that only one family is in tax havens — this son of Janković suggested that I do not know how much money. Of course, this truth would shake the anticipated scenario of voter fraud. I would have shaken up that script. No! No! In fact, Mr Klemenčič will be declared crazy in this country, and he will be put in a hospital, as this sociologist has predicted, rather you will be putting your head in the sand of the Service and the Directors of the Service, where they are immediately politically engaged elsewhere, and they will not come to the National Assembly, which is a disgrace of a couple of excellence, an outrageous couple of exellences. They have no right to choose whether to report on their work by the Commission. They have to sit here! And I also call on the President of the Government to come here alone during the debate. He said, when the term came, that if you heard anything about anyone ever pressuring anyone, I would personally intervene. What kind of control functions? No! No! Meanwhile, in their supervisory functions, they have replaced all those who were willing to act in accordance with the rule of law and in accordance with the law and seriously prosecute crime and irregularities. Mr. Pahor was removed, and now he's shut up. I hear that these parties – after the elections, if all these truths about a family will remain silent and will not rise publicly, then you will probably disappear all these parties. But they say they're already gonna buy them, they're gonna be quiet. They've already been promised that they're quiet because otherwise it would be insane to be silent about all these horrors that have been happening. Because I think you've done a lot of things wrong, but I think most people are better, and most of them weren't involved in financial robbery, with financial greed. Most I don't think so, but you're quietly admitting that you support these financial irregularities, business irregularities, money laundering in tax havens, that's what money laundering is. How a young man, brilliant, declares 53,000 euros in income and then says 700 000 in a single business! And we know who that money is, where it came from. And see, when one listens to the stock, the other does not try to check the reasonable sums. Justifiable suspicions of crimes! Suppose, for example, that Maribor Mayor Kangler did something wrong in business, in land transactions. But we all know that Kangler is more than a thousand Jankovics in this business. A thousand more! I am not saying to check, but only for those who are a thousand times the number of these real estate transactions – land change – but interestingly, all those interesting lands were previously purchased from tax havens through the ownership of the sons of parishes. Isn't that interesting? What a nose those brilliant young men have! They knew exactly two years in advance which lands in Ljubljana would change their destination. The hectares and the hectares! And here you can see the politicization. I say they search every mayor, just start at the top of an icy mountain, or start an ice mountain to investigate. Not when the finger shows that he is guilty, so we will eavesdrop on the stock, so that we will not detect anything in those cases where the whole of Slovenia knows that the purpose of the land has been to pretend to be used for this purpose, to send enormous sums of money to the tax havens — from where it was taken, we also know — and that from that time it was purchased back land and used and bought property and hotels and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, even through this report, we must all come to terms with each other. You have predicted the rejection of these views. Do you confirm that it is right that these horrifying acts, terrible things, as the commission of inquiry has determined — that they stood by and did not want to see them? Are you confirming that the contract for the National Investigation Office and everything that's been going on, that the criminal police shouldn't have seen it as okay? That's what you're assuming. Does he then argue that you will be paid out of those extra profits that are obtained in such transactions because you will no longer come to the next Parliament? Does that hold? Consider how you will vote on these extremely precise conclusions and views! It is clear from every point of view that there is material evidence that this has been done and that Owl investigators and criminals on the criminal police are victims of the current policy. So I don't think you're weak, but the problem is, many people are holding to "stango" like that. Finally: Comrade Slapnik accused his colleague Chernač of lying about the phone number. I believe in Montenegro and the Commission because, Comrade Slapnik, you have produced a lie with the help of a press conference and people who have a lot of experience with the methods of the Udba, on my account. That I gave up my hospitality to the weapons of the Bedroom — a lie, a complete lie! And that there was only five days — a complete lie! And that there was only one tone — a complete lie! And you are the fruit of all these lies and misdemeanors throughout Slovenia, because of the fact that the commission caught you in another lie, thank God the work of the Commission is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u50	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Regrettably, the Commission has not investigated the role of intelligence services in various economic and political ties, which, by drawing up public opinion, create the ground for the unpunished looting of public goods and the killing of disruptive elements such as the client Zares. I'm talking about TES 6 and bats. The Commission did not want to investigate the role of Paravom [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] who was listening to Janez Drnovška, Bajuk, Peterlet and Praise. Commission [[...]] I'm sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In theory, parliamentary oversight of the functioning of security and intelligence services is an extremely important instrument available in parliamentary democracy, so that these services do not act unlawfully and do not unduly interfere with human rights and fundamental freedoms of people. And so, I said in theory, in this theory, I would expect that we will receive the fruit of this work, this control by our committee to oversee the activities of intelligence and security services, a report in such a way that we can say that it is credible, and that it can then also be supported by all those authorities in this country responsible for caring for the legality and respect of human rights. But this report, which we had just before us - because it is good, in its own way, that it is marked by a code of secrecy, because in fact it would not be right for some of its contents to come to the public - that is, the report is extremely biased, tending, as far as I am concerned. It stems from a series of wrong assumptions, and therefore the conclusions are also wrong and biased, in fact they are designed for the main purpose, namely to discredit the parties of the ruling coalition, in this context in particular one party leading the two main departments, namely the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. But the methods that this report uses are totally unacceptable. Of course, we have nothing to do with such a report. Moreover, of course, it is extremely inappropriate for professional cities not to speak the Slovenian language, so it is also very good for this reason that it remains classified. I had just heard in one of the debates that the Commission's conclusions and views, which it is today offering to adopt the National Assembly, are extremely precise. I'm sorry, if that's accurate, then we should say yet, precisely unacceptable are these views. Because, look at the vocabulary they're operating on. They're saying it's an investigation into Patricia's sequel. I'm sorry, what do you have in mind when you're talking about investigating Patrio's sequel? And there is a whole range of such things in these observations and opinions and so on in the report. So personally, I can't support these spoils and give them my voice. Once again, however, it is a shame, because it is actually a missed opportunity for parliamentary control to contribute more to the legality of our security and intelligence services. And it is with such a report and with the work of such a commission that our Parliament should also carry out one of its main tasks, which is to control these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u54	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Let's get Mr. Villa Trofenik ready. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. I will support this report because it reflects the security sector situation in our country and the findings and positions we have on the table reflect a comprehensive and quality report on more than 110 pages. I know exactly what's bothering this coalition. This coalition disturbs the conclusion that the police have become a tool in the hands of politics, political elites or one party. You just can't deny it. We have one man, Mr. Zalar, from one party, who is running two ministries, the police ministry and the Ministry of Justice, as at some time a strong totalitarianism. On the other hand, you have also adopted a law allowing the president of the country to enter into the appointment of the director of the Slovenian Police, a president who in some ways wants to put in place a presidential system that is typical of many unlisted countries. At the same time, you abolished three police administrations in Slovenia. In this way you have very centralised the Slovenian police and, of course, it is easier to rule the Slovenian police, the criminal service, because it is increasingly concentrated in one place. Of course, it is important for the rule of law and the regulated functioning of security and intelligence services that there are standards, laws. This, I think, in Slovenia we have a relatively well-managed and, of course, there is a system so that errors in this system can be detected. But sometimes we are quite weak here, and this happens more rarely. More rarely, however, when we find someone in a violation of the law to be responsible for the matter. Of course, the case of Owl’s affair, irregularities and crimes in this affair remain unpunished. Otherwise, it was found that Janša and Sanader were not negotiating any incidents in the Gulf of Piran, but the people who came with this information were rewarded. It would be difficult for anyone to deny the fact that at the time that Mr Istok Podbregar was at the head of the Owl, who was politically appointed a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, there was no real catastrophic situation in Owl at that time. See, in 2007 and 2008, the Attorney General's Office filed four requests against former Director Sova for an investigation or for an extension of the investigation for six offences of abuse of official office or official rights. In 2009, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office filed an additional indictment against Mr Podbregar for unjustified use in the service under Article 264 of the Penal Code. In order to repay the unlawfully deducted tax assets in connection with the operation of the former Director of the Owl, the State Attorney's Office has filed an action for reimbursement of the amount of EUR 61 000. The State's Attorney's Office has filed this action with 26 of them. 6. 2009 and, of course, until today or until a few months ago, the main proceedings have not yet been convened. Perhaps it is necessary to add here that the Ljubljana District Court of Records, in the case of Sova, has charged the most outstanding cases with the most backlog in this court. Of course, the case, which was the case in 2007, in 2008 the couple of exellence affair and the Ljubljana court identified these actions as unfavourable cases and lay on this court until last year. I believe that this is still the case today, or it would probably be the case in this court. We have heard on this site several times that there have been about four to five thousand additional jobs in the Republic of Slovenia under the mandate of the Government of Borut Pahor. So did Owl during this period of human resources. They began to recruit people back, even for a similar function as before 1990, when individuals followed the cultural circles of the New Magazine or opposition politicians and, of course, reported it in a specific location. Last year we also experienced the replacement of Director Sova, and what happened in front of TV cameras with a press conference, and this was also revealed by the dislocated intelligence department, where today's Director Sowe worked, a dislocated intelligence department in Koper. This same director of the Owl, current director of the Owl, also significantly violated legislation when he pressed the tag "secret" against the archival material of the Udba. He's broken it twice. The law didn't allow him to do that. This could have happened if this law had been confirmed at the referendum. And it is strange that Mr. Director of the Owl has pressed the code "secretly" against documents that are not at all owned by the Owl, which are owned or stored in the Archives of Slovenia. Of course, the Director is still in this position. In recent times, we have also heard or watched on TV that some mafia bosses in Slovenia feel quite safe. We have also heard the responses of the Slovenian criminal service that they do not know anything about this. Of course, either Owl or the criminals know nothing about it; that means they are doing bad or they do not want to know anything. See, recently the Italian press Gazzetta del Sud, which was August 4, 2011, reported in Trafico de cocaina on the mass arrests of cocaine traders in Italy. Italian media have found that these cocaine traders are using new routes. At that time, the Italians carried out 14 arrests on the basis of the prosecutor's decision in Bologna and came to the conclusion that a ton and a half of cocaine and Ecuadorian Quit had arrived in Ljubljana and Ljubljana further into Italy. The Austrians arrested and imprisoned Michael Kramer in Graz, who, according to an Italian press report, was to ensure that this drug was transported by private aircraft to Slovenia and Slovenia further to Italy. Thus, Ljubljana is located here on some point of the cocaine route, which is supplied by the Italian mafia. At the end of August or in the middle of August, I asked Katarina Kresal a question, but she did not answer anything. I have also asked the honourable Minister Zalar a question, and I have not yet received an answer. I asked if the Slovenian police are aware of this case, whether the Slovenian police have detected that we have become part of this international cocaine network, the beginning of which is Ecuador and is going through Slovenia to Italy. I also asked both ministers whether the Slovenian police are familiar with Mr Michael Kramar, which is sixty years old, a polyglot that the Austrian police have captured. I also asked whether the Slovenian market and part of the Slovenian political elite were provided through this cocaine network, which was revealed by the Italian police? As said, Katarina Kresal did not answer this question, but I believe that there is no lack of cocaine in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u56	The word is Mr. Willy Trophynik, he's not here. Mr. Mag. The priest, he's not here. Mr. Andrej Magajna! Get ready, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u57	We have heard that parliamentary oversight of the work of security and intelligence services is very important. We've been listening to this for 20 years. For 20 years, we have also been hearing suspicions that repressive authorities are politicising to abuse themselves to account for political opponents. Whether this is true or not, we can guess, doubt, and perhaps we can tell each other our own experience. In fact, I can say that we have never completely broken the past. Even when we're dealing with security intelligence issues or that I'm very specific, political police. If we compared ourselves with other countries in the Eastern bloc, we said we were building socialism with a more human face. Maybe that's partly true. However, we had structurally similar institutions and similar methods as other Eastern European countries did. They may not have been used as drasticly as they were in the East, but we did have a political police force. Did we break up with the political police in 1990? The political police had a very largely decommissioned system of operatives. For example, as early as 1989, we discovered wiretaps in the headquarters of Demos, in Sternen, with the help of technicians. That didn't surprise us much. I'd be more surprised if we weren't being monitored, so we wouldn't record our phone calls, so there wouldn't be a secret trace. What's interesting is that these special methods at the time weren't at all, at all, I don't know how they were hidden. I would even say, not because of awkwardness, but on purpose, quite clearly, and in them the message was clear: "Beware of what you are doing!" As I said before, I would be surprised if the system at the time would not have used these methods, given that there were so many personnel, so many operatives and all the techniques that it could have used. However, when we were building a legal system, we never asked ourselves whether, at this time 1988/89, when the mass use of these special police methods - political police - I say - had all the legal standards been applied after the then applicable legislation, decisions, tasks, etc. were issued. I doubt it. We have never actually explored this period, so there is reason to believe that part of these political police structures has actually remained, and that certain politicians or even parties, or perhaps individuals, have been at the disposal of their counterparts, and later in these political struggles they may have been able to use them in some way. For example, by infiltration into opposition parties, by destructive work in these political parties, by transferring information, gathering information, planting, etc. In this report, I was particularly concerned that in the last few years the use of special police methods has almost doubled. Why, I have not been able to understand, and I have not had a long time to report what has so dramatically increased the use of methods in these years, especially at the level of eavesdropping and recording electronic communications. In all the cases that we have heard in the last emergency session, the last session of the committee, where I was just an invited guest – I recommend that you read all the magnetograms of this session - has actually been suspected that today, after twenty years of abuse of these repressive organs. It's not just a conspiracy theory, as one of the MPs said today, and paranoia. I really recommend it. I am sorry that Members of the post, except for Mr Kumar, who was once present, did not attend this meeting, they avoided it, and today they are politicising what we said about the police. Indeed, it is reasonable to suspect that this institution is having a reasonable suspicion that, in fact, all proceedings are being initiated, it is being misused. One of the conclusions of this last session was that it is suspected that these measures are being applied to the political disqualification of people who are inadequate or who are being discredited by the existing authorities [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Magaina, time's up. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Get Dushan Kumer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. An old proverb says: "Trust is good, control is better." Above all, it is more effective. Unfortunately, not everyone in this room is aware of this. I recall the previous term when it was found at the time of the Janša government that something was wrong in the Owl – and it is a government service, as you know, and for it the highest responsibility of the Government – and it was appointed by a commission, which was called the Sturm Commission, because it was directed by Dr. Lovro Šturm, former Minister of Justice, and you are the same who are now sitting in the governing benches of the ruling coalition, started shouting and shouting, what the Government is doing because it wanted to regulate irregularities or also illegal activities in its own government service. In these reports, which eventually became public, we have read many things. As we have heard today from one of our fellow Members, they were then in 2007, four years since then, numerous complaints have been filed against the former director. Not one of them has ever had an epilogue. They're safely waiting for an outage. At that time, we read that from a secret fund that was not supposed to exist by law, there was a leak unknown to some 10 million 500 thousand Slovenian tolars or about 45 thousand euros. There were many other illegalities that spoke of the fact that the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency of the State of Slovenia did not act in the interests of the State and its people, but pursued other interests. The consequences of these interests have also been made public by the hearings of two former or former presidents of one country and the former leader of the opposition of another country. Moreover, these hearings were published in a way that made the public feel different from what was actually heard in these hearings. We should not have been born if there was respectable legislation. And there was something about these things that I'm not restoring, because it's a long way from what they said about the need to insist that the control mechanisms over these services are effective and uncompromising. At that time, it was said that these discoveries could have been a lesson for all, so that something similar would not have happened in the future. I'm not entirely sure we're far from doing anything today. I'm not entirely sure. Why am I saying this? This is because, as President of the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission, I cannot confirm this nor deny it. There are too many hidden things, hiding information, inability to see things that should be open. However, there is a problem for some democracy, for some democratic society, especially for young democracy, because it can have a significant impact on individual decisions in this country, political decisions, beyond the legal mechanisms and authority of the people. Secret services may be a problem in all countries if they are not properly monitored. And that's the way it is with us. With us, this danger is much greater. In this last term, even more so because he has a hand over the entire repressive apparatus, both the police and the prosecution, both the judiciary, one political party. Over the past period, even one person, who is also the vice-president of this political party, is of course nothing but a potential danger. As a result, I think that these control mechanisms available must be so successful. This makes it impossible to listen to statements made by some about the fact that the parliamentary commission is the one that creates problems because it has written down what is actually happening and has happened. By this logic, by the logic of what you're saying, we should be shivering and not seeing anything. And then all of you would be happy to write here the findings that although problems are of a smaller nature, but otherwise in general everything is okay and we think that everyone is doing well, no irregularities are happening. While the public has been faced with some cases in the last two years, on the outside, without further deepening into the intestines of individual procedures, they say that these services have been severely abused in these cases and that this abuse exceeded only the level of some operating methods and operations. Last but not least, the number of house investigations has doubled over the last period. Interesting! Do we have so much more efficiency on the other hand, we have so much more legal judgment on this subject?Oh, my God! We don't! Even something else is going on. Last time we read in the report of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, we have four legal judgments over the last period. Four. And that the financial impact, by the way, the chairman of this office could not even be defined. Despite the fact that there are known judgments, well-known cases and that these things are in some way public or at least known to him as the financial impact of this so-called money laundering. Very little. Far from the 100, 200, 300 million euros that some say have been transferred from Slovenian companies to companies in Cyprus, Liechtenstein and elsewhere. And basically, the data kind of tells us that this is a follow-up action if someone can't explain the origin of some EUR 5 or 10 thousand, not those that are problematic and are in a sophisticated way covered in various land purchases, where buyers are collectors from abroad and where overnight value increases by 10 or 100 times. And then, as a result, the companies that went through these procedures went into bankruptcy to cover up the traces of these practices. It is interesting that in all these cases it has not been possible to trace the use of these special investigation methods and means which could be extremely effective to detect offenders in these cases. There was no trace! However, we have traced the use in those cases where it was already clear to some layman that these investigative methods and not house investigations had to be used to obtain these data. Last time we heard that the disproportionateity of measures was used in most of these media cases. Most of what was sought through media-exposed house investigations could be obtained by a simple order on the seizure of items or documents or would not be necessary because the municipal and state authorities are obliged to give the police and others everything they need for their work. Therefore, it was not intended to investigate effectively in these cases these suspected crimes. In some cases, as I will later say on a specific case, it is even clear that there was no crime. None! But even if it did, all of these cases would be investigated quickly, efficiently and cheaper in a different way, without using specific methods and means, without house searches, without cameras, without hundreds of people who created the media size of LDS police performance. Because that's what this was all about. It was a matter of showing to the public how effective this policy option is in this area. It is not possible to do so, anyone who will be held accountable for these departments in the future must get that thought out of his head. Effectiveness in this area cannot be achieved through media exposure but through planned professional, professional work in areas that are clearly managed by the operational in this country. I must say that we have seen a great deal of professionalism in these services in this mandate, and I firmly believe that if this professionalism were used to the best possible extent, today we would have significantly fewer outflows of capital, illegal capital from our companies to accounts abroad. Of course, the day has only 24 hours, and if someone is fully involved in investigating something, which is either not a crime or gives the impression that something that is a crime is being investigated, then of course they cannot do something else, which is more substantively difficult, more important and has greater effects. I must say that the purpose of this report, not only for 2010, but also for 2009, will not go down in 2008 because we have essentially summarized what our predecessor, Mr Gantar, pointed out in the majority. The purpose of this 2010 report was to alert, not this government anymore, or this ruling coalition, but the future authority, because we do not know which and what will be the major problems in this area and that the risk of some political option in this area getting itchy is extremely large. It would be right to consider certain legislative changes in the part where, in this mandate, all key police personnel at the level of the Ministry have been replaced by one political option, in order to ensure that there is a possibility of greater expertise and less dependence on current policy, and, on the other hand, that, in some way, there should be a need to strengthen control over these services, which is called parliamentary supervision, which is absolutely insufficient in this part of the work called parliamentary supervision – and not all that is involved because it is not its purpose – there should also be other mechanisms that allow independent supervision in certain cases where it is not found to be wrong. What convinces me that our findings and conclusions are appropriate is that none of these cases that have been exposed have been investigated; neither the Minister, nor the Minister-General, nor the Director-General of Police have ordered any internal control to tell what was actually going on in these cases, especially in the light of the findings of the documentation in these cases, and given the circumstances in which these things happened. Because if we look at our fellow Member Magajno, Mayor of the Municipality of Murska Sobota, Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, Mayor of the Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana – where everything is okay, he is the greatest honest man in this country, nothing is going on here, it is clear – the Mayor of the Municipality of Koper, if you want, then we have the former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Pogačnik, by chance, this story happened to him just when it was necessary to sign the change of destination for Ljubljana, but he did not sign it for Smodinovac. It just happened. So if we look at all of these things, we find some denominators, the same points that are exposed in all of these cases. It was for publicly exposed persons, politically exposed persons, most of the opposition or so-called apostates in government or ruling types in all cases. There were cameras everywhere as soon as the house searches started, immediately, virtually that hour or the following. Cases were extremely media-exposed. For example, in the case of our fellow Member, the public has received a very quick and strong feeling that Mr Magajna is dealing with pedophilia. No one denied it, no one. Even today, when we have black facts, facts, no one is able, from those who should be able to do so, public excuses — at least because the facts are on the table. Although I have to say in this case that I highly doubt that it was a professional mistake or a coincidence and that someone was mistaken. These circumstances speak out in favor of another thesis, which is very frightening. For look at what was happening! Mr Magajna here in this National Assembly announced publicly, despite the threat of supporting this referendum on the law on RTV or not voting in favour of the law. And they're threatening him to be careful that something happens to him. What happens about a week after that? 28. Ten. 2010 there is a house investigation with an order to investigate a house, computers, I don't know what else, and the order states that because of a file which was transferred to this IP address one and a half years earlier, on 17 February 2009, and on which picture of a girl wearing naked bras. Is this a crime if someone on the computer is looking at a picture of a girl wearing naked jeans? It didn't say it was a minor, but it's hard, probably, to know from the picture itself, from the photo itself. And what can we find out in this case? If this had to be investigated and investigated, it would not have taken a strong house search, it would have taken all these computers, all the modems, all the living things, gone and that's it. But not a year and a half after that, but then! Or when it started, it was June 2009 that there was an international investigation into this. And follow-up: when this is investigated, it is found that these images with this IP are not there on Mr Magajne's computers. And the sequel: then all these disks get lost on the police. I think that in this case we have had our colleague's extremely media-exposed colleague, and he will never completely wash this label, and on the other hand, now that we are talking about this case, of course, this is no longer interesting for anyone. The matter is over, because this is also understood, the media attraction is where something is ticklish, but not some dry report by a commission that finds something wrong, and Montenegro is leading it, which is so SDS. It's normal for him to find out something's wrong! I think there are too many simplistic claims, and that's not good. That's how I think it's about problems that are serious and also because of the profession itself. Even because of the people working in the police, in the prosecution and in the courts, such cases do not happen in the future. They do not happen, because in these cases it was not only the level of the police, in these cases it was the fact that certain orders were signed without any substantive examination of whether or not they were justified. I must say that on the committee we had a case of court orders when it came to the use of these covert investigative methods, it was a base station where all communications were to be reviewed throughout the area where they were in court order – so much about how, because they say to the police that they were being controlled by an investigative judge anyway, to check what was in there. In most cases: yes, but of course there are also cases which are not as rare where they are repeated in the order of even the same written errors as in the proposal. The same written errors in the order and in the justification. We had an example in an order: instead of a large island, a great stream. And what happened in this case? It was an order that was issued even beyond the provisions of the law, an order that did not allow mobile operators to provide such information. It doesn't allow it. The law doesn't allow it. Formally, operators would be obliged to implement it, not a control mechanism. There is something similar in these cases, which we are talking about in this 2010 report. And in the case of this order – by the way, this "continuation of Patria" is, of course, written in quotations, we all know what this is about. It's just that we can all wonder how it's possible for someone who's a painter to get 460,000 euros on their own account from Patria, who's making armors, and no one asks him why he got that money. Or to put him in some procedure to be searched. No, not that! For someone for whom there is nothing, however, the indictment states that an undetermined day in an undetermined place received expensive gifts in an undetermined manner from an unidentified person. In one of these orders in this case, Patria – by the way, the Commission has no insight into the contents of the proceedings, of course not – but in one of these provisions it was decided to take a look at the communication view practically four years ago. From 1. 1. 2004, I don't think anyone ever dreamed of these patriots back then. And we know that the law of that time has been laid down for two years, and now it's less, but the order has been issued, and it's still black on white. Again, the operator was the one who warned that it could not be executed. By the way, this data is on some kind of CD, 300,000 data, 300,000 communications. I don't know if this creep's ever gonna show up in any kind of hands again. So, politically exposed persons everywhere, everywhere on camera, the disproportionateity of the measures. From this statistics speak out: a remarkable increase in these measures, which were unnecessary in domestic investigations. Apparently, some have come to realize that this is a good pear, a moment to create public impressions of how effective repressive organs are. This is also a characteristic in these cases, an extremely, extremely fragmented basis. For example, in the case of the Mayor of Maribor, the proposals are based on some notes that are the result of the activities of secret associates, where these notes were writtenly attributed to what these people have said. And then we read in these proposals, where it's justified to do some illegal land transactions where private people sell them together and someone buys them for one, and they sell them for two to simplify – that's to say, twice the price. And a statement in this note: the mayor did not claim a preliminary benefit, which caused him to do so much and so many millions of euros in damage to the Municipality of Maribor. But it was a place where some housing was supposed to be built. We know the legislation in force, but he who wrote it obviously doesn't know it, and apparently not the judge who issued the investigative order or order for the house investigation because that number then also appeared as a violation of the city budget of the Municipality of Maribor. In this case, the city council cannot exercise the pre-emptive right, it cannot. The law states exactly: social housing, kindergartens, municipal infrastructure, schools and so on, if it wants to be in that area, if it does not have a plan, not at all. And the fact that they happen in municipal spatial plans for change of destination is probably not a crime, but it was written here as if it were a crime: there are changes in destination, so it's a crime. They're happening everywhere. Now we have a very complicated case in the coast, for example, when one group of people is trying to build a golf course on some land that is currently agricultural and another group wants to keep it as a farm. They shall endeavour to do so and shall make proposals in the process of amending the Spatial Plan for Change of Purpose in front of all of them. Is that why all these people are criminals? They're going to be doing housework on all of these, but what are they doing? Aren't they?Oh, my God! They're not. Finally, it is the competent minister who, on this basis, must weigh whether any interest is justified or not and weigh in the public interest. And here, in this particular case, it was criminalized that there had been a change of destination in some spatial plan and that the city council had failed to establish a preliminary entitlement where it could not even enforce it by law. In connection with this, we saw house investigations carried out by former Minister Pogačnik and everyone else. But what's interesting about these notes is what it says. Here in this note it says: a change of location plan is expected to be achieved by the mayor with confirmation in the city council. Even if someone opposes this project, the two-thirds majority project will be outlawed by the mayor. The only one who can jump in his back is Stojan Auer, but he won't do it. The LDS will not jump, Verlich, who has the function of a mayor, will not oppose the mayor, the SDS – too few, and so on. Conclusion: It is said that they will achieve a change in the destination of the land and thus make it possible to build the land in question. This is a political level of action so that there will be no mistake, I suppose, in every municipal council. This is not necessary in Ljubljana, of course. That's where Mr. Jankovic has 50+. For some, this 50+ is very controversial when it comes to Janša and others, but in the case of Ljubljana, where Mr Jankovic has 50+ in the city world, there is no issue. In this case, it is likely that it will agree with itself on what will be adopted with regard to the change in the destination of this land and what not. And, of course, such notes cannot be found here, but they are also unnecessary. We're not in 1965, we're in 2011. But if someone gave someone something in these cases, then it's another story, it just doesn't say it in here! Otherwise, it is normal for each congregation to take care of development as well. We all know that through the building of something new, something new, a new building, a municipal contribution is also paid, compensation is paid for the use of building land, and each congregation will strive to develop its space within reasonable limits, in accordance with spatial options. Something similar happened at the Municipality of Murska Sobota. Interestingly, six months before the elections this happened, in spring 2010, Mr Šihec was then a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, even then, and of course he probably had quite a few opponents, both of them and of different kinds. And there was a court order in Cyprus that determined the house investigation in the municipality of Murska Sobota, where documentation and records of electronic communications relating to the transfer of agricultural land to the Municipality of Murska Sobota for the purpose of building an air museum were kept. It has been expressly determined that this investigation is allowed to take place during the night between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. You know what the profession says? To do this in places where there are serious criminals, drugs, weapons and things like that, where things need to be carried out from A to Z, not in such cases. By the way, such an order was also issued in the case of our fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič Trimenite, which was issued during the same period, in connection with the same matter. According to the explanatory statement, "it follows from the written data that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition has already decided on these land and it is therefore likely that the documents from the Ministry have already been forwarded to the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota" and that the transfer of land in connection with the construction of the airport museum in the municipality of Murska Sobota, which is to be transferred by the Ministry of Agriculture to the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota. The land is owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. The Ministry of Agriculture is not the owner of land, not of agricultural land in that country at all, and it was again a procedure for the adoption of a municipal spatial plan in which individual buildings are placed. It was not a transaction, but a completely legitimate act of the competent persons in this connection. Of course, on the basis of what has been said, the media condemned all these persons, including Mr Stichec, who was not even mentioned in the order, by the way, as a suspect or an investigator. He wasn't even mentioned! But we read in the articles that day: detained Pogačnik, Jelinčič and company, corruption, criminal police on large-scale action due to the suspicion of economic crime and corruption held five people – among them also photographed by Mr Štichec. No one has apologized to Mr Šihc for the mistake he has made in misinformation, not to this day, not to this day. In my opinion, the professional approach in such a case is such that immediately, as soon as something like this happens, it is public: there is no such person among the suspects and the person you mentioned in these and these media. That wasn't there. Mr Šichec filed an action against the State for these actions and received it in the first instance. He proposed symbolic one euro of compensation and an apology. This has not been accepted by the State, so the first-degree judgment is now two thousand euros. But it's not about two thousand euros or one euro, it's about something else: the damage caused to these publicly exposed people in such cases cannot be measured in money and it can never be recovered again. In short, respected colleagues and colleagues, it will be difficult to convince me, in particular, of the types of Social Democrats, LDS and Zares. It will be difficult to convince me that this report is biased, that it does not come from actual data, that there are no problems in this area. It will be difficult to convince me that it is not true that in individual cases, all of which have been media-extremely exposed, for the direct purpose of discrediting political opponents and in some cases for their public lynching, in some cases an attempt to erase their names from the political scene on the basis of conduct that would be difficult to assess for such behaviours to require the use of specific methods and means or the use of these investigative methods, which have been used twice in recent years, i.e. media-exposed house investigations. In addition to the fact that these services have been used for entirely other purposes, such as those laid down by law and imposed by the legislation to these services, there is also additional damage that has occurred. I said earlier that in all these cases, there have been tremendous numbers of people working on these cases and that this time has gone and will never be back. Therefore, in those cases where it is necessary to act, there was no such action or conduct. The impact of all of this will ultimately be extremely painful, and the costs of all these actions will ultimately be borne by all citizens and citizens, all citizens and citizens who want an effective service from this country, both in the field of social, health, public administration and the prosecution and justice. These are their legitimate expectations and if there is a model somewhere in health care that knows how much it costs and that there is no unnecessary operation, just because someone gets a fee or makes a better impression. If there is a model in this area that can appreciate this work, then there must also be a model in the area of crime, crime detection and their successful prosecution. These models are not new, they are known by all countries, I believe that our country must also know them, and this model speaks of the need to be based on efficiency, not on how many processes are written on the basis of their own – as we have seen in some cases, that even in the series of these types of labels have been written, which have been done in some heads, or even false signs – but on the basis of the reasonableness of suspicion in individual cases, take into account professional competence and professionalism and take account the conclusion of these procedures. There is nothing to help us if the number of these activities has increased by a hundred percent in recent years or if, in the last 90 percent, the total is rejected. In the case of the report I mentioned earlier, the Anti-Money Laundering Office does not help us if the number of these alleged, alleged, launderings has increased from, I don't know, 10 million to 60 million, if we finally find that it will be seized: not even one million euros will be seized. I think it will be necessary here to change this way of action, the way in which these many procedures work, including with some other motives such as professional ones, to actually explore those actions and direct energy and specific methods and means where the greatest danger to society is. Of course, this cannot be expected in these two months, regardless of the fact that we are adopting the report at this meeting. I think that, however, it would be a mistake to reject the recommendations and conclusions proposed because they are going in this direction, which I am talking about now. And, of course, they're going to be dealing with a future power that we don't know what it's going to be or what it's going to be. However, I think it would in some way be a journey to slowly raise the level of professionalism in this area, on the one hand, and on the other hand to remove the long arm of politics from where there is nothing to look for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u60	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that this lengthy debate by the President of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services has led me even to the fact that there is no chance, no minimum reason, and no opportunity for these views, these conclusions and, in particular, the conclusions proposed by the National Assembly, to support me today. In fact, this was illustrative evidence and an example of how this Commission, which oversees intelligence and security services, particularly when it comes to security services, when we are talking about the criminal police, in particular the use of covert investigation measures, whether they are in accordance with the law, with orders, overstepping these powers and has intervened in the assessment, evaluation of procedures under way in forecasting procedures. Then I'm going to try to illustrate some of the things that are in positions and conclusions, and I'm going to try to prove it. In fact, look at what the president said earlier today, at the beginning, in his discussion, I literally wrote down and can be checked after the tape: "I am not sure that this is the case. I can't deny it or confirm it because there's too much information to hide." But we have a whole range of opinions, conclusions, and conclusions that are supposed to be supported by evidence, not just by saying - pointed, so there is evidence. This simply speaks of the fact that it is really itchy for a person, as it was said that after a while he would put his fingers to these services, whether it is intelligence or some security services within some other systems. Such an illustrative example is also a lie that was repeated 50 times today when the talk was about the Owl. We had a referendum on that archival material. Look, colleague Friday repeated today, repeated his 50th lie that he gave the documents, this archival, a degree of secrecy to the current director of the Owl. The ecclesiastical lie that was proved by the previous president in the National Paper Assembly in the summer of 2007! But today, as we discuss it today, he says this was done by this director, who performed his job one year later or two years later. Once again: there is little credibility and it is difficult to moralize those who have problems with their morality. Thus, in some ways, I would avoid moral teachings, or I would avoid what others should do, or how others should think about how we should act. I'll tell you what I think. I can be right. I can be wrong. Most people will decide who's right. And that I'm going on specifics, not five and six years ago, because one thing we've been listening to now, which I've been listening to for four and a half years, especially on these boards of ours that are closed to the public. We have before us the findings and the views of the Commission. I have also carefully read the report that was made, and under point 2, we have written: The area – this is likely to be the government and this coalition that was before and which is now – is entirely – the focus is on the whole – politically subordinated to the police and the Owl. Parliamentary oversight is disturbing and unnecessary for it. Listen, for such an assessment to be accepted in this temple by the legislative branch of power, there must be some arguments, some facts, some evidence! There may not be some of these criminal procedures where they can be done, I say nothing, mistakes, but this cannot be proof that it is completely politically subordinated. And then after the indents: look, what absurdity, what nonsense! I'm asking those who wrote this down: replacing the director of the Owl on the basis of lies and anonymity. Okay, anonymous, everyone there is what lies?Oh, my God! [[...]] That's to be proved! Or: The owl is becoming more and more like the former Udba. Who can write this down, who did this comparison? One who needs to know how the previous Ascension worked. I can't write it down that the current Owl works according to the rules of the Judgment. But the one who wrote that sentence must know how! In my opinion, he also specifically did these things if he hopes to write in this paper that today, in 2011, Owl works under the rules of the Udba, that is 21 years later and 20 years later. I would not have hoped to write such a judgment, even if the President were as vehement and as morally indisputable as he is at present. Or, again, under this same 2nd point, the indent: investigating the continuation of Patrie past the prosecution's direction and in a direction that would in no way clarify the suspicions of alleged KDs, concealing specific investigative measures before the parliamentary supervisory commission, even as instructed by the judge. Yeah, is that jurisdiction or is it? [[...]] As far as I was concerned, we did not do this at all! I don't know where this assessment came from, this judgment written down inside. This has to be explained again by the person who wrote these things down. If we move on. Point 5, which I mentioned in the introduction to the closed session. This is about the arms trade. This commission has not even spoken to A in this regard in the last two years. However, I know that someone is being tortured about the arms trade back because there is another commission and another law, which is in the parliamentary procedure – and I think it has been carried away and because they are working from other documents, the papers of these conclusions and conclusions, they have obviously mixed things up. However, this Commission did not discuss arms trade intelligence and security services in 2010 and 2011 and point 5 cannot be written down; unless it is, I don't know, 10, 15 years who wrote it down. That's how duality is shown here. To say now what my colleague Sayovic said earlier By refusing, when we proposed that eavesdropping services in Slovenia should play a little bit of a game if there are any indications, and because text has been on the web site for some time now that no one has denied – no one has denied it – to play with it when it comes to eavesdropping on the deceased Drnovšk and the deceased Dr. Bajuk. And what did the chairman of the commission write? That it's out of date. It's out of date! Look, under point 5, we're talking about old-fashioned things and we're not even dealing with it! Again: there is no reason why such findings and views could be made without this report, without these things that we have heard from some of them, as I will then mention that they have appeared on this committee, without which someone would write in a cabinet of a political party that has a narrow perception of what to discredit their political rivals or opponents. And what I said before in the closed session. In the last month and a half, it is with these — and once again, errors can be made in the investigation procedures carried out by the police along with the prosecution, the court and so on. But, look, this commission has fallen into a political confession when those who are suspected and are members of these investigations have confessed, and the President of the Commission, through a proposal of conclusions and opinions, has subjected themselves to all those who have participated in these investigations or those proceedings. That's not the commission's job. I will say again: the task of this commission is to determine whether the special investigation measures used by the police, Owl or other security services are in accordance with the law. There are orders for that, and so on. But why the order is written is not a matter for our supervisory commission. This is not a matter for the Commission to control intelligence and security services, because then we go into the area of living matter when things are going on, and here, I don't think our city is. Once again: someone obviously wants to be a super investigator, super supervisor, super inspector, super auditor, but finally, look, we come up with such views and conclusions that simply cannot be accepted. And I'm going to give a chronic reason why not. It has been said several times today, but I am afraid that if we accept these things, this is the basis for changing some of the things that are possible, not to say radical, but indeed to dismantle some of the services and submit some of the political options and some of the parties. We have barely prevented this from happening in 2007 and 2008, obviously we are going back in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u62	Only the proposer has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Well, I think that when we conclude, we need to answer some of the questions that have been raised. I do not know why Mr Kumer is so concerned about whether the Commission has acted legally or not. He was a member of this Commission and I can reassure him that we acted legally in accordance with the law and that these cases, which were also dealt with at this meeting of the Commission which ended on Friday, were dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation. In all these cases, there has been a stage in the application of specific investigation measures, and this is also our task. It is true, however, that the special group has not been given media attention in this mandate, as it did in the previous mandate. It also says something about how and how we acted. They weren't waiting for us on Owl and elsewhere when we were coming with an authorized group under Article 12 into control, cameras like some in the previous term. So I don't allow these allegations of politicization of this commission, of being abused for some client service, because it wasn't. And even in a number of cases, when we had to answer, we didn't pick up just because we wanted things to be investigated. And it's not about getting involved in any open procedures, but it's about exposing cases that are proven to be black on white, you have them here on the table, that they have been guided in contravention of the applicable legislation, contrary to the rules laid down by the rules of the service, and clearly with a view to political discrimination and the public lynching of politically exposed individuals. Obviously, for some in this room, action is not a problem, but it is a matter of deciding whether these actions are appropriate or not; which is the problem. Of course, this problem will be resolved relatively quickly; within a month or half, people will decide whether to give trust to those for whom it is important or to those for whom it is not important. On the part of Mr Yuri, a number of questions were raised in this public work. I must say that everything cannot be put into the report and the response to one part is found in the notes of the views of the specific group under Article 12. In that part of the question raised – it is confidential information and I cannot talk about them in public work, but of course they are available to all Members in the basements of the National Assembly. That is precisely why, Mr Juri, because the problem of human rights protection is a normal one, the findings are what they are. I must say, I regret that there will be no support from you — given what you have said. I think you'll be acting against yourself if you don't, but it's your sovereign decision. Of course, the Commission cannot in any case influence the law enforcement authorities, not the other institutions, but it can, of course, influence the fact that, in the future, from the experience we have seen in our work, these things do not happen again; of course, if those who currently have a majority in this national assembly and power in this country are aware of this. If there is not even enough power to support some relatively innocent conclusion and position, then it is very difficult to talk about how these things could be resolved in a systematic way and in the future prevent the possibility of abuse as we have witnessed in this mandate. Well, in the context of this implementation, I said that I could not confirm or deny or deny, and but my statement referred to an accurate concrete conclusion, namely the concealment of information by the Owl. And that's what he keeps in that part. Once again, certain things cannot be confirmed or denied, but they are not in these conclusions and are not in this report. Regarding the claim that the lie that the archival material of the former secret political police is a sign of confidentiality, that it was closed by the current director, I must correct you. It is true that, even before, such and different markings were given, but the key one that was attached by the current director of Sova, Mr Selan, was 5. Ten. 2010 That was the key! But it doesn't matter. Whether on his part or on the part of his predecessors, none of them had a legitimate right to do so. However, it is not possible to replace former directors because of such practices, but you could, but you have not, despite the fact that they have put themselves above the law in this work, and this has been confirmed several times — not least by the proper rejection of this amendment of the law. Now, many times these findings and views have been problematic. We wrote in the first paragraph that parliamentary control over the work of intelligence and security services is the current authority – of course, under the current authority we mean those who actually have power at present – does not accept as one of the mechanisms to prevent and detect irregularities and anomalies that may occur within controlled institutions, but rather as an unnecessary disruption. I explained in advance what we came up with in this conclusion. I personally and individual members of the Commission have been repeatedly publicly attacked and discredited in the function of acting on this committee because we have highlighted the problems that stand and hold, not because we would point out something that does not hold up or some imaginary conclusion. This conclusion is that you have rejected all the reports of this Commission so far, and you will also reject this today, even the one for 2008, which in essence occurred at the time of Dr Ganttar's former president. Second point. The authorities have completely politically subordinated the police and the Owl, and parliamentary oversight is disturbing and unnecessary for them. The best-exposed cases that attach to these findings and which have emerged in 2010 are – I have already said – this repeated attempt of my discreditation and of an individual member of the Commission. Then another case, which may not be problematic in itself, is problematic in the event that these exceptional powers are exercised in contravention of the purposes for which these powers are given by law. And I have previously shown in cases very clearly and unequivocally where the problem is if both the police and the judiciary, as well as the prosecution, are subordinated to one political party or even one person in recent times. In order to replace the whole structure of the police, it is likely that there is no need to lose words about it and that it was created within one of the political parties of the ruling coalition. That the rules of the game were changed while the call for the Director General of Police was under way, you probably do not need to be reminded of this, because you know this very well, and that a mechanism was put in place and law-abiding to select the Director-General of Police directly. And so on and so forth. In short, a system mechanism is in place that enables what we have seen in the 2010 report, in the absence of supervision. Then, under this 2nd point, it is pointed out that special investigation measures are not always used in accordance with their purpose, but in individual cases, unfortunately, they are increasingly abused and served as aid for the discreditation of individuals; and then there are the cases that I have mentioned a little while ago, our fellow Member of the Magajna, Mayor of Štyhc, former Minister of Agriculture, etc. On the other hand, in some cases where they could be used to investigate the suspicions of crime, these measures are not applied. I can list these cases for you, too. I think we have one major case here in the municipality of Ljubljana, where it was about changing the vast complexes of agricultural land; and at a time when the natural person could not have made this change, when the ownership of these land changed and became owners of the Jankovic family, the purpose changed. Then we have cases that say that several plasmas of some financial institutions in this country have been strange, and we have not observed that these specific measures would be used to investigate these particularly exposed cases, etc. The following case is highlighted is the investigation, and in the narration – explained in the report why in the narration – the "continuation of Patria" past the prosecution's direction and in a direction that would in no way clarify suspicions of alleged crimes of concealing specific investigative measures from the parliamentary supervisory board; even as instructed by the judge. And here's the answer to Mr. Kumr. As part of one of these reviews, the High Representative of the Police - and this is also in this note - said that when the order was issued, there was also a recommendation by the judge that it should not be shown to the parliamentary supervisory committee, even if it were required. Order! The court order, which we supervise under the law, is in a written document that is in the archives of this commission. Then there was the early replacement, last summer, of the director of the Owl on the basis of a lie made out of anonymity. We remember well what it was: for a rather strange crowd, but still so strong that the result was the early replacement of Director Owl. Then there is the following indent: obstruction and prevention of parliamentary control. The director of Owl stood up to the law and to the supervisory institutions. The owl is becoming more and more like the former secret political police. I have also explained why; and this is the segment that I have specifically warned about in the undercover part of the session. Now I don't want to repeat these things here again, but this part seems to me the most problematic for the state of democracy in this country. Next, ignoring warnings of illegal conduct by top political representatives, this part refers to known stories about the closure of old archival materials, where there was no legitimate interest in this happening. As part of our control of these things, we have dealt with the Owl. The conclusion of this conclusion is that the direct effect of such conduct is the prevailing opinion in society, that there is no control over these services, and that it is being heard by everyone and everyone, that the control of individuals is increasing and enlightening. In addition, there is a lack of confidence in the envisaged legislative changes that will further extend the possibility of intrusion into the privacy of individuals by reviewing their telephone and other communications, even if they are not suspected. Such suggestions are symptomatic for – we know which country – the police state. These proposals are from a modern society, a modern state does not need them. I think that the mechanisms allowing effective detection of the crimes that we have in existing legislation are, but not in such a way as to collect 100,000 data that are operationally completely uninteresting and unnecessary in order to get one millionth of the problem out of them. The next conclusion is that the Commission is responsible for the supervision of intelligence and security services by parliamentary oversight of the work of the intelligence and security services, and therefore it is extremely important that it has conditions for smooth operation and that it must also have the support of the body it appoints, i.e. the National Assembly. Furthermore, the conclusion that this was not the case was that during this period there was a systematic rejection of everything that had been found without anyone explaining why it had been rejected. On the one hand, the task of our Commission, the fourth conclusion, is to ensure that the individual's rights are addressed as little as possible because of the functioning of the intelligence and security services and, on the other hand, the professional and professional functioning of these security services in the country. Through the findings and views of the Commission, the executive authority should ensure the best possible efficiency and, above all, the independent functioning of the intelligence and security services. The current relationship between the highest legislative body and the government is of the contrary; the ruling majority, with governmental arrogance, rejected both previous reports or their findings, thereby sending a clear signal of supervision to the services or their superiors. There is probably no doubt that this has happened, and there is probably no doubt about what such rejection in practice means. It means that the importance of this parliamentary control is perceived as extremely weak and weak, and it means the possibility of what we have seen in the last two years. The 5th point mentions this arms trade, based on the current practices that took place in 2011 in this regard, in particular as a reminder that this issue has been dealt with several times in previous mandates and the composition of this Commission and that these issues have also been brought to the attention of the State Assembly in previous compositions and closed the matter; and points out that in this regard there is a re-politicisation of a story that has already been the subject of consideration on this committee. Point 6 – The examples in the report show that ruling parties are deeply interfering with the functioning of certain supervised services and are unaware of the damage they have done to the services themselves in the long term. Seven findings. Over the years, controlled services have developed and professionalized. There is a very low likelihood that the powers they have under the law would be misused. Abuse is possible only with a long period of policy, which, in this mandate, has created a favourable regulatory environment with changes in the manner of recruitment and some other legislative changes to the possibility of misuse of certain supervised services for political purposes. If you want, I can point out again, in detail, some of these cases that I have highlighted before, I can point out another new one, which is also contained in this report. I have said that in all these cases it can also be based on the argument that there have been professional or accidental errors, but in these cases, as discussed in the report, it is very unlikely that this has actually occurred. All these observations and circumstances indicate that there was something else involved and that none of the competent — none, not the former Minister of the Interior, nor the Minister of Justice, nor the Director-General of the Police — on the one hand ordered internal control on the one hand, on the other hand — on the other hand, after what had happened and happened in these cases, expressed some public apology to all those affected by these proceedings, indicating that these are the circumstances we are talking about in these conclusions. Well, and then we have two more conclusions, 8th and 9th, where we are talking about a particular case, which I have already mentioned, and it was also a public media emergency, and 9th point, which speaks of a large part of the problems that arise in this area, also as a result of the amended legislation proposed by the Government to the National Assembly, but proposed to the Government by the Minister who covered the internal affairs area, the LDS. And that's true, because the government didn't fly out of the sky. This amendment to the legislation, we well know that it has been proposed by the LDS. For example, in the part I mentioned earlier, the proposed amendment was even during the procedure when the call for the appointment of the Director-General of Police was already under way, and apparently none of the applicants were in line, although I think that 7 or 9 were registered, but those who were then elected probably did not fully comply with the legal conditions at the time. So somehow I imagine that this legislation has changed because of that. This is not the only case; the truth of the love that has taken place in this mandate, we have had cases where individual directors in state institutions or companies have changed and re-named after the previous amendment of the legislation in such a way that those who have been selected in advance can also meet the conditions. No, and on the basis of all this, the Commission proposed four decisions to the National Assembly for the supervision of intelligence and security services under Article 34 of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The first is that the National Assembly supports the activities of the Commission; the second is concerned about the individual cases listed in the report, which raises reasonable doubts about the independence and expertise of certain supervised services; the third is expressing concern about the limitation or prevention of parliamentary control in individual cases and the fourth is intended to ensure the future composition of this Parliament and the Government, that the National Assembly expects supervised institutions, in particular the ministries and the Government, to see parliamentary oversight of the work of the intelligence and security services as a contribution to ensuring the independence and expertise of the work of the supervised services and as a contribution to preventing their politicisation or preventing their abuse. I have explained in detail the specific cases where the problems are. I have also pointed out in detail on individual cases that everything that is recorded in the report and in the conclusions, opinions and conclusions, is of the opinion that it is a serious problem, that we are unfortunately at the end of the mandate and that this problem cannot be resolved in the current Parliament. However, I think that in the future there is a need to provide greater opportunities for professional work for these services, as little as possible political influence in their professional activities and, on the other hand, to strengthen not only parliamentary and other independent controls over the functioning of these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u64	I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, Mr. Anderlich, I didn't see him. And please, if you don't answer when you don't have a word. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Three things I'd like to point out is that we don't stay inconsequential. I'll repeat: with regard to the closure and the secrecy markings on the archives. On the basis of an order adopted by the previous government in 2007, the former Director should do so on the basis of a regulation and this Director has only prolonged these matters and nothing else. The rest was as it was done in 2007, and no one was sticking anything new up. Another time. When it comes to universal listening to everyone and the average that this tension is thinking or the thesis in public — yes. But here you don't primarily think about state institutions that deal with it, here you also think about para-nationals, some who deal with it. And twice in this term, I was a co-signatory to get rid of these matters, and this commission refused to do what was in the commission's domain. Parastats involved in wiretaps. You could get confirmation on national television that this is not difficult, that it can be done for small money and for large money, depending on how much money you have in your wallet. And third, with regard to weapons. No one has requested that we discuss this at the Commission's 2010-2011 term of office. That is why we have not debated, and therefore I also say that it is pointless that some things that may be under consideration elsewhere, we write into our views and conclusions that we have not come to because we have simply not discussed it. And in the end. Yes, many of the findings and observations are possible and are the subject of some other working bodies in the National Assembly, not our commission. And I repeat this once again, maybe the Internal Policy Committee, maybe the Petitions Commission, but I don't know who else; but the powers of our Commission to control intelligence and security services are under control whether the use of covert investigation measures is in accordance with the law. That this is the subject of orders etc., etc. However, the content is not the subject of our debate, at least in the procedures when the forecasting procedures are under way. And I'm gonna end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u66	Here you are, Mr. Chernač, you still have time as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I think it is appropriate for me to answer Mr Kumru to what he has pointed out again. With regard to these archives, I think it is irrelevant that we distribute and discuss this. The documents are, exist and are also public and we know when this rate was attached and on what basis the access was prevented. On the one hand, Mr Kumer is clear that we have been doing something in one part that is not our jurisdiction, and on the other hand he wants us to do what is really not our jurisdiction. However, last year, when the request came from their side, not by the Social Democrats, but by Zares, we also addressed this issue in connection with the SAZAS case concerning this alleged illegal tracing and wiretapping. And I told the secret work earlier where the findings were in the report, so we've been dealing with these things. Mr Kumer knows, however, that he is a long-standing member of this Commission, that, of course, this is not the responsibility of this Commission. Nevertheless, I received from the police, this is their jurisdiction, the answer to these questions, which had been raised a long time ago – I think that on 28 September in Odessa by an information officer – about a base station that is supposed to be located somewhere in the Ljubljana area and so on. Here's the police's answer, and it says it's not. That's how I talked about that area that's our job. Which is our job! I was talking about legal interventions in communications privacy, which are also, of course, legally protected. And it is not possible to use them for long and long periods, in these specific cases which I have pointed out – let us say, the most terrible, scandalous case is the case of the mayor of the city, Mr Šihec, when in fact he did not talk to anyone about these things at all, but the two others referred to him as the basis for the house investigation, not against him, but against the Municipality of Murska Sobota, and in the media he was exposed as one of the suspects. And not until then, not until today, none of the authorities denied it and denied it. The damage caused to him is indelible, and there has been a great deal of damage in the last period. I do not think that this is good for the way it works, for the political space and for democracy. However, I estimate that all of you are obviously unaware of the seriousness of these issues and that these cases and these procedures cannot be used for some media attention and impression making, if there are cameras involved, how effective certain services are. Efficiency is shown elsewhere, as well as professionalism is shown elsewhere, and in this area these findings have been made, and these views need to be strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u68	I'm closing the debate. No amendments were tabled on the proposal for views and conclusions. The National Assembly will vote on the proposal for opinions and decisions submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services on Tuesday, 18. Ten. 2011, or Wednesday, 19. Ten. 2011, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the summer report of the Ombudsman of the People's Rights of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. The annual report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman. I give the text to the Ombudsman Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik for further explanation of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u69	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I thank you for the opportunity to present the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. I am sure that today's debate will at least partially highlight the human rights situation in our country and the recommendations of the new government will point to the most serious violations that will need to be addressed as soon as possible and will not wait for so-called systemic solutions. Allow me first to give a brief overview of the cooperation between the Ombudsman and the current reference to the National Assembly. I find that this cooperation has been correct for most of the time, and we have resolved possible uncertainties across the board. Both myself and my deputies, who are here with me today, have also attended and participated actively in meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament have also addressed the Ombudsman directly with questions or initiatives, but such initiatives have been limited, which I consider to be a poor opportunity. On the basis of the Ombudsman's report, the National Assembly shall adopt recommendations to be taken into account by both the State authorities and the local authorities. Although the Government is preparing response reports, it is not enough to assess what recommendations have been taken into account and what are the reasons why some have not been taken into account. Although government response reports have been better prepared each year, the latter in many ways are flawed, inaccurate or even misleading. There is no government response to many parts of the Ombudsman's report. I'll tell you more about these cases later. I therefore stress that it would be necessary to analyse how state authorities and local authorities respond to the Ombudsman's findings and recommendations. Through such an analysis, we could prepare an assessment of the situation in the field of human rights while also assessing the Ombudsman's functioning as an institution. We have prepared a proposal or model for how such an analysis could be done and we need additional resources or expertise to carry out it alone. I hope that the National Assembly will support our efforts and thus enable all interested parties to effectively review the Ombudsman's work since its establishment. Every year we find again that the Ombudsman's view of human rights differs from that of the government. The Ombudsman works on the basis of individual initiatives with very specific data, and the Government operates on the basis of indicators that are, at least, internationally comparable. In the 2010 report, I am particularly concerned with the issue of supervision and legislative activities. In doing so, I note that the issue of human rights in Slovenia is becoming increasingly the issue of control. The supervision does not work, works poorly or is not effective, and the Council of Inspections of the Republic of Slovenia has also declared its inability to do so, to which we have referred in certain matters. There are rare examples of institutions exercising their control on a regular, effective basis and to a sufficiently large extent. However, due to inefficient control, changes in values are also observed. In the past, actions that have received at least moral convictions are becoming increasingly desirable or advantageous, such as the exploitation of workers in different ways, including with the assistance of the State. In monitoring the legislative activities of the Government and the National Assembly, the impression was repeatedly raised that the Government was not prepared to undertake certain necessary laws or legislative changes. Confirmation of this problem is the non-admission of the Long-Term Care and Long-Term Insurance Act. Shifting problems to a time when laws will change fully or the system as a whole is an excuse that is moving too far into the future to better protect human rights. Regardless of the political option in power, the Ombudsman is faithfully following the promises of ministers and we are truly happy with the promises made. But in the nature of the guardian’s work, we regularly and loudly warn about unfulfilled promises. Although the Government is currently engaged in only ongoing business, we note, however, that there is inadequate and ineffective cooperation between the ministries. We have also found that the transfer of responsibility between ministries with a more or less disguised purpose is not to solve a particular problem. The lack of coordination between ministries makes it difficult or even hinders the effective resolution of the problem, which is obvious, for example, the remediation of pollution in the Strait or the care of children with severe behavioural disorders. However, local authorities have often acted primarily in the direction of demonstrating their indiscretion in a particular matter, not in order to solve the problem of the parties in a substantive way. However, there is also a lack of coherence between individual parts of the public sector, particularly between municipalities on the one hand and the ministries on the other. Thus, the congregations complain that they are late in the ministries with answers to their roles and that the ministries claim that they are not performing their duties. The Ombudsman also considers that the insufficient number of public officials to carry out certain tasks cannot be an excuse for the poor and ineffective work of inspections. It will be necessary to improve legislation and strengthen the operation of the inspection service as a whole, for example by redistributing interested public servants. However, at least the Ombudsman does not normally explain what the leaders have done to improve the organisation. It is unclear whether there are performance criteria in the public sector or whether there are any standards. How else can we talk about a low number of employees if these standards are not available? The disrespect for citizens and other users is also reflected in the delays in responses. We too have been waiting for them for more than a year, and the Ombudsman is also late in producing the final opinion. I am exposing more than four hundred outstanding deposits in the field of water land, some of which have been waiting for more than ten years. As long as I am allowed time, I would like to explain the differences between the Ombudsman's findings and the government's response report. We've discovered a number of these errors. What worries me, however, is those comments that misrepresent inaccuracies on the part of the guardian. I am even more concerned about those responses that are cynical toward the guardian, which confirm the responsibilities of the guardian. You won't believe it. Some of the Ombudsman's responses are underestimating not to say rude and insulting. I would like to point out that such a way of responding to the Ombudsman is a reflection of the one who prepares such answers, as well as of the mirror or certificate for the bosses who sign such replies. I would like to say that, in the future, there are fewer and fewer uncoordinated answers and that even after this debate at today's government meeting this voice about what human rights are, how to enforce them, how to prevent their failure to come between people. Let's not forget, today is the world's day to fight poverty. The Ombudsman began to draw attention to the problems of poverty in 2007. We have also prepared a special consultation on this topic in 2008. If we were to be heard then and later, poverty problems might be reduced today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle to present the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. The Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities shall be held at the 23rd meeting of 7. Ten. 2011 dealt with the Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2010 submitted for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The representative of the proposer, Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman, presented to the report a supplementary explanation highlighting in particular the inefficiencies of supervisory institutions and certain shortcomings in the field of legislation and the remaining issue addressed by the report. The Ombudsman also responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. Followed by additional presentations by the president of the Committee on Environment and Space, the president of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, followed by a presentation by the representative of the Council of State or the Commission on State Arrangement, who presented the Commission's written opinion, in which he pointed out that the Commission supported the Ombudsman's warnings and proposals to improve the functioning of inspection services. The Commission also proposes that the competent authorities assess the implementation of the inspection law in order to strengthen mutual cooperation within inspection services and in terms of response, cooperation and action. The representative of the Government presented the written information and the opinion of the Government, which shows that the Government is aware of the reality of the issue raised by the Ombudsman, as well as its responsibilities in this regard, and a number of measures have been taken. The government has thus continued its efforts in 2010 and this year to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis and the increase in unemployment. In the context of the introductory presentations, some representatives of the other invited representatives also forwarded their views to the report. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee welcomed the good and comprehensive report and found that in some areas the situation has improved, but that many recommendations from previous years have still been repeated. An integral part of this report is also a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as a working body and addressed today by the National Assembly. The recommendation is as follows: The National Assembly recommends to all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Government addressed the Ombudsman's 2010 Annual Report and, at the same time as its opinion on this report, gave an overview of the Government's action related to the 2009 report, in particular the part of the report relating to the recommendations of the National Assembly. That is why I would also give my introduction somehow in two parts, first of all touching on the measures taken by the Government last year and this year, and referring to the 2009 findings. One of the key recommendations of the National Assembly relates to the area of discrimination and, in the context of discrimination, mainly to the relations of the State of Slovenia with the questions of the national communities of members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia. In this area, a declaration was adopted this year in the National Assembly and, on the basis of this declaration, the Government has set up a Council for the National Communities of the Peoples of the former Yugoslavia to examine all issues related to equal treatment of members and to propose further solutions in the form of laws or in the form of the implementation of individual legal solutions. Another important area concerns the area of restrictions on personal freedom. In this area, the Ombudsman raised in particular three key issues in the 2009 report. One is the appropriateness of the staffing situation in prisons. In this part, the Government has followed an improvement in the situation and, despite the fact that, in the last two or three years, it has implemented a very intensive restrictive employment policy, this was one of the areas where we have not followed this restriction and the Government has tried to significantly improve the staffing situation, and in fact, by comparing the number of employees in prisons this year compared to 2009, the situation has improved considerably both in the field of guards and in the field of other professional staff. The second question referred to accommodations. In this area, too, we have significantly improved the standards of accommodation in prisons, in particular by opening up new departments within the largest prison in the Age. The third aspect was the social and labour rehabilitation of prisoners, where the situation improved significantly in 2010, with as many as 65% of all convicts being included in work programmes, which means a significant improvement compared to the previous years. At the same time, a department or unit for forensic psychiatry in the psychiatric department was also established within the Maribor Clinic Centre, which contributes significantly to improving the psychosocial care of convicts. The third issue raised in the 2009 report is the protection of children's rights. The issue of proper regulation of certain media content, which is not suitable for children's mental and physical development, was raised above all. The government has tried to resolve this issue in the media law, which, unfortunately, was deemed inappropriate in the National Assembly for further consideration and has thus concluded the procedure, and thus, of course, the only solution to the problem in this area. However, it has been slightly more successful in addressing issues related to children's special needs. The new law adopted in the National Assembly also addresses this issue in a more successful way. In the second part, the Government gives an opinion on the 2010 report, and perhaps first, it would point out what the Ombudsman has also pointed out in her introduction as the most problematic, namely the supervision of the performance of administrative tasks and the general supervisory functions of the State. The government agrees that it is not the most successful in its supervisory function. It also agrees that a reference to a large enough number of inspectors in particular in a particular area cannot be justified that such control is not carried out in an appropriate manner. The Government has tried to address this issue through three areas of action, first of all ensuring that more inspectors are made available in specific areas, where, for example, last year and this year, the number of inspectors employed increased by 39 in all those areas that were most deficient. Through the inspection board, which operates both at national and regional level, it seeks to improve the coordination of supervisory institutions, in particular inspectorates, and is more or less successful in doing so. And one more thing. We believe that we are responding to legislative corrections, but unfortunately we may be too slow, but sometimes we are not able to penetrate the legislative process with these amendments. Thus, for example, two important laws that could have resolved this supervisory function in particular in the field of labour law have been suspended. It's a small work law and a law on the prevention of black work. However, it has been introduced in this area, I think, a significant improvement, which is the view of all employees on the payment of contributions and the notification of the employer on the payment of social security contributions to all employees. Another issue where there are still a few words, the report and the government's response report are very extensive, so I will not go into detail, the Ombudsman's observation that the social state is not working satisfactorily, that poverty is exacerbated and that there is a need for greater response and action on this segment. We believe that in the last three years, especially during the crisis, the Government has done everything possible to improve this area or to avoid an excessive deterioration of the social state. At times, the government is even aware that it has given too much attention to this area. There is certainly still a lot of work to be done and we expect this to continue with the coming mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that again. Respected Ombudsman Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, representatives of the Government, MPs and Members! We have before us the 16th annual report of the Ombudsman, which this time relates to 2010. Before I go to a more concrete content, allow me to point out that, as with the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, when we have considered this report as a parent working body, I think this year's report is best prepared by now, and especially in all these recent years, there has been a great leap in quality since the report was prepared by Mr Matjaž Hanžek. Undoubtedly, it is a large-scale material, which is a year-to-year thing, which on the one hand shows that the Ombudsman's institution is well-known, however, that people turn to the Ombudsman, that there is enough weight between people, of course, sometimes we get a comment with regard to the Ombudsman's work on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, but I must say that we are exemplaryly or well-cooperating with the Ombudsman. We have also recently had a meeting where we have agreed to deal with certain issues that could come up for consideration probably after the elections. On the other hand, as I have already said, this thickness of this year's report by the Ombudsman may also indicate that problems are increasing year after year, that people are undoubtedly in increasingly severe distress, especially social ones, especially today, when the country is in a difficult financial and economic crisis, and undoubtedly also in a crisis of values. The annual report of the Ombudsman therefore presents an important human rights document, on respect for human rights, on protection of human rights, on what could be done better, accurately describes the problems faced by individuals who feel they have been violated by human rights and face the fact that the institutions of the State do not listen to them as they wish. The problem is that certain institutions do not do their job well enough, and we also face petitions and human rights and equal opportunities. Many times, after a few hours, we get certain answers. The non-response of certain authorities is certainly worrying. If I only mention that the most difficult problem is the slow response of inspection services, which is from year to year, and especially in this year's report, the Ombudsman also points out. The report also proposes certain solutions that the Government will then consider each year, of course also to the National Assembly, but also this year the Ombudsman warns that many times with their warnings come across deaf ears and that some of their recommendations are repeated year after year. At least in part, the Ombudsman's report tells us how patient society we are, how much patience we put on the respect for and protection of human rights, and what relationship we have with the weakest, the vulnerable groups, that is, those groups for which the Ombudsman, at the beginning of her mandate, has said that she will give them her most attention. I must say that all the way to today is to see progress in realizing that there are not only marginal groups in this country with which, for the most part, the predecessor has been involved in this function. The fact is that the Ombudsman must be aware that he is the Ombudsman of the rights of all citizens and not just individual groups. In Slovenia, there are undoubtedly many people who have been violated by human rights who are in severe distress and need help that has been warning of injustices for years, such as I2 victims. World War II or people who have been violated for years by the constitutional right to a healthy living environment, such as the people of Zasavje and, of course, Lafarge Cement. At the previous hearing of the Ombudsman's report, I drew attention to what was going on in Zasavje. People came to Ljubljana before the government. Mr. Borut Pahor then promised them many things, as did many others, and then virtually nothing happened in this area. These individuals and groups I have just mentioned usually do not have non-governmental organisations, such as those deleted, which we are always dealing with in the Ombudsman's report to help them exercise their rights. It is also true that people's social problems have increased significantly, and this is not unusual, given the problems the country is in at this point. We are no longer just in difficult economic and financial times, and we are not only in a clear crisis of values, but we are facing recent times, especially in the last year, also with a marked political crisis that has led not least to early elections. It is now up to all of us to choose who to trust in the leadership of the country in these times of crisis. For the situation requires us to obtain such a government and, above all, a Prime Minister who will be able to cut off from established practices, such as corruption and clientism – the Ombudsman also says something about it – who will be able to establish a just state in which those who conceal taxes, who cannot explain the origin of their assets, who have fictitious societies and postal collectors, such as Cyprus or Liechtenstein, will also receive appropriate punishment for their fraud and mixing. We therefore need such a Prime Minister or thus a power that could restore confidence in the rule of law and its institutions. The Ombudsman therefore asks two fundamental questions: whether we are still a rule of law and another question of whether we are still a social state, as is the case with last year's report. I would add that, above all, it is necessary to ask ourselves whether we are still a just country. So that country in which everyone should have the same rights, regardless of the status or situation in society, regardless of personal circumstances, regardless of religious and racial affiliation and regardless of gender or material status. We need to ask ourselves whether our country, which is truly enshrined in the Constitution, is both social and legal, is actually fulfilling the requirement of fundamental justice, which is the first prerequisite for the legal and functional state to function as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Only a just country where there will be no division into first and second-class citizens, where there will be no division on the one hand and on the other, can restore people's confidence in its institutions. Of course, this will be extremely difficult to achieve if we support or tolerate people who do not see corruption as such or even act corruptly themselves, and because they are primarily part of the strong lobby, nothing happens to them. A policy that protects such individuals and even shows some of them as saviors of the Slovenian nation, and in developed democracies could never and never succeed, would undoubtedly be crushed in the Cali. Unfortunately, we do not see such individuals as great heroes. It will be difficult to achieve a just state if we support individuals who are playing the country in the highest positions in the country, even though the first are called to respect it. Or, as columnist Mr. Marko Crnkovic said in the last Saturday annex of Del, I quote, "How can one become a father of the people, but can not even raise his two sons?" End of quote. Otherwise, I think it is difficult to judge and judge such matters, but here, in the first place, it is not a question of morality, no one is a saint, everyone is carrying its burden, we are not talking about personal human mistakes that we are undoubtedly making in life, which we are probably also regretting, but we are talking about how difficult it is to rule the people, a man who expects of this same people to respect the laws and institutions of the country in a consistent way, such as the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and who has himself in the narrowest, even family, circle of such rules of the rule of law that are being revived. As long as people have a feeling and actually face the fact that the country is not the same for everyone and is unfair, it will be difficult to regain people's confidence in it and in its institutions. I myself, like the Ombudsman in this last report, find that in the last three years we have a legal and social state really only at the declaration level, while the actual situation does not reflect it. In Slovenia, unfortunately, because of excessive political networking, due to the establishment of various elites, especially strong lobbyists, two groups of citizens have formed in the last three years: the group that robs all of us of state property and thus fills up its bank accounts also through various tax havens and postal collectors, and the group that pays taxes fairly to the state and fights with mills in the wind, sometimes for purely basic things, such as the simple requirement of prompt treatment or trial at least within a reasonable period of time. The classic case of the abuse of justice, we can say that now, is undoubtedly the case of Baricevic. On the one hand, proceedings took place in court extremely, extremely quickly, overnight, mainly because of strong political, friendly and legal ties, while in the case of justice in court, the one who was attacked by these dangerous dogs was stalled, stalled and misinterpreted, and to this day Mr. Meglič has not received fair compensation for the act that left him certain consequences for his life. This is certainly not a just country. I also wonder whether it may be a just state that, despite the work done, workers are not being paid. I wonder if it is the right state to exploit these workers in all possible ways. I wonder if the right state is that workers are not provided with adequate working and living conditions, and I am thinking, above all, of workers coming from foreign countries. Is it the right state that they do not have social protection rights, for example in case of accidents at work? Is it really a just state? I'm sure you don't. The fact is, both in the case of our workers and foreign workers, the country of justice has thus completely cancelled. The Commission has also dealt with violations of the rights of workers and their exploitation by employers on several occasions for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. It is unacceptable that the government cannot protect workers, at least not sufficiently, but allows individuals to tie yachts to piers on their couches, drive in expensive cars and fill bank accounts despite the crisis. Let me just mention the situation in Gradis and the situation in the Constructor and all the former construction giants and the failed companies of the Vipav Valley, from which I come and where we once had extremely successful companies – the real parade horses of the economy. Today, however, they either fail or pass into the hands of foreign owners, which would not have been wrong if these foreign owners had taken into account the circumstances in which a company is located, especially taking into account people who have made common progress within the company for years. As has already been said, the Vipava Valley is no exception to business failure. Most of them are in the wood and textile industry. A while ago, I had a call from Ajdovska Textika, perhaps also from the Ombudsman, and I think that the owners put them on the road during the night, even though they left most of their lives right for the machines of this disabled company. And there are more and more of these stories. I can't even get past the construction in the media of such a singing stadium in Stožice. No one objected to the stadium being built and upgraded, certainly, where important sporting, cultural and other events take place. However, there has also been, I might say, a mockery of human life. The goalkeeper of the Slovenian football team, Mr Samir Handanovic, said, among other things, quote: "It is nice that we have a stadium, but it would be even better if the workers got paid for their work." Yes, even in a way that transforms people, we can say, into some modern - day slaves, you can build yourself a monument. Who knows, he knows. Even so, it promotes human life and the dignity of an individual. For some, the worker is just a number to achieve his own goals. I can't even get past the situation in Koroška, where, due to the bankruptcy of Prevent, a thousand people have lost their jobs. Even in the middle of the night, even though most of their lives were working in this company. And today they are in difficult situations, some of them do not even have a basic survival. Many of the actions have been, thank God, done in this area, and people are actually proving that the Slovenians are overcoming this solitude, which in difficult times can at least help a little. Unemployment thus pushes them into a state of poverty that is greatly increasing. It is today, as the Ombudsman said in the introduction, the day of the fight against poverty. In a non-governmental organisation, Slovenian philanthropy warns that NGOs cannot resolve the system without serious systemic changes in poverty. They also add that there is a need to open up ways to ensure quality jobs. Only then will it be possible to deal with an ever-increasing poverty, which, according to statistics, is the greatest increase in socially disadvantaged groups. This means among the unemployed, among the workers in non-intensive households, among the persons, in particular women aged 65 and living alone, and among the persons in households of two adults with at least three dependent children. There is also a very risky group of young people who are almost 70% employed in so-called chaotic jobs, which are poorly paid and uncertain, and therefore, because of poor conditions, it is difficult to create families with which young people cannot delay indefinitely. Let me also illustrate that due to poverty, the Red Cross helped 149 thousand 548 people, Slovenska Karitas 157 thousand people in 2010 with food. Together, this means that both humanitarian organisations helped to survive as much as 15% of the population in Slovenia. This is the case for 2010. Even higher percentages are forecast in 2011. The Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, in the report, also gives some attention to the media. As it does every year, it reiterates sensational reporting where unacceptable practices of media abuse of children and minors occur. The Ombudsman in the report reiterates that the media have over and over again given the advantage of sensationalism, which, in turn, increases the burden on them, but unfortunately destroys the lives of children and adolescents in particular by revealing their identity and privacy in the face of family tragedies. However, we have developed political-media sensationalism, which is based in particular on political affairs, media abuse for the purposes of discrediting political rivals, as well as, which is a constant, for the unobjective reporting of certain media outlets that openly cheer for a specific political option. All too often it is a matter of creating a certain opinion and not reporting. Also polls published by some media either before the elections or before the referendums, we have had a lot of them recently, suggest that in Slovenia, mainly through surveys, there is a desire to generate a public opinion and that it is significantly less measured. This also shows the results when we talked about referendum issues when polls showed that the result was "for" and "against" very close, and in the end we found out what the results were. Clearly, this is more about public opinion than measuring public opinion. It is also worth noting that the American ambassador to Slovenia recently said that in Slovenia there is a lack of journalistic professionalism and that there is little objective view of things and that the media are mostly biased in favour of the left. I also wonder whether the rule of law makes it possible for individuals to trade land, which they purchase first at extremely favourable prices, and then to increase their value in a way that makes them vulnerable overnight. Let us just remember how the land of Electa suddenly became wally and thus greatly increased its price on the market. It probably does not need to be further explained that Elekta is, of course, simply a random enterprise of the sons of Zoran Jankovic, which is also the mayor of Ljubljana, who, among other things, accidentally also decides to change the destination of land. However, these and similar practices have damaged thousands of citizens, and all these practices are an expression of the arrogance and greed of the financial moguls who have come to our aid through the plundering of state property, and today some of them are considered to be the most successful managers in Slovenia. And it is against such Februarys that they are rightly demonstrated primarily by young people, including in Slovenia, who are victims of this cruel greed, which has also been well absorbed in Slovenian social space. When we are talking about a just country that should be part of this legal and social state, we cannot, even though it has been planned for a while in the public eye, that we are all alike in politics, and that is because of the simple fact that the ruling policy, with its way of ruling over these three years, has completely disappointed citizens and citizens and has led the country even to the point where we are rapidly approaching the Greek scenario, of course the mistakes of this government must be relativised and therefore the whole policy should be labeled as bad, dirty and unfair. It is generally said that all of us in politics are equally unfair, equally corrupt, equally deceived by networks and lobbying. Such manipulations, that we are all alike, are also triggered in order to undermine the trust of people in customers. All new political movements are also a product of this same manipulation. It is clear that, as in other professions, we are not all alike in politics. Like not all of us, for example, Jureti Jankovici, who can spend more than the annual salary of the ordinary Slovenian in one day. We are also encouraged to be corrupt in politics. I don't know, it seems to me that it won't fully hold, but it is true, even if we look at the latest events that have taken place, that they have the biggest problems with corruption right on the left or more, which has proved most true in the case of the National Investigation Office and Mrs Katarina Kresal. The former Minister of the Interior had a fight against corruption as a priority, and eventually she had to resign from the post of Minister of the Interior for her very reason. I cannot go beyond the case of Mr Zoran Thaler or Mrs Simone Dimic. The first accepted the conditions of corruption and the second took advantage of its political power on the shoulders of the Vegrad worker. I also wonder whether the right state is a country where economic crime does not get epilogue in a court that is not persecuted. I mentioned last year's report by the Ombudsman that the findings of experts dealing with economic crime were quite alarming, alarming. They said that Slovenia fully covered the area of limiting and prosecuting economic crime. And as it seems, in one year, almost nothing has changed, things have gone worse. And interestingly, as the findings show, political interference is the biggest problem of inefficient dealing with economic crime. This indicates that a system must be put in place without delay so that law enforcement authorities know how to shield themselves from political pressures and start their work professionally and impartially. Unfortunately, however, the police have been under such a strong political influence over the past three years that it is no wonder that, despite spectacular actions, nothing happened directly in front of the television cameras that took place. The tycoons are still out there. The only epilogue we experienced was Mr Ivan Zidar's conviction, but, ironically, not with us, but in Germany. We usually do not have enough evidence for such things or delay them, so that in the end, as is usually the case in our courts when it comes to dedicated people, matters eventually get old. We're still haunted by just chicken thieves. Those slightly larger thieves who have stolen social property and thus each of us are free to move around Slovenia and nothing happens to them. Since they have probably done too many political services in the past, the time limit of justice will probably never reach them unless we finally adopt such a way of working in this country to demand a just state. Let us also look at the area of justice. If I have initially said that the report as a whole is very well prepared, I must say that in the chapter of Justice, I miss a picture of the prosecution of crimes in the field of economic crime. Well, I know it's probably not that much of a Ombudsman's job, but maybe it's not because he's almost not being persecuted, as I mentioned earlier. But this seems important to me because economic crime is the most serious human rights violation in us. If we are talking only about false bankruptcys, damage to creditors, business fraud, fraud in obtaining a loan or benefit, tax evasion, misinformation on the financial resources of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, money laundering, suspicious transactions that take place through various postal collectors and tax havens. All of these crimes have resulted in many human rights violations committed between employees by the direct or direct owners of the companies they have come up with in a suspicious, questionable way. And here I would expect the Ombudsman to react more fully and not only on the basis of an application or initiative in the face of such grave human rights violations, which are particularly manifest in the abuse of workers. We need to know that the Ombudsman has the possibility, in section 9 of the Human Rights Ombudsman Act, to initiate the procedure on his own initiative and not only by waiting for the applications and initiatives of the affected individuals. In the field of constitutional rights, the Ombudsman notes that the number of initiatives, according to the previous year, has increased, most in the field of electoral law, access to information of a public nature and the protection of personal data. There has also been an increase in initiatives on ethics, public speaking and freedom of conscience. It was in the area of freedom of conscience that the responses were mainly the alleged unequal treatment of individual religious communities. However, there were no initiatives that would point to the direct limitation of freedom of conscience or the possibility of confessing and defining faith. Every year, the Ombudsman also receives several initiatives that point to the express expressions of hate speech, hatred against individuals or groups. In 2010, the Ombudsman also addressed several initiatives concerning hostile inscriptions on church buildings. The Ombudsman therefore assesses that the effective work of the competent authorities or their rapid and consistent response is necessary to limit such phenomena. But, of course, we have faced an enemy speech at various levels, including the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, two meetings were convened on the subject of an enemy speech, once in a completely inappropriate statement by Mr Ivo Godnič concerning the Hudo Cave and the second in a series of inappropriate comparisons between Mr Grims's family and the Goebbels's family in Youth. The hate speech takes place at different levels, regardless of the political orientation from which it comes, it should be sanctioned. Let me also touch the subject of mobbing or bullying in the workplace. This is also one of them that appears again and again in the Ombudsman's report. We have also pointed out these forms of pressure at the Commission's meeting on several occasions by having joint meetings with the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The findings show that there is an increasing number of mobile phones in the workplace, which victims also increasingly recognize because they are aware that it is a crime that can even be punishable by deprivation of liberty for up to three years. I believe that more attention needs to be paid to these issues in the future, as the crisis is likely to increase inappropriate behaviour in jobs, which, of course, also affects human health and thus reduces productivity at work. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I have presented only a few topics which are presented through the Ombudsman's report on the state of human rights for 2010. The other topics will also be opened by my fellow Members in the debates. Let me add that we will support the Ombudsman's 2010 Annual Report with recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar will present the position of Mrs Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u77	Dear Guardian, Office and representatives and representatives of the Government! The annual report has an important clock that speaks of twelve months in 2010 and, on the other hand, it also shows exactly noon or five past twelve, which in some ways is a time that can be very conjunctural to deal with the annual report if anyone wants to. Therefore, it would be reasonable and proper to stick to and evaluate what the report is in fact, some kind of social supremacy or alter ego or talk about symptoms and how we operate is some kind of X-ray of the value system of our nation and sections of the national open spaces of freedom. That means how much we can do this freedom, how much we have it, how much we allow it, and how much we lock it down. Indeed, many would like the report to be cheaper each year — on the committees we spoke to — and to bring more good news. At the same time, however, it is important to point out that each year's face-to-face with the assessment of the situation undoubtedly increases sensitivity, sensitivity to rights, to diversity, to the right to be different and to all the irregularities that are happening to us, these irregularities are covered by concrete cases, which is very valuable and more comprehensible. In any case, this increase in sensitivity also results in a broader and more intensive report, which is, in some ways, logical, because this discussion sensitizes space, while also talking about the sensitivity to justice, responsibility and respect for another, different and excluded. While we find that sensitivity is increasing in this excellent report in some way, this is noted, and we can also agree that the fact that what is the price, what human rights are all about is not increasing. It also turned out to be within the various committees of the National Assembly when the report was considered to have been dealt with or dealt with by some of the double criteria and there was some kind of double morality of some Members and Members, because they were cramming the government and society, that some things had not been regulated as they should and called for them to do so already. But sadly or if I can use the term even hypocritically, it is that these same Members and Members of Parliament have called, their calls have referred to laws and to solutions that these same Members, Members of Parliament, with their backs usually at the referendum or within the legislative procedures after the current tape, have rejected, either that was, as I say, a pension law, a family code and so on, this has been discussed in these premises for almost 80 hours. In short, when considering the Ombudsman’s report, it is not uncommon for an innocent person to enter, a holiness that we quickly give up on or forget about the next day. Let me get to the details. The protection of children and minors also has a more visible place in the report this year. Here I must say that the proposed media law, which was already rejected by the Secretary-General in the National Assembly, has highlighted children's rights, protected them from exploitation for advertising purposes, also against inappropriate advertising of unhealthy food and drink, and that the law by supporting media literacy was right to awareness and to appeal for the rise of professional standards of self-regulation and the autonomy of journalists, presupposed the suppression of sensationalism, where children too often were victims, which the report made very clear with their finger. The ethics of public speech or the issue of hate speech are again and again in the report the city is exposed. The Ombudsman points out the unbearable ease of using hate speech, the tolerance for weight and the power of speech is not so much within the political discourse, we must acknowledge that, as well as in other places, there are too many impatient expressions that are increasingly leading on the Internet, as well as on the street and outside the political or media space. An impatient, sinister rumor, especially hidden for the anonymity of websites, has become so much the norm that I do not say normality. And so-called media self-regulation is important in this place, because we know that not everything is about punishment, sanctioning and fines. In this sense, small steps, such as the ethical agreement between some media outlets, are important when it comes to controlling websites when it comes to impatient and hateful performances, or the web eye has already become part of our understanding. I'm sorry. When we strengthened the strengthening of journalistic self-organizations, the concentration restriction, the introduction of public interest protection through the media world, a press script was born, and it was all over the water. After an impatient, often hateful and otherwise disrespectful debate on the family code, the Zares Group prepared draft recommendations on ethical conduct, the so-called ethical code in the National Assembly for Members and Members. Such recommendations are certainly necessary for the reputation of the National Assembly, even though adult healthy and educated people, the representatives of the nation, should not be necessary, in fact, but sometimes the way to maturity must be pressured by standards. Such an ethical code would clearly warn or limit the possibility of, say, a speech recently made in these rooms and I will quote: "...that some Members and Members should be placed in front of the first tree or in front of the wall – or dull, or dull..." We know that a machine gun and machine gun and dancing with him have already appeared on this door. Because it becomes normal once and for all if we do not respond, and it appears as a normal rumor of this political space of the highest temple of democracy. Without warning of the impatience of an impatient attitude toward others, hatred, contentiousness, unkindness, which is almost immeasurable in this nation, will only spread and become self-sustaining. The question whether we are still a social and legal country, which has been mentioned many times today, as well as in the debates, on the committees, and the report has many times opened, is to be asked what kind of social state to achieve it, whether the current solutions are satisfactory, appropriate or could be better, or can we achieve even better solutions, but when they are on the table, we block them again, the question is, time requires otherwise, each day reveals the cracks of the system, and so there are laws that want to establish new or different mechanisms. Some will adopt, I hope, at that meeting, the Health and Health Insurance Act, to which the report refers, or the Housing Credit Act, etc. Individual parties, including Really, we have put in quite a few solutions that we may not have understood yesterday as necessary, but today time requires them and the absence of integrated, systemic, falling, which are blocked, is an improvement. We agree that the report is prepared correctly and in depth, but what is important in this report and also in the previous report, because the guardian herself says that it is not so much his quality, but our response to it is unequivocal. That is how much we take him seriously, how much we correct his solutions, or the warnings he leads us to, and how much we bring others who are better. I would like to point out that in the next report there will certainly be one chapter, which is very important and which the Ombudsman has very cleverly resolved, it is a matter of accessibility to archival material, which must not be unlimited and I believe that this will be the subject of heated debates not only in the National Assembly but also elsewhere, because human rights can be violated. We'll support the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman, the Honourable, Minister and other representatives of the Government, respected, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party join the call or recommendation of the Commission of the National Council for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities for all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the reports of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2010. In particular, I would like to point out that we support the report on the protection of children's rights. We also support the recommendation on human resources strengthening inspection services or strengthening supervision. In its consideration of the report, it was also noted that there was a difference of attitude in the handling of the same cases. It is difficult to defend the reduction of employment in the public sector at the same time if the human resources strengthening of social work centres, inspections and nursing homes is supported. The Ombudsman was concerned about the lack of supervision, the inadequacy and longevity of the procedures in the field of operation, for example, the Medical Chambers, the Nekrep case, and the Lawyers' Chambers on the work of lawyers. The Ombudsman still points to court proceedings. It is true that the complaint is less and it is worrying that there are increasing complaints about the substantive work of the courts. In particular, it is a worrying fact, which is certainly also a reflection of the current crisis, that initiatives addressed to the Ombudsman have increased by about 15%, reflecting both the financial and, of course, the mental pressures of citizens. Much of the Ombudsman's warnings relate to the provision of at least the basic standards of the social state and, as one of the pressing problems, exposes the high level of so-called hidden poverty, which is increasingly difficult to conceal, particularly in the local environment. The number of individuals and families not recorded as at risk after any official statistics, but who urgently need help, is clearly increasing. The new cycle of the economic crisis, however, pushes the existing threshold of poverty even lower, as recent statistics have shown, as over 240 000 people are already below the poverty threshold. That is why we should further promote the functioning of local communities that know the situation and various civil initiatives, as humanitarian organisations are no longer able to solve all these problems. If ever, in the crisis, the country should set up a regulated and effective social policy, but unfortunately, we have before us the introduction of new social legislation, which both social work centres and municipalities ensure that it will not be able to live on January 1st, as envisaged, as the country is lagging behind in the preparation of the transitions to a new regime. However, I still have not received an answer to my question in this regard, and I hope that we will find an appropriate solution before the dissolution of Parliament. An incomplete transition to a new system of granting social assistance can lead to more injustices and inadequacies in the social field than the Ombudsman points out in the 2010 report. It is well known that in order to introduce the new social legislation that we Members of the SLS have opposed, as they take back those who have worked fairly their entire lives, the social work centres, which will take on many additional tasks, are not prepared and point out problems that will not be overcome by 1 January after their assessment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party express great concern at reading the report on a large number of cases of violations of labour law and workers' rights, which remain without income even after five or six months. If we do not examine the consequences before the introduction of the new social system, more and no less such cases may happen. A number of examples of the depletion of companies owned by Mura, the Vrhnika leather industry and so on, the leasing of property and some managers who have suffered loss of jobs and infringements of employees' rights could certainly have ended differently if the State or Government acted in a timely manner. In recent times, we have seen a number of outflows from the state budget that are incomparably higher than the amounts needed for the restructuring or financial recovery of these companies, but are justified for beneficiaries such as aid to Greece, recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and so on. We support the Ombudsman's efforts, his warning and proposals to improve the problem in the specific areas covered by the report, including to improve the functioning of inspection services. It would be necessary to assess the actual implementation and implementation of the Inspection Control Act and to strengthen the mutual cooperation of inspection services in order to improve response and cooperation in order to make monitoring and action more effective. The annual report of the Ombudsman for 2010 and the recommendation of the Commission will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Ombudsman with colleagues, ministers, secretary-general, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman's Institute is established to control the work of the State by drawing attention to the shortcomings of the rule of law and the functioning of the State authorities when the question of fundamental human rights was raised. We are aware that many changes take time and that they cannot be accepted and enforced overnight. It is necessary to draw on the analysis of the situation and to adopt measures that will effectively address all weaknesses and irregularities that deny the foundations of socialism, justice and respect for law. We already have a 16-year report from the Ombudsman. Thus, it is quickly understood from the report that in general things are going in a positive direction, but according to our assessment too slowly. In addition, some areas have been addressed on a permanent basis and the recommendations are repeated many times in relation to past years, which of course is not good. I wonder what that means. Is every time the authority is deaf to warnings or unable to respond effectively to at least the most pressing problems of our society? In fact, the Ombudsman has made it clear and clear that, in monitoring the legislative activities of the Government and the National Assembly, there are many times that the Government is not prepared to undertake certain necessary measures, laws or regulations, including strong motivation or opposition to one or other political options. It also noted that, on the other hand, there is a rapid or forceful legislation, which has not brought about effective coordination between coalition partners, not only with the opposition but also with trade unions, students and the public concerned. As it has been so far, this report has been very extensive and we have dealt with all the areas in the Group of Members, in this position it would be limited to those areas which are still of particular interest to us. First of all, I would touch on the issue of supervisory institutions. As found in the report, monitoring does not work, works poorly or is not effective. We have already warned in our parliamentary group, on various occasions, in particular as regards the work of the inspection bodies, particularly the Labour Inspectorate, which deals with particularly sensitive matters concerning respect for workers' rights, which are undoubtedly part of fundamental human rights. This area is with 84 inspectors for the supervision of 180 thousand 500 control bodies, i.e. employers, undoubtedly undernourished. The Ombudsman also reiterates in one of his recommendations that inspection services need to be strengthened and provided with adequate material conditions for work. At the same time, it calls on the Government not to reduce the number of public officials in the supervisory authorities in view of possible austerity measures. If I stay in the field of labour relations. The number of initiatives received by the Ombudsman in 2010 decreased by 10 % from 2009. On the basis of the recommendations made in the 2009 report, the Ombudsman notes that they have remained largely unfulfilled. They are still the most up-to-date topics: non-payment of wages, non-payment of social security contributions, non-security and health at work, torture, harassment and harassment in the workplace and employment of foreigners. The next area we want to highlight in our parliamentary group is social. Once again, the general problem of poverty and the increase in social distribution must be highlighted in particular, as the report shows that most of the recommendations that have been made in recent years have not been implemented. The poor material conditions of many families and individuals, which are reflected in the increasing number of social threats of the weakest members of our society, have not only been repeated annually, but poverty has been a constant in our space for quite some time. It's just getting worse. The general economic crisis and the increase in unemployment are also increasing the social distress of people, who are also struggling with social benefits. The number of initiatives addressed by the Ombudsman is increasing from year to year. According to 2009 the percentage of treatment in 2010 is 16% higher. As in previous years, social distress is the greatest among the older population and when it comes to disabled persons, single persons and families with children. Material distress is mainly related to the loss of regular income due to the loss of employment, and in the case of older people, although they have incomes, they are not sufficient for a normal and quality life. The population of the elderly is still socially and also increasingly problematic. On the one hand, we have a situation where older people become increasingly dependent on their own. On the other hand, let me also point out that in the economic crisis, the resulting unemployment has caused a situation where, on an increasing scale, pensioners are often those who are financially helping their children and grandchildren. It is certainly worrying that 91% of all pensioners receive pensions of up to €600, which is actually already the poverty threshold, namely €593. More and more individuals and families are in such a socio-economic situation when they are prevented or even denied access to all the goods that the social state is supposed to provide to all. Health care, education, housing policy and justice are particularly exposed. Many facts prove that the real picture of poverty is worse than what the State perceives. According to the DeSUS Group's assessment, this must be addressed immediately and the rise in poverty must be stopped. However, we fear that, given the current situation in the Slovenian and global economies, the number of poor will continue to increase. However, due to the current political situation in our country, the constructive and effective response to this issue is even more questionable, but at the very least, it is time-consuming in the future. We're afraid that time isn't much longer. We fear that social problems in our country will escalate to the widest possible extent. Institutional protection is still problematic. Let me reiterate that some issues are still open. This is a lack of free household capacities, long waiting periods and prices of services and care, all of which has been pointed out by the Ombudsman in recent years. In 2010, in the field of home for elderly citizens, the Ombudsman dedicated her work to addressing the actual situation of the elderly and the situation of employees in these institutions. In her report, the Ombudsman is critical of protected departments where there is no permanent staff at night or otherwise adequate supervision and immediate assistance is provided. The opinion is also that in all cases, the response of staff to the call of the lodger must be rapid, that the unmovable residents, who are allowed and who want to do so, should be able to sit frequently enough on wheelchairs at the end of the week and work free days to allow the occupants of the protected departments to remain in the fresh air and the residents of the nursing wards to be involved in individual and group leisure activities. I would also like to point out the need to establish an institution for the protection of older persons and children, because they are the most vulnerable people and are certainly very powerless when they are subjected to violence, either psychologically or physically. In the DeSUS Group, we are very positive about the Ombudsman's work and claim that this institution is still needed. We will also support this report in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Silven Majhenič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u83	Dear Mr. Vice President, the well-respected guardian! In the introduction, you wrote that you are wondering for yourself what are the subjects of human rights that are truly important and for whom. You point out with your warnings that you want to draw the attention of Members and motivate them with arguments that the recommendations will also be implemented. All is well and well, but the question is immediately raised here, and how many times a year does the Ombudsman turn to Members and it would not appear that the Ombudsman would put an interim report in place of one such extensive report in the middle of the year and that such initiatives would be saved in a year. Members of Parliament repeatedly ask questions through the Member's questions to ministers about human rights violations, as citizens turn to us with letters and explain that they have already turned to the Ombudsman, where they have not received an answer or the Ombudsman has forgotten that the problem is of vital importance to them and in response only gives the Ombudsman comforting guidance and no action. Therefore, citizens often turn to us Members for help, especially when they are in a hopeless situation. And that this will not sound like some kind of fictional story, I will present to you, with one of many cases, the problem of the student, on which I have also asked the Minister of Justice a question. A student from Murska Sobota wrote to our parliamentary group with the following content. "Although I was perfectly healthy, because I did not want to live with my father, the court in Murska Sobota triplicated me three times and forced me into psychiatric institutions in the country. I was 14 years old, and I didn't want to live with my father, but with my mother, and the court assigned me to my father against my will. On the basis of my judgment, I was brutally robbed three times. The execution was carried out with 25 police officers, 8 criminals, 3 marks, 6 with police vehicles, a ambulance and three executioners. Is this a legal state where everyone is supposed to be equal before the law?" At her home, she was tied to a hospital bed and taken to a psychiatric ward in Maribor, and later moved to a psychiatric ward in Ljubljana, where she was in a closed ward and was so illegally deprived of her liberty. Madam Guardian, with all due respect to you, do you know this case and how you acted? I have warned Minister Zalar through the question sent on this occasion, and I have also given him a copy of the memo sent, but as I am aware, nothing has happened until today. This is just one of the many cases which we Members forward and probably should not go past you. Unfortunately, such cases are too many, so it is not difficult for you to decide, only your sovereignty must be established and the politicians must turn their backs and everyone who needs your help will be satisfied. We are always more aware that the country is giving you increasing importance because you are often acting as a judge, and trust in you is immeasurable, especially in the case of archives, when you have decided what is confidential and what is not. It is also stated in the draft law on the powers of the police that you will assess what police officers should and what they should not do and could not mention.You could also act in a number of cases when hearings were performed and indirectly harassing certain persons, especially Members and Mayors, because, as we know, these hearings came to the public many times with distorted content, except from the context, of course they were not intended for the public, but only to detect and prosecute the suspicions of criminal service. One such story is listening and audio recording in the premises of the Slovenian Railways. It is a grave violation of fundamental human rights, which the Ombudsman should condemn and demand prosecution under Article 137 and Article 138 of the Penal Code, and we know that nothing has been heard about it. You wrote that the Ombudsman has the possibility of looking into the backdrop of most of the events, but I wonder why he does not take advantage of it and put himself on the side of the weak, because it is not only those who have been erased and imprisoned, but we are at the time of the forgiveness of thousands of workers who have not received wages and have not paid their contributions. The main players who are responsible for this have not been held accountable until today, as we know. And the injustices committed did not fully come to an end. You have touched on most of the areas, and one of them is experts, who in this report are reminded of the dissatisfaction of individual instigators with the work of judicial experts, and they are aware of their anonymity and poor quality of work. The Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group addressed the Minister of Justice in this mandate with an initiative to amend the Law on Courts on the regulation of the status of judicial experts, as the latter are also carrying out an additional activity during their working time, but I must explain that the Ministers have been refused. This raises the question of the meaning of the Ombudsman's institution and the annual warning of human rights violations, if the situation remains the same, since no one accepts urgent changes despite the constant warnings of the Ombudsman in particular. As we see from the Ombudsman's report, some irregularities are repeated year after year, for which it is not the Ombudsman's fault, but the ruling coalition and the government, which must discharge the four-year mandate entrusted to them by the people in the elections. Perhaps the guardian should also be concerned when someone responsible for the blessing of the nation in its entirety does not do so responsibly to express his or her opinion. It is not right for a nation to be punished — I do not know why — by mismanagement and repression in all areas and by penalties that are several times higher than in Europe in road transport, further emptying the family budget and pushing them into misery. In the Ombudsman of Human Rights in the Slovenian National Party we see that article in the chain of justice, which is independent and fair, which will defend the rights of the poor and also the rich when they are on the side of truth and justice, and also when it is necessary to tell those who think they are almighty, the truth in the face that they are always on the verge of law. The Ombudsman also has every opportunity, even in view of the expertise of the staff, to be able to detect and respond in all areas, which he also describes in the report, both in the field of children's rights, health, employment and could also list. The report is extensive and professional, indicating that the Ombudsman's institution is monitoring developments in the country and that the report proves that the Ombudsman's function is always more important and necessary. And in the end. Does the Ombudsman not worry that the voters are now being offered as saviors of those who co-created the coalition and the government, have led to a collapse and have not fulfilled the voter's trust for a four-year term, but have ended up in disgrace to all Slovenes and Slovenes at home and around the world? We will, of course, support the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A friendly greeting to the Ombudsman, to the deputies, to the Minister and to the representative of the Government. It is also important to note that those who have prepared a comprehensive, high-quality report are participating in the hearing today. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have read your report, received your report with affection, understanding, we will also support it, but we are surprised that what has happened in recent years is that human rights and this report is also the subject of a political account or an appearance before the local elections, so that the opinions of some previous debaters from this city cannot be commented on, but it will be possible to do so for a time. Surely, if we look at the life of human society throughout the millenniums, that it never and never happened without violating human rights, that today, more than we will work in this area, we will discover more irregularities and shortcomings. However, for those who think positively, well-intentionedly, it is clear that the story has the right content, the direction of work is right, and that the conclusions are true, and that the situation in the country is not alarming, nor is it so bad. It is so that it can still be improved, that it can still be fixed, but if it is not a toy in the hands and needs of the daily policy. I would like to point out, on the basis of experience, also from local communities, that consideration or some application given by an individual is often dealt with in only one aspect. Only from the point of view of rights. It is my opinion that right and duty must go hand in hand. Yesterday, when it was Sunday, I spent about half a week answering the questions and initiatives of voters and voters. And when we decided in the congregation after decades to check the wealth and income of those who have been living in municipal nonprofit homes for years and years — some of them even twenty, thirty years — on social terms, two of these people wrote, and we are doing exactly what our task is by law, so that they will report us to the Ombudsman. People with social rights need to know that they also have a social duty. And here I see a great flaw in this system, that those who sometimes rightly complain that they only see their rights, but they have no responsibilities. You have described cases in the area of free legal aid. This is only heard, but for all of us other citizens and citizens, this right is not free; it will be paid, it will be paid from our resources, which are collected together in the form of taxes and income. And if free legal aid is used by someone who works abroad, someone who works in black or something else, then the question of weighing between his right and duty is raised. I am also pleased that you have noticed movements in some areas; inter alia, in the area of justice that waiting types are shorter, and in internal matters, that positive movements have been made, which are also properly exposed in the report itself. The number of complaints at the expense of the length of the proceedings is lower after many years than the smaller total number of cases pending consideration. At the same time, mediation procedures have proved to be a successful and correct path. Like all the years and so far, the Members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support your comprehensive, properly and effectively presented report and your efforts will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u87	Instead of saying hello to the guests and to the visitors, see what difference it makes! Previous item on the agenda – consideration of the report of the State Security Service, here is no one. Today we see the entire team, Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik with his associates. This has also been the case all the time, in fact, in the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights, they have always participated, actively participated and have therefore all commended these reports. The problem with all these reports is as follows. Every year they're better, they say, but things are kind of repeating from year to year, we have similar problems on the agenda, we're dealing with them. I think that the key problem of all this is the irresponsibility of government services, ministries and individual officials or government officials who do not respond to calls, such as the Commission on Human Petitions and Human Rights, as the Ombudsman's Institute. We should take non-response more seriously. I would also suggest that over the next period we pay more attention to this, that the Ombudsman's Institute should in fact draw up a list of persons or ministers who do not respond to questions and initiatives that do not answer, and that we, too, or future Members, should commit ourselves to the responsibility for the non-responsibility of more attention. If the response were to improve, it would probably move a lot. However, responsibility is always required with concrete names and events. I mentioned things happen again. What is amazing is, for three years we have been alerted to the non-payment of salaries and social security contributions. In three years, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour have not found measures, instruments, proposed appropriate amendments to the law in order to move the matter forward. They didn't find it. The army of people with professional references is employed, yet so ineffective, so uncreative and unsustainable. There is simply no political will to move things. The problem of non-payment of social security contributions today is given another additional dimension. We hear that they deny the right to health care to maintenance members, that children are still being taken care of, that other members of the family are members of independent entrepreneurs who are not at fault in this situation, and today we are fighting whether we are going to put this topic on the agenda, or whether we will be able to fix this disgrace before the end of our term. At the hearing of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights, I myself expressed another opinion on how little it would be necessary, how little it would be necessary for certain things to move. We are constantly voicing that this will be regulated systematically with some new law. The non-payment of contributions is also expected, as the Minister will say today, to resolve with the pension reform that has been rejected; it is said that we will now wait one year for the new reform to take place, and then we will resolve it, instead of immediately joining it if the pension law has fallen, why it has not immediately joined other measures. When I say how little it is necessary, I have already illustrated two cases, on the payment sheet prescribed by the Labour Relations Act, we would only attribute a sub-law to one more indent: the date, the day of this, and this was paid a social contribution tax, but the government does not want to do so. I say he won't. Why? That's what the unions warned me about. A well-informed worker could react, otherwise he has the theoretical possibility of turning to the tax administration, but these procedures are somewhat delayed and complicated – he must be identified personally. If I had been informed in time, I could have responded, turned to the company’s board of directors, inquired, or considered how to proceed. You might even exercise the right, there's the core of the problem, after the employer's guilt has broken down. In this case, the worker would have been compensated, in court, 100 %. In case he's not aware of the company's situation and this firm is going bankrupt, he's got that percentage of bankruptcy. You see, uninformed workers could be saved in substantially more elegant and accessible ways for workers, and workers could react and act on their own time. How little it would take to protect workers employed through employment agencies. Just a change, maybe one in one of the articles – from 75 to 66, I think. A few indents would be enough, or, as I said, just one indent, and we would find out or act to make these workers more secure. Again, there's no need to change the law. In the Agency’s annual reports, it would give only one indent, the number of employees who receive the compensation prescribed by law upon termination of the lease. This would give the Ministry information as to whether this institute even works, whether the circulation of workers between different users is actually carried out, whether workers are actually fired and put on the road when they are terminated. Once again, it takes very little for a matter to be settled. As we say, political will is lacking. Today we listened to the forerunners, and indeed, I had the feeling that the whole thing was pre-eminently dyed. Ms Eva Irgl mentioned the Bulmastif affair, the Stožice, the new candidate for the mandate. Still, I'd like a sentence on that. As I would say, the case of the citizen of Baricevic and the citizen of Meglic is still symbolically reflecting the case of the rule of law. What's already been said. This is not only about the rights of marginal groups, but also about the majority of these groups of 99, which today is popular to talk about: one legal system for one and another legal system for us, the other citizens, who obviously are not in political elites. The Hives were also mentioned. I don't want to give a whiff of the election campaign, but I'll just say that -- I didn't go to the opening of this beautiful facility. When someone asked me why I didn't go, I'd go if I knew all the subcontractors were paid and all the workers who worked there got paid. [[...]] Then there would really be one great celebration at which everyone could clap. This is another example that symbolically reflects the state of the spirit and the state of our country. Slovenia behaves with beautiful facades, everything is arranged, but as someone said at the previous point today, an eldorado for corruption, for the Mafia, under these facades, let us hope that the next report will receive a response in government circles and that this problem of non-response will be reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities will be presented by Dr. László Göncz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's report shows that the Ombudsman's institution has also operated at a high professional level in the past year. The institution has done well in its substantively diverse tasks, so we will also support the report on this activity. If we compare the content that we dealt with in the institution, we can find that it is similar to in other countries of our wider biographical region, of course with certain specifics. Undoubtedly, the Ombudsman's recommendations have also contributed to solutions that have been adopted in recent months in relation to the status of a minority community that do not fall within the circle of the so-called indigenous national community. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, the report covers only a relatively short general part and a sub-chapter on bilingual supplements under the Chapter of Working Relations, which is otherwise properly prepared. In the chapter of the report on the specific rights of the national community, the introductory conclusion is that in 2010 there were no initiatives by members of the national communities, which could form the basis for the intervention of the Ombudsman. Only a few cases of non-payment for bilinguality were dealt with. As regards the latter, it should be noted that the views of the Ombudsman are in agreement with the opinion of the national community on the issue of bilingual supplement. In our view, it is correct to conclude that, both in principle and in specific cases, the right to a bilingual supplement can be decided only in the context of general legal provisions based on the knowledge that a bilingual supplement belongs to persons or employees who use Hungarian or Italian in their work to be born in a mixed area in accordance with sectoral legislation and sub-legislative acts. Otherwise, in the comprehensive system solutions of a bilingual supplement from a legal point of view, there are quite a few issues that we wanted to resolve under the envisaged general law in the indigenous national community. As the process of drafting the law has been formally suspended due to the current political situation, certain content in this area remains open or unclear. I am confident that they will have to be tackled as soon as possible, so that the complications will not occur, as the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman points out in the report. In the context of my position, I would like to place very briefly three more points on the table by our Group of Members. First time. Regrettably, there is also a violation of the rights of indigenous national communities institutionally and in part, but for psychological reasons in particular, many fear that they would not harm themselves by making an application, do not report potential violators. In the past year, for example, there have been some instances of hate speech at the expense of the language of culture and the history of national communities addressed to individuals or communities as a whole. And this, unfortunately, can be seen even more during the current year. In such matters, self-governing national communities must also play a greater role in the future, in cooperation with the establishment of the Ombudsman, to respond more closely to such violations and to encourage those who have been wronged. Another time. Otherwise, no one is reporting, but every day we record situations where the use of their own mother tongue is not actually possible for members of the national communities to solve their personal affairs in public or municipal institutions. We are talking about cases where the possibility of using the language in the national mixed area is not equally offered in the Slovenian language. Otherwise, a formal person may request or request to fulfil such conditions, but I believe that if this is not provided spontaneously, the right of any member of the national community is already violated. Such situations and conditions are considerable and largely prevent the existence and development of the language of the national communities and thus their comprehensive existence. And in the end, third time. We estimate that despite the high legal protection of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, which we are always stressing, it is very crumbling in the field of the actual enforcement of legal provisions. This will need to be rectified as soon as possible. This is expected to be achieved in the general law under the already mentioned law, which should also provide a system-wide solution for better integration of the Ombudsman's institution, as the institution itself points out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respected Ombudsman with a co-worker and co-workers, Honourable Minister and two other representatives of the Government, Members and Members! In its opening observations, the Ombudsman points out that in 2010, two systemic topics were closely monitored, namely the control and effectiveness of Slovenian human rights law. If we focus first on surveillance, there is a warning in several places in the report about the lack, inefficiency or even lack of control. The Ombudsman is critical in particular to inspection services, and it is indeed important to point out that warnings about the work of inspection services have been repeated for a long time, and the National Assembly has also adopted several recommendations to strengthen inspection services, while we believe that at least two should be taken into account: whether poor supervision is due to a lack of legal regulation or whether it is due to the failure of services or even individuals. The responsibility for the first lies with the legislator, and the second is primarily with responsibility for those who have to comply with their obligations in a consistent manner, but often hide themselves for a very narrow and rigid interpretation of the rules and use their energy to prove what cannot be done. Social Democrats are aware of the importance of supervision, but also of the fact that, with full respect for legislation at all levels, and thus of raising the legal culture, the extent of violations can be reduced, and therefore the training and awareness of employees in inspection services is also important, and in particular the need to raise the general awareness of the importance of respect for human rights and the strengthening of civil awareness. In the face of widespread erosion of trust in institutions and the country, it is impossible to avoid frequent, growing misunderstandings and decision-making, and therefore increasingly frequent complaints to the unjustifiable, and unfortunately also to the justifiable. In this regard, it points to the increase in inspection services, mentioned already, for 39 employees, which is encouraging at the time of the reduction of employees in public administration. However, many things could be regulated by redistribution, of course with the necessary professional training for difficult work. Regarding the issue of the effectiveness of Slovenian legislation, the Ombudsman points out that many of the laws adopted conflict with previously established rights and that certain laws are avoided by drafters. The Ombudsman could be attached in many respects, including respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court, to such a thing. We stress, however, that there are two ways to address shortcomings at systemic level and address them in the context of major changes or even a new law. On the other hand, a partial solution is only a narrow problem, which is not necessarily the best solution, since unforeseen bad consequences can later be revealed. The first path is longer and not always successful, the second can be good, but not necessarily. In the National Assembly, we have adopted several laws that have addressed the shortcomings that the Ombudsman warns about, and the laws in the referendum have been rejected, or this can happen to them. A number of problems would have been overcome by the Disability and Pension Insurance Act, such as individuals for whom the employer did not pay contributions, but were formally accounted for, this period would not have been included in the calculation of the pension base, but, of course, in the pension period, also the availability of data on paid contributions to the pension and disability allowance. The Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black and the Small Work Act would strengthen inspection supervision, the Media Law would improve child protection, the Family Code would improve the protection of children's benefits, the powers of social work centres and courts were changed, and corporal punishment of children was prohibited. A special law is provided for an advocate of children's rights, a confidential person is introduced, a person who trusts the child. Certain discriminatory provisions under the legislation currently in force, as well as in the rejected RTV Act, have been removed. And we could list it. In addition to children and the elderly, young people, people living in an polluted environment and individual groups of discrimination are also included in the report: deleted, minorities, convicts and forgotten from the country. The poor have become the largest group of vulnerable and least insured residents, according to the Ombudsman. In its introduction, the Ombudsman notes that the mechanisms of protection against discrimination are still weak, but at this point he particularly points out the positive changes in the light of the adoption of the Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation of the national communities of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. The Ombudsman points out that in Slovenia we still do not have a national human rights institution dealing with preventive work and research on the state of human rights in the country. Social Democrats are expected to find a suitable solution for the working group and we will get a national human rights institution in due course. In the 2009 report, 154 recommendations were made, with 112 in the 2010 report, with 36 recommendations making sense. We support all of the Social Democrats, as well as the two recommendations made by the Coalition Group on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as an interested working body and forwarded them to the home working body. The rights of minorities are very important for the Social Democrats, and we therefore expect the National Assembly to support the recommendation that measures to promote the implementation of the above-mentioned declarations, as well as measures to implement the new Child Guidance Act with special needs. And just for the end. The Institute of the Ombudsman has become strongly entrenched in the consciousness of Slovenian society. The Ombudsman will also prepare the next report with her team. The readers of this report will change. We expect and hope that at least as good a reader as this government and all the competent ones, as well as the National Assembly, will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for recommendations. The first is Mr Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, the rest of you are present, Mrs. Chebashek! We have also discussed your report on two of our working bodies where I was present, and we have assessed your report as a very good report, which has covered a wide range of problems that we have in our country by violating human rights. I'm just going to stop with some, maybe they're not the biggest, but they're kind of characteristic of the state of the spirit, if I may say so, in this country, because it's very important. For example, in the area of justice there is a speech in chapter 2.4 on the dignity of the parties, on public order in the courts and so on. You're writing here about someone who undressed naked because he wanted to humiliate someone else. Of course, this is a fraction of the problems that have been happening in the courts in recent years, where almost cheerleading groups are coming, where those who are there at work are humiliated, so judges and others, where such an interesting atmosphere is created, if you can, who can, if you have a good lawyer, you can even get the best judge into a goat's arms and there's no judge who can finish some cases. This is what all citizens watch on TV. I don't want to rob the Ombudsman of human rights with this, but I just want to add something about this state of the spirit. That such an attitude towards institutions or disrespect, the neglect of institutions such as the President of the State, the President of the Government and other institutions, the judicial branch of the authorities and everything else in the country that regulates and implements them, means that we are coming in a period where we will simply and simply get stuck and we will not be able to get out of this if something does not quickly change for the better. In my opinion, since I've been in this National Assembly, I've heard and seen so many ugly things that I can't believe this is happening in this branch of power. Personally, it was unacceptable for me to underestimate the President of the country as an institution. Let him call himself what he wants, in which case his name is Danilo Türk. There'll be someone else tomorrow, someone else will be the third president of this country. And then right, these people are those who are filled with the mouth of human rights, dignity and, of course, showing the rules of life. That seems problematic to me. This is at this point a state of spirit that should be changed. So much for that. There's a lot to talk about. Registration of a residence where we come back to some strange matters where the Ombudsman mentions this, as it is in his jurisdiction and here I do not have your comments, but the fact that we have such a law where elections can take place – this is what happens in elections. People move from one congregation to another in order to vote and support someone who just wants to have more than he thinks he would have with only those citizens who are available there. And that's what's going on, all the time, and we can't keep our eyes closed here so it doesn't happen. We need to go to administrative units and ask what and how. Clearly, Mrs Chebaskov's answer was to report it. Of course, I hope whoever went to the studio will report 60 and more people. And then everything goes up and nothing happens. It can be an answer, you change the law, we accept it, but at this point, that's what's happening. And everyone says something, because you can do whatever you want! The non-payment of social security contributions was resolved until we had SDK. When we shut down SDK and set up Maria's company to control it, this story ended. End of story. There's not much to discuss! The person who does this is incapable of monitoring it and does not have all the powers that the SDK has. The abolition of SDK means anarchy. And we obviously wanted to do it when we did it, anarchy in this country, and today we came to the point that the workers — not to talk about it because we saw it all on TV, we read about it, and that I am not tired of what is happening in this area. And as my predecessor said about how these problems could be solved: with no anger, with no force, with no new laws. Majda Potrat spoke precisely about this: it was necessary to adopt a law on working in black. There were all the solutions in there. For those of the workers who were employed in black, the solution was that the worker himself could report it to anyone else, that he had to pay him three months back for contributions. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Indeterminate employment. [[...]] [[Thank you very much, Brada.]] This was a very important category in this law. And you won't believe it, almost 170 customs officers would get a job as supervisors or inspectors to oversee all of this by adopting this law. All of this we have rejected with politics because we have fucked up the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is Pahor who has accepted this, that it is bad, that Pahor has no idea that he does not know how to run the government and the state and so on. And we've lost this law. Now let the people who went to the referendum handle it! That one, I used to listen to them behind the stage so they wouldn't be ashamed. The very one – I will not appoint anyone because I do not want to give the impression that we have early elections and early electoral campaigns. But we should think about it before we say anything. This law had to be adopted. What have some done? They pulled out the neighbourhood aid, which was adopted in 2000, not now. They were full of mouths, talking in villages and towns, and saying that from now on, your neighbor can't help you pick up corn, your neighbor can't cover your roof. And in that case, I said that one group of assholes was going to build a house. They took her to the roof, and then the big idiot asked, "Let's make a roof or not?" My wife says, "I'm not sure what to do either." Then said the chief fool, "Now go down to the village and ask the rest of the fools whether we make a roof or not on this house." That's how they decided to end this action. Similarly, those in need of help have been affected. And look at the fragment! It's those who need it that go to the referendum and surround themselves with "against". But we all have the right to decide what we want. I'm sorry this marriage wasn't passed because it wasn't harmful in anything. And it's not true that neighbourhood aid would be eliminated and so on. It's normal that you can't go if you're a bricklayer to a neighbor's roof. You have to pay him a bill and pay him a tax. You can still be friends with him, but if you're not a bricklayer, you can go carry the roofs as much as you want and mix the mortar. But if you're a professional bricklayer and you cover the roof, you have to pay the tax. There is no country in which taxes are not paid. And this one has to pay for them, too. But obviously we're used to what I know, but the country lives from somewhere, we get money. It may be sent by Santa Claus, but lately it has bad packages, small ones – if it is already sent. But it's not like that. Look, I think we probably lost a lot of opportunities when we stepped on the referendum pension reform. Those who really read the pension reform could have found that future pensioners would have a higher pension by pension reform and would not have been granted social transfer. We will have because we have not adopted pension reform in the coming years on the social transfer of more and more pensioners. They are social supporters, they are no longer pensioners. And you can imagine how a person feels when he's been working for 40 years and he's finally a social supporter because we didn't accept pension reform! Because it was more important to bring down Borut Pahor and coalition!This was more important. One day at the pharmacy, the pharmacist asked me what would happen at this referendum, what would happen to this reform. I asked her if she'd read what the minister sent her home, a book like that. That he didn't send it. I told her to take a look, and she'll see that he sent it. And the second time I came to the pharmacy after two months, I asked her, and she said they found her between Mercator's papers and they read her. That's not so bad. But the referendum is already over. And most people did the same because this very pressure and desire to overthrow the government was greater than that of doing good for people. And today those who have done so have succeeded in this purpose, and I hope they are also satisfied and happy, because this government will end this week with its work as well as the National Assembly. And then, Mrs Čebašek, the violation of human rights was also in the Intereuropa, Luka, Istrabenz and all companies, such and similar, where some called for all-powerful masters and worked with people like a cat with a mouse. And today, when some of these companies are shut down or some of them live and get less, they make less money than their banking annuity for stupidity, which they have invested in some distant countries to cover it all up, people wonder who else will have a job tomorrow. And I wonder what it's like for people who come to work every day and don't know when they'll be in this job. But they know that this firm of theirs is certainly not going to turn green anymore. And these are problems that have not arisen under the rule of the current government. And now there's something else in your report that I'm going to read very briefly as proof that I didn't go to the election campaign in my performance. On the 229th page, under 2.11.1, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, which does not respect the Supreme Court's decision, and you write: "The Ombudsman only deals with cases on an exceptional basis, but the initiative has pointed out several important legal issues," which you also mention in here, "which we would like to point out and should be resolved by the legislator. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of... of 19. 9. 2006," I stress this, "to establish that the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which limits the right to a partial pension only to insured persons in a working relationship, is inconsistent with the Constitution. It ordered the national assembly to remove the finding of non-compliance within 9 months of the publication of the decision. The National Assembly on the Unconstitutionality of the Law has not abolished it." That was in 2006. And at the end of all the cases you mention, you wrote: "The problem of discrimination described was solved by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was rejected at the time of writing this report to the referendum." Here! I only wanted to read this because of how important it is to think sometimes before such things are done, such as the rejection of pension reform. This is just one of the proofs that this government is a social democratic government: a bunch of laws that have been in the process and have survived even great trials, such as 46 votes, is the veto that the State Council can give – and yet that is not enough, but it was a huge desire to go to the referendum. The backgrounds are known. Will those who rule after us ever need a pension law - I don't think they'll need it because it's good enough, I believe, for the next 100 years. And I think it's also the best decision for those who think that everything is so easy in this world: just refuse, then destroy everything and then quietly go home, as if nothing happened. I apologize for touching some of the areas that are not in this report, but you know, nothing comes of itself and nothing happens, for every matter must be created by circumstances. Many times, circumstances have also been created to violate human rights, that the company is weak, that it is managed by an incompetent person, that there is anarchy in the company or that the company is doing what has been done so far – I hope that this story has ended – that, according to the household, the company has been stolen and the workers left on the shoulders of the country. This country has accepted this burden on itself and has already faced huge problems at the start, workers who have remained on the road and without everything. I think that she was successful in solving them, perhaps even because of the smaller problem, even in your 2010 annual report, which I, as such, make a very good assessment, because the report is a report, you have written at least what is really going on in this country in the field of human rights protection and nothing less. Wishing that this report would be cheaper next year, I will conclude my debate. At the same time, I would like to commend the Ombudsman in our country, if I may say so, for one simple reason; it is necessary to have enough energy to visit all those places, municipalities, all those people, the bodies you have visited to draw up such a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Get ready, sir, Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable Ombudsman, respected ministers and other representatives of the Government or the Office! In particular, I would like to stop in a chapter dealing with a very pressing issue, nicely said, the exploitation of foreign workers, which continues despite some of the attempts and efforts of this government to regulate in legislation issues relating to their employment and the lack of rights that foreigners are facing at the time of their loss of employment. I have to speak very appreciatively about the description of the facts in this report. After all, the issue of the rights of workers, the so-called IPS companies, which also enter into sub-contracts with certain important state-owned companies, is, after all, the case of Luke Koper – unfortunately, we have not been able to regulate the legislation to these workers. The so-called invisible workers were also in this national assembly, we accepted them, we listened to them, and then we found that when they lose their jobs, they also lose their right to stay in our country and, of course, the whole range of rights that go to them under the Labour Relations Act and are recognised as our citizens, that is, for workers in this situation. We do not yet have comprehensive solutions for foreign workers, so there is constant blackmail of employers using this tool, these weapons of visa loss or residence permits in the Republic of Slovenia as a real means of blackmail even when setting conditions. I myself witnessed when I met with subcontractors at Luka Koper, I realized the situation and also the price for which they work under very difficult conditions. In fact, today, when President Luke Koper tries to settle this within the economic package, we find that there is still a lack of legislative infrastructure that automatically ensures certain rights and equal rights for all workers. As you know, it's a long-standing problem. The government has tried to resolve this in part with various international agreements, but the fact remains that the part that concerns the relationship with a worker who loses his job and has to leave Slovenia remains misplaced. This Chapter also deals rightly with non-payment of compulsory contributions. We would resolve this issue if we adopted a pension reform, because the postponement of these contributions would no longer be possible. But the pension reform has not been adopted, and therefore the party has recently tabled a bill to end this chapter in an appropriate manner and no longer allow the payment of these contributions to be delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Ma'am mag. Sarah Wheeler. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u97	Your Honor! It's not enough time for a person to comment on all the suggestions and recommendations. I imagined myself at the conclusion of the Ombudsman's introduction, which says, "I end with the thought of an enemy speech: first, the word was spoken and written, followed by acts, in the history of mankind, many times followed by conflict or even war." And then there's a few more poetry supplements. But if this is so, that hate speech is one of the main problems in Slovenia, I agree that the devil's great problem is what you can hear, read, watch, when some things happen, even in this house. Not to mention some of the leading media that produce this in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, I am not satisfied with the proposal for a recommendation on page 51, which says: "The government should consider the possibility of public promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance being sanctioned as an offence." I am convinced that our legislation is already regulating hatred in the way that you are processing it in this chapter. So that this would be just some offense now, because if you are promoting hatred, violence and intolerance, then of course you are acting contrary to the Constitution, with fundamental values in the country, and it must also be sanctioned. In this context, I then walked to the chapter where the Roma communities, Sints and other marginal groups are concerned. I must say that I have a lot of behavior in this work over the past year, in two ways: on the one hand – as you note that there is no clear sharing of responsibilities and responsibilities between national authorities and local communities – about the lack of social inclusion of Roma and their concern, on the other hand – which is not being given enough attention and has warned more and more about violence by Roma, violence that is being carried out daily, and in different ways. It's the intimidation of older people and others, it's the thefts, it's the robberies, the organs don't react, I get these complaints every day. It's not really detectable here. And the answers are, "Let them go, for we can't hurt them." And so on. And that, in my opinion, is frightening and it is most in Dolenjska, in the White landscape and elsewhere in Slovenia. Also, if you look at what the international problems are now when it comes to Romanian Roma, when it comes to Roma from other countries, say Bulgaria, in Luka Koper, where epilepsy is then drooling, which I read about in newspapers, when they steal people who go out of the store, then they blink in front of law enforcement authorities when they're caught, epilepsy and similar things. As far as crime and non-action by the state are concerned, when it comes to our Roma and those coming from other countries, this is one of the major European problems of late – look at Italy, look at Spain, look at Germany, and you will see how it is with this immigration. Otherwise, drive once on Saturday, Sunday from Lendava to Kopra. What are the registrations? And every so long, they find trafficking in white goods or trafficking in human beings, and so on, most of the time what these people do. That is how I feel in this part that it is possible to stress this balance. I agree that the state and local communities do not do enough, and, clearly, the requirement for a constitutional assessment, and so on, is welcome, as well as the participation in the elections of the Roma councillor of the Municipality of Grosuplje, but this is at the normative level and at the level of some arrangements, not in real ones. With regard to specific cases, in other cases only this funeral in the Dobroška village or municipality of Škocjan is practically mentioned in this area, but the examples from Ambrus are further presented with such problems; not to mention the issue of drinking water in individual settlements and other matters. That is why I would conclude by supporting the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations as an institution, and especially the part that speaks about what can be done at systemic level by amending the legislation, because this is the primary task of the National Assembly, and I believe, as well as it is possible to find that we are going from year to year for better.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u99	Your Honor, hello! We're already dealing with 16. The annual report of the Ombudsman, which, as we can see, is very extensive and sensitive to the situation in society, which is particularly commendable. My concern is solely because there are also some so-called backlogs, that this book would not be even thicker over time, although the report makes it very clear that much has been done for the benefit of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, it is said that many authorities, many of them, have taken into account the Ombudsman's recommendations, the Ombudsman, in the previous period. Still, I am concerned about a lot of hate speech and intolerance to others. Although there are no members of the opposition here now – there are two, two and a half – but many times we could draw up a list, a list of different ones. Then we should ask ourselves why they should be categorized as different, or whether they should go without such leaves and if they threaten me differently. I'm not going anywhere personally, so I think we should talk about different things the way we are. For example, I would mention only the Family Code, which is already spoken of by my colleague Križman, I will not repeat – disaster and shame that it is not adopted, because this code has so much to do with our society, with children, with families and so on that it should be adopted. But no, something else is happening to us! Today, some have expressed their traumas in this environment, and the pain, even with the possible candidate Zoran Jankovic, I do not know why he is the star. At the 1st item of the agenda of today's session, we have listened to whole quotations and today at this point as well. I don't think that's necessary. Some concerns are very concerned that the time limit of justice is also between the consecrated, among the Members, among the mayors, among such and other wealthy who have property of suspicious origin and so on. Also among those who have friends who just wander around with 300, 400, 500 thousand euros without saying that it will have to be returned once and for all. I've got an investigative committee in my head that's tied to freebies who's discovered a lot of things. So we're not exactly pure society, and they're crying and crying today because someone stepped on their tail. However, I think the special attention of the guardian's team will have to be on various TV shows in the future. We meet with round tables or whatever, where the leader asks and the present ones answer. And those who are members of the social work centre, or the police, or the judiciary, or teachers, cannot talk about purely specific matters on such shows, because this would stop the protection of human rights. All those others are extremely rich in information, convincing viewers and viewers that they are right and ultimately they are winners. And so it turns out that we don't have the rule of law, that our centers don't work, and so on. This is very bad, very dangerous. Perhaps some kind of round table should tell the media leaders of these TV shows in a narrow circle what such public broadcasts can say. There's only one more thing I'd like to mention. On the education committee, I talked about this, because as a teacher, I'm always very hurt when I see schools organizing sports days where the so-called paint ball game is being shot at by guns at a fellow student. I think the Department of Education, the Ministry of Education, should not only recommend that this is not happening, but ban it. We can think of something worse, that a child who is in maturation, who is not yet a mature person, etc., gets a weapon and, well, in a joke, for a joke, shoots a schoolmate in the woods. If he has a desire for weapons, after gun practice, then we have excellent shooting families and he should be introduced there, like a karate player and boxer, etc., in some club, he introduces himself to release this energy, but not negatively. But I don't think it's necessary, under any circumstances, to nurture such a sport with young people. We know what's going on in the United States and what happened in Norway and so on, where then such a deformed person kills someone, so little for a joke a little bit. I welcome this report, of course I will support the conclusions and wish you very much successful work on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Today, it is on the international day of the fight against poverty that we are discussing in the National Assembly at the last meeting of this meeting of the National Assembly the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. I myself am a member of the Commission as a working body, at which we listened to some of the emphasis and some of the content presented by the Ombudsman at the meeting of our Commission. I must say that if I were to assess the content in the form, I must say that this report is as good as it was a year ago, and that I am somehow worried about the part where we look at the content of the annual report itself. The Ombudsman himself then made some important points on the Commission and today. And let me summarize some of these and try to comment on them a little bit. The Ombudsman said in her opening statement today that Members and Members did not exploit the Ombudsman in the sense that I understood that they would be better involved, try to cooperate in this regard in order to obtain reliable data or to speed up any of the pressing problems that are taking place in the Republic of Slovenia. One of my fellow Members responded to this today — about that student from Murska Sobota. I must say that I have had quite a few problems in the field and that I have tried to establish some cooperation between the Institute of the Ombudsman and my post, namely, in the operation of the Spirits family from the Dravinjsko Summit. I wrote to the nanny myself, introduced her, but no more than that ever happened. I believe there are many similar cases. If I now touch on the content, as I just mentioned it, of the work; it is also in the contents of the report that the Ombudsman cites some of the cases that she has pointed out on the committee itself. In fact, it is a pressing problem that institutions would have to resolve if they were to operate in the Republic of Slovenia. When I analyze all these individual segments that I can see in the report, I can quickly find out that something is not working; and the fact that the institution that is for solving things is also alerted by the Ombudsman in its report as well as in additional performances. What is the problem, and what is the problem? In my firm opinion, this is a systemic problem: if institutions that should react do not respond, or then an institution such as the Ombudsman has a legal basis for reacting to it instead of those who should not. The fundamental question is, therefore, how is it with the legislation that actually governs the functioning of the Ombudsman's institution? I believe that today, at least most of the Members and Members who are in this Chamber, that the Ombudsman as an institution probably does not have sufficient legal basis for any concrete action, as other institutions do. So we find ourselves in a situation where we find out what Dr Čebašek Travnikov also points out that some things would try to solve, but there are no individual answers to the content of the questions addressed to the institutions, to individual ministries or to the government as such. It bothered me today when the nanny told me that we would do more. But we need more money for this. I agree with that, but at the time in which we have come to be, it is probably not just money and money that makes it possible to do something more, that there is also a lack of what it has itself pointed out that the Ombudsman is working on the basis of individual initiatives. I believe that in such acute times, for which responsibility is not only on the side of what is happening on a global scale in the field of economy and finance, but it is probably part of the consequence that Slovenia is in such a situation, including the reckless work of the government, which was responsible for leading this country. And where she brought her, you can see her today. Of course, I cannot accept the obvious that some today point to the ugly opposition, which has done everything that Borut Pahor's government could no longer function. This, you know, is an emergency exit. And if I stay with the content itself. This, and I have already talked about, and I am listening to this, I think that there was something similar in the consideration of the 2009 annual report, and I am again listening to the 2010 recommendation. Supervisory institutions shall not operate. I can't understand this, we find it over and over again – the supervisory institutions don't work. Do we not have a legal basis for supervisory institutions to operate? Does it have to be upgraded, upgraded? It's probably not a matter of opposition. However, if the opposition has already proposed a matter, it has not obtained the necessary majority. And we are back where we were, and probably, if things don't change, we will be listening to the same story when we consider the 2011 annual report. And what hurts, and what is being done in the consideration of the annual report, both for 2009 and for 2010, cannot be avoided: the exploitation of workers, and this with the assistance of the state. Here we go again! I am pleased that the Minister of Labour is with us in handling this important report, and it is in this context that his staff member has played one of the most visible roles in how these things can happen. The Ombudsman sitting behind the minister today may also whisper to him that he is also part of the blame at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. More than obvious is the case of a working inspector who should take action, to which Ambassador Pojbič warned him several times, but until this inspector left that things were at least seemingly falling apart – what is the actual picture and content, but there is another question. Exploitation of workers. If I link this exploitation of workers to today's International Day of Combating Poverty; on the one hand, we treat work as a value and the work should be provided to every citizen, if not, and at least that compensation for decent survival. And what's going on today? In fact, today we are in a situation where we can see that it is somehow easier for those who have received some social assistance or assistance from the State than those who are employed! Isn't that absurd?Oh, my God! It is said that work as a value and work, which would be based on the fact that work and compensation for the worker also survives decently, but those who do not work do not want to work, because they enjoy better conditions and actually exploit the part of the institution that gives them the right to some compensation because they do not work. Today, it has also been possible to conclude in all these discussions that legislation does not follow the actual state of affairs, and it is this content that the Ombudsman on the Commission on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has also highlighted. Where is the answer to why legislation does not follow the reality? Do things change so rapidly in the country that the legislator simply does not catch up with the situation, or do we again have something that we like to say is a systemic matter? For if the legislation does not follow the actual state, then it necessarily leads to anarchy and part of this anarchy can be monitored in individual segments and this is not good. Let me summarise another observation made by the Ombudsman, who said: "Too much work has been done in the public sector by external contractors." I ask you, because we could also analyze a little bit how we worked in this short term, whether the opposition has not specifically pointed out these contents and also proposed some important content that should be discussed, or whether they have experienced more or less rejection or even gone so far as not to be considered. It is more than obvious that this conclusion is indeed very, very appropriate. It's crazy money that goes to those who don't do their job in some department or some important institution. There is no expert who offers these services, who could do both the content and the worker in a particular sector, who is in charge of systematically working in this area, proposes solutions that are valid for complementing and bringing to life. Probably too much of this work is being done outside an institution, of a ministry – only if we look at the Ministry's review of how much money the Ministry wants to pay to an external provider. I'm not saying that it's the same formula for everything now, far away from it, and in my opinion and even after the Ombudsman's finding, it's probably too much. Too much of this work is given from the public sector to external contractors. Perhaps only and only so that certain transactions can be made. As long as this is the case, we can rightly ask ourselves why it is not better. Special interest, at least for me personally and also in the content of the annual report itself, is aroused by labour legislation during this period. If we look at all the acts that regulate this labour legislation – of course, this is a very large area. But it is not possible to adopt legislation in the National Council of Labour Law, which was previously not in line with all the social partners. It can't be! As long as we have the system we have, it's not possible. And what we have witnessed in the expiring term — exactly that! Because there was no time. The government has rushed in, flown in, forced the urgent procedure of some content, which also partly referred to the regulation of labour law, without harmonising it with the social partners, which should have been regulated as long as we are such a country as we are. It's not working! Labour law cannot be resolved quickly, nor can the content of laws be adopted in Parliament or in the working bodies of the National Assembly, unless the previous Government has taken care to harmonise with the social partners. It just doesn't work. Part of this was pension legislation, despite the huge amount of time invested in Parliament itself, but things were not sufficiently aligned with the social partners. And share the obvious today that SDS is the one that produced the referendum – this is a diversion, because we did not require a referendum. That must have been someone else's request. It is from those of whom I speak that such legislation must be coordinated with the social partners. They are not given because this is their basic task, and it is right to respond to these content as they respond. Just to protect their interests, they have done what is permitted by both the Constitution and the law. We can adopt here not yet know what laws under such or otherwise procedure, but as long as the Republic of Slovenia applies, constitutionally stipulates that in the Republic of Slovenia the authority of the people will have a final decision on this, no matter how we decide in the National Assembly, the people will have the people. And that's how it happens at the referendum. And today, to read to people who have rejected the individual content of the laws at the referendum is, of course, a pleasant presentation, which, of course, does not work. People are the ones who make the final decision if they think we just didn't make the right decisions. It would be good to talk about some more content, but I am sure that my colleagues and colleagues will add a piece to the mosaic of this annual report, which I think is very important. For it reflects just some image, some state in the country and in individual institutions, which are somehow controlled by the Ombudsman. As such, I would like the Institute to have, if it does not have, some broader powers, because it is not possible to accept a fact, which we can also see in the Ombudsman's report that, despite the fact that some ministries have not done so in the important content of the Ministry, it has not done so to inform the Ombudsman in writing, that is, through regular correspondence, that this content has not yet been dealt with in order to be considered. So we can't even get through this. And then the question is, how do the supervisory institutions work?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u103	Your Honor, nice to meet you! The Ombudsman in the introduction to the report points to social rights and the rule of law again. In our work, we have also asked ourselves many questions in this mandate, as social rights have been reduced and repression has increased. At the same time, we have noted the inefficiency of state institutions, especially judicial institutions, in large and incurring cases of criminal acts, while increasing, for example, penalties for minor offences. Most of the comments are in the field of labour relations and social rights, where there is an increase of about 15% in social protection initiatives. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to pay particular attention to this area, especially since today is a day aimed at combating poverty. Workers did not receive salaries, no contributions were paid for their insurance. Where was the surveillance here? How was that even possible? In the congregations, we see more and more social pressures, we try to help, and our options are limited. Over the last month, we have been trying to get the right answers as to what is happening with regard to the introduction of a new system of social rights, the new decision-making and the allocation of social assistance that should be provided by 1. 1. 2012 transferred to social work centres. In this respect, as we know, nothing is happening yet, so we are rightly concerned, as he pointed out in the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, already a colleague, Mr Presečnik. The Ministry has yet to answer its specific questions about the introduction of the new system. I reiterate that many new injustices can be caused if the state fails to carry out the necessary tasks in accordance with the new legislation in a timely manner or if we have to adopt a second extension of the new laws, of course in a timely manner. I would also like to point out that, in the field of child rights, we still do not have the regulated defence of children's rights, which has been introduced by the Ombudsman in cooperation with NGOs and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs since 2006. With regard to the problem of spatial distress of children in kindergartens, however, the State bears responsibility for the competent municipalities and does not provide the municipalities with adequate resources. "With regard to the functioning of the rule of law, we can be very concerned at the conclusion that it is not possible to deny the suspicion of bribery of judicial experts." I quote in the report. "From some of the matters that we have dealt with in the Ombudsman, there is no convincing denying that experts have been bribed for their opinion. In some cases, complaints were also made in this regard," the end of the quote. Several cases in this mandate show that these suspicions have been confirmed. In the field of environment and space, a number of comments and complaints were made by individuals who mainly referred to poor opportunities to participate in the adoption of spatial acts, to object to the construction of municipal waste landfills, to the issue of water land and water permits, to problems related to light pollution, to IPPC permits and environmental permits for installations and to environmental pollution. In short, much more could be left to civil initiatives and local communities, as everyone knows the situation better in his/her environment, but they should decentralise the state administration and, above all, provide sufficient resources from European funds, from which Slovenia unfortunately acquired insufficient resources in this mandate to alleviate social pressures and development in rural areas. I therefore support the Ombudsman's warnings that our country must in fact become a legal and social state again, that this will not only be written down and that this is not actually done in life. Dear Guardian of Human Rights, I wish you to continue your successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Obviously, time is on us because we have to finish this debate in a few minutes, so I will try to be very brief. In any case, it is not possible to conclude this debate in any other way than to express all recognition to the Ombudsman and to her fellow workers, the Office of the Ombudsman, for such a comprehensive report, for such a thorough report and for a report which is, of course, extremely sensitive to the smallest bits, if I say so, concerns and problems affecting our citizen and citizen or person and people at all. Also, proposals and recommendations cannot be assessed in a different way than they are appropriate and show that they are accepted and welcomed. Now the only question I'm asking is, with 43 employees, it's probably really hard to do all this work, which this report also shows. In doing so, I am already wondering whether it also shows that we should think after so many years of the existence of this institution and this institution, so that we may consider the powers of the Ombudsman. In fact, somehow a person gets a feeling and an unwitting comparison with the Constitutional Court, which we have already established in the Constitution a very large number of powers, and then we have found that all these powers cannot be realized because of this number of competences, in fact, the presence of the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that something similar occurs with the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. The report is, of course, so rich that it should be read by all the government ministers, all the government officials who operate on these departments, but the whole range of things is one that should actually be done by these departments. I have always imagined that the Ombudsman will be advertising in particular where there will actually be a lot of drinking problems in the sky, although, as it is said, this warning of even smaller things is of course very useful. It seems to me that somehow, if I compare the reports of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights every time, it would suggest that we think more in this direction, to expose the most problematic things. Thus, the guardian would not be lost in detail, and so would those warnings that would have come from the guardian’s side would have been somehow more noticeable in the public eye than some have now. That's how I picture it. However, this report is also of course a very important contribution to raising people's awareness, and in this regard I would also like to point out and say that I do not agree that it closes the centre of the Council of Europe in Slovenia. It seems to me that this centre has carried out some of these tasks very intensively, that people have become accustomed to getting relevant information from the field of human rights and the protection of these, and that it is, in fact, irrational to remove something that has already been very well established. I have talked about the recommendations and said that it is the power to agree with everyone, but there are some such recommendations when one wonders whether it is true that they come from the place of the Ombudsman, when it is clear that this should be done by those who are competent. One such recommendation is, for example, regarding police procedures, which says: "Varuh again recommends that police officers in relation to a person in the process are always correct, including in contacts at the verbal level, and police procedures are legal." So, the guardian recommends that police procedures be legal. Yes, of course! With this example, I actually wanted to show that perhaps some good time has come, that we need to think about where this emergency energy should be directed and not allow ourselves and allow ourselves to have a situation where this energy is actually being dissolved in some way. Since this report goes to all times of social life and since it is also written that way, the impression of remaining the most important things somehow in the background or not exposed enough and not observable is created. Otherwise, as I say, all recognition and congratulations on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u106	In view of the session's timing, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. I'd like to suggest a minute's rest before we begin on the 1st item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government, the distinguished ministers and ministers. Let's get back to work. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 29 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first two questions of the opposition member and the coalition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The following should follow the replies to the questions raised at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, but they will not answer these questions because of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food's excused absence. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Mr Mag. Mr Dejan Židan Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Mr Franz Križanič, Minister for Finance, Mr Dorijan Marušič, Minister for Health, Mr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport and Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first two questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. First, he will be asked by the opposition Members by Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers! The mandate of the government has expired and Parliament has expired in these days. The time is coming for us to draw the line and evaluate the results of our work. In this mandate, we have faced the biggest financial and economic crisis in the history of our young country. Nevertheless, the government has managed to maintain social peace and the level of social rights at such a level in these difficult times that most citizens and citizens of this crisis do not feel as much as they could otherwise. We have made this confession public to you many times. Much less, according to my assessment, and little attention from the government under your leadership has been given to the economy, its start-up, its new jobs, the removal of administrative barriers, the improvement of the business environment and could also be listed. At this point, I can argue that, in fact, at the expense of maintaining current social peace and a high social standard, the possibility of maintaining social peace and social justice in the medium and long term has been compromised. Unfortunately, this social peace has been maintained at the expense of debt. This way we can do it for a short time, a year or two, and then it will be over. We'll be in debt to the limits allowed, and then we'll just run out of funds. They'll be gone for all of them. And that, Mr. President of the Government, is certainly not good. In recent times we have witnessed the growth of the Slovenian economy, unfortunately this is only due to the improvement of the climate in countries where Slovenian companies export most. This is certainly not due to the economic policy of this country. Even more. Slovenian export indicators are worse than those of comparable countries, which is confirmed by the fact that we do not have an appropriate economic policy in Slovenia. Mr President, I'm interested in: How do you assess the success of this mandate's government economic policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u109	To be honest, I estimate bias. I don't think the situation is great. I don't think it's a failure. I estimate it's satisfactory. In short, we leave behind the potential that gives the new government, whoever will lead this government, the possibility of taking Slovenia forward. This does not apply to all countries in the European Union. Before I answer your question, let me also remember, and in this assessment, I remain that the economic crisis that we came into along with the so-called global recession was not the fault of the previous government. But I have to list some numbers that go back a long way from the previous government to make it clear what the state of Slovenia got at the end of 2008 to make it clear how difficult it was then to get from a negative 8.2 drop in GDP in 2009 to an economic growth rate of 1.5. Since 2002, to go far back when we had 247 million euros in surplus abroad, by 2008, we have processed almost 2.3 billion, which is 6% of the GDP deficit. From 2004 to 2008, gross external debt increased by 155 %, from 15 to 39 billion. As a result of the decrease in tax rates in 2005, and in particular in 2007, Slovenia lost 91 million revenues or 2.6 GDP in 2009 and in 2011, the deficit rate increased to 2.7 GDP per year as a result of this reform. Why do I say that the previous government is not to blame in this sense? It was not possible, like any other economy in the world and no policy in the world, to foresee the end of this high conjuncture and that it would be such a deep down into recession. These were the formulas for the conjuncture we witnessed, but when the recession came, she turned everything upside down. And this situation came to me with my colleagues. We had to react immediately, of course. We have adopted two sets of measures aimed at the financial sector, the economy and the public sector. The anti-crisis measures by which the government mitigated the effects of the global crisis and maintained social cohesion in the first year of its mandate were upgraded at the beginning of 2010 with an exit strategy. We have pursued three key long-term objectives: to increase the competitiveness of the economy and to ensure development priorities. In part, we succeeded, not as much as we wanted, partly because of the failed reforms. Not just because of the collapse of reforms, but because of the atmosphere created by the fact that referendums can block reforms. The social partners were given a weapon to immediately put the government in a position: if not ours, there will be a referendum. And this blocked the further reform policy to ensure long-term stability of public finances and, of course, to preserve social cohesion. I'm glad you noticed that correctness. After all, you know, this crisis, which we are now witnessing in the future, because the wild financial industry was not under control at the end of the recession, thinking that the recession is over and that we can work our way forward, has led to new problems on the world market and has led to longer economic recovery, we have today before the Ljubljana stock exchange of people protesting against it and around the world. They are protesting social injustice. In Slovenia, income inequality is among the lowest in the European Union, and this contributes little to the fact that, as much as our people are disappointed about the situation, they know that social differences are not too great. Since I'm sure you'll ask me one more question, I'll be able to continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. My assessment is that, however, these formulas you've been talking about should have been amended better. And this return all the time, and we have witnessed this virtually entire mandate in the National Assembly, returning to the previous term and even to the mandates, I don't know how long ago, actually leads nowhere. You took power at the time, and it was your job and responsibility to change things. If the previous government or the previous government had done something or if I didn't know which one was wrong, it had to be changed. Like an on-call doctor who comes to work and takes over from his predecessor, examines all patients, and if he finds out that the previous doctor has done something wrong, he has to and is obliged to change it. But according to my assessment, what was crucial, which was not done, would be necessary, is uncompromising saving, respected, President of the Government, of the entire public sector. Not that we don't hear one example of what I've shaken up, the Brdo protocol facility buys a Persian carpet for 150 000 euros. At the time of the biggest crisis, we buy the Persian carpet for 150 000 euros for the protocol. During the presidency, all the political European cream gathered there, and we were able to do so without this Persian carpet. Effective fight against corruption and economic crime and restoring confidence in an effective rule of law. This is where we failed the exam. This trust is simply gone. If you look at all the public surveys, what is the confidence of people in the Slovenian legal state, you will see that this is a disaster and a breakdown. I'm sorry I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Borut Pahor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u113	So what did we do? The Act on the Prevention of Delays in Payments, which has cut into payment non-discipline. Amendments to the Public Procurement Act which prevent the possible performance of subcontractors and subcontractors. With intervention law, we have kept at least 22,000 jobs. Despite the increase, we have maintained our unemployment rate at a relatively envious level and remain in the first third of the countries. We have doubled the funding for an active employment policy from 183 million to 369. Additional resources were provided to the Bank’s SID to provide financial support to successful economic projects. In 2010, the Bank granted twice as many loans as in 2008, EUR 840 million. We have reduced the deadlines for VAT refunds and allocated surpluses to the economy. We have increased tax incentives for investments in small and micro-enterprises. With incentives for a small economy, 2 000 509 investment and development projects amounting to close to EUR 200 million were supported, creating more than 3 000 new jobs and increasing the added value of the employee by 14.3%. In order to ensure the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, more than €649 million were awarded in 2008–2011 and more than €5 000 800 projects were approved. We have put in place specific development incentives for breakthroughs to new markets and have paid subsidies for technology centres for research and development of €64 million. Public investment in R & D increased significantly during the government's mandate, by 47% in 2009 compared to the previous year and by around 20% in 2010. In this mandate, we have significantly improved the use of EU funds. As early as 2008, we had a net negative situation; we had to invest €65 million in the EU budget. Now we're a net receiver. Since 2010, we have absorbed €327 million net from the EU. The latest data for this year relate to the first three quarters and we are the net recipient of EUR 244 million from the budget. The amount is expected to be increased to 461 by the end of this year. From 2008 to 2010, we significantly improved the external trade balance as, for example, the current balance of payments account deficits decreased by EUR 2 billion. Thus, our economy no longer needs to be in charge of financing the external trade deficit. In our mandate, we have also successfully managed inflation, which is more than half lower than the average of the European Union and much lower than the average of the euro area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. On the part of the coalition members, Mr Mag will raise the question to the President of the Government. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, my question concerns the organisation of the government and public administration in the future. In these three years of hard and hard work, you have certainly gained a lot of experience both positive and negative. Those who, at this point in the opposition, are calling for a vote, are thinking about abolishing the ministry's agencies, reducing public administration employment by more than 30% and so on. But statistics and comparisons with European countries are clear here, Slovenia is somewhere in the middle, Scandinavian states for public administration are spending more gross social product than we, some neighbouring countries, say Germany, as well as less. It seems important to us to say that we are thinking about the public sector and deciding rationally that this is an important and necessary segment of this society. Our thinking – the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, where we have set ourselves a simple country for the future in the interests of Slovenia, with fewer ministries. Many governments have already talked about it, and none have succeeded. What do you think, based on the experience of three-year management, of what kind of government, with what number of ministries is optimal for dealing with problems in the next term? We programmed our target of 8 ministries, with the following content: the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Freedom and Security, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Promotion and Identity, the Ministry of Quality of Life and the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs. There is certainly a reflection on the reduction in the number of government services, including the reduction in the amount of resources needed to work. On the other hand, we want and you will probably share our view that public sector reform is needed, with a focus on organisational and structural changes in public institutions, including public agencies and public funds, as well as a change in the public sector's salary system, in order to stimulate, stimulate those more efficient, more successful. I am sure that the work in recent years has also provided some answers. What desires, what public administration, what government, what ministries do you think this country would need for the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, this will be my opinion. It is the matter of the new mandate-holder to decide how he will learn things from his point of view. However, let me tell you that we have tried for two years to do what we have called the modernisation of the public administration and that, as the outcome of this experiment, we would also recommend with our experience a new government law that takes into account the reduction in the number of ministries. However, I think it is the right and duty of the new mandate-holder to then form a government at his discretion, as he thinks he will do his job well. What is my experience and experience in my cabinet is that it makes sense to bring the ministries together when business processes are redefined. This means simplifying them and eliminating duplication of tasks. On this basis, a new internal organisational structure is being established, and this adjusted human resources occupation – both by number and by competence. It is therefore important to count on the implementation of the reorganisation to reach redundant workers in certain areas for which there will be no room in the state administration. Regardless of the number of ministries, centralisation should be ensured in order to reduce costs and increase quality, a second experience, centralising certain functions at the level of the entire state administration without exception. These tasks include at least the execution of public contracts, real estate management, information support and human resources functions. There is a need to ensure that the third experience, the centralisation of so-called ministerial support tasks, irrespective of the independence of the bodies in the composition, is ensured. Similarly, the centralisation of support tasks should also be ensured for agencies, such as the common direction for all agencies in the country. I advocate a concept where ministries will combine tasks related to the design of the system or the design of individual policies. As you know, we have introduced a programme budget within the mandate of this government, and I think it would be useful to organise ministries according to the formula of the programme budget. Reducing the number of ministries makes sense if they combine substantively related and interlinked areas. I will tell you how, if I had the opportunity to form a new government, through rationalisation under previous conditions, I think that I would work even more effectively: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the Ministry of Technology and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Research, the Ministry of Health, Work, Family and Social Protection and the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture. This is linked to our decision to draw up a programme budget and thus to create the work of ministries. But let me say, the question is how long will the new mandate holder have to consult coalition partners on this option if he wants to rationalise the government in terms of the number of ministries before he starts working. The expectations of the public towards the new government are extremely high. I think they're unrealistic. They're extremely tall. It will take quick work, and this will not be possible if it becomes more complicated with the preparation of the government law. So, without, of course, advising, but at the very least, sending the brains of anyone who comes after me, it is likely that, as it is, it will be necessary to start and then speed up some of the processes that we have already started, to lay down these preconditions and then to reduce the number of ministries within the mandate of the new government. That would be my suggestion, my advice to the one coming after me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic, you want a refill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. You have done honorable, demanding, honest, and responsible work. That was your last answer in this term. I'm happy with the answer. I wish you a great deal of personal satisfaction, progress and, as in the public domain, work for the good and benefit of all the citizens and citizens of this country, and, frankly, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u121	On my behalf and on behalf of colleagues, ministers and ministers, those who are with me today, those who have been with me for the last three years, I would like to thank the National Assembly for the level of debate we have witnessed. I have been in this Chamber since 1990, as some of you have, and I have been able to monitor the development of a culture of dialogue. I think there are things that we can be proud of, not that any of us do not escape, not that there is ever a word out of place, but when I compare the level of culture of dialogue at the beginning and today, I see that we are becoming one mature democracy. Dialogue, honesty, openness, criticism, sometimes it may still be too harsh a word, but it is a matter of taste, but there are no more insults and remarks that do not belong to this high assembly. I wish you as much good as possible, both in private and in public, and thank you, President, for your participation in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President Borut Pahor. The SDS MPs and indeed have not addressed any questions to the President of the Government. As I have already mentioned, the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 31st meeting of the assembly are due to Mr Mag's excused absence. Dejana Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Transition, and Mr Marusic, Minister for Health, will not be. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr Franci Kek asked the Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. [[He's not here.]] Mr Samo Bevk asked the Minister of Transport, Mr Patrick Vlačič, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Rok Žarnic. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President. Although the government's mandate is running out, I have nevertheless decided to ask the Transport and Environment Ministers a question. I also addressed my last question to the Minister of Transport in 2004-2008, which was then mag. Radovan Žerjav, the topic is very similar: modernisation of transport infrastructure in the area of the fourth development axis. This time, my question is going this way. The Transport Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note at its meeting on 30 September in the framework of its powers and on the basis of the available material with the proposed solutions to the State Spatial Plan for State Road R1-210 at Cerkno-Hotavlje and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 10 June 2010, by which the Government agrees that the procedures for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan shall continue in accordance with the proposal for the most appropriate alternative solution, namely the North Two variants. I ask Minister Patrick Vlačič and Minister Rok Žarnic: What activities have they initiated since the Transport Committee meeting regarding the continuation of the preparation of the State Spatial Plan? I'm also interested in: Have you already ordered the creation of an idea project for the selected North 2 version? Why did I ask this question just before the end of this term? Also because the nature of this work is such, it is said to be operational that, regardless of whether a government is on its way out and another on its way out, the professional services of both ministries, regardless of the elections, regardless of the composition of the new government, are preparing the professional bases and all necessary for the State Spatial Road Plan within the fourth development axis linking Northern Primorska to Gorenjska, is called the link between the Church and Hotalja.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you, President. We had an in-depth debate on the Transport Committee and with the proposed solutions to the State Spatial Plan, the North 2 version was the most appropriate, but the investment is the most unfavourable, not reaching the recommended economic eligibility. There are also different opinions from two local communities, on the one hand Gorenje village and on the other side of the Church, which rejects this option as unacceptable. Given that the proposed solution is most appropriate in terms of spatial and environmental terms, I believe that we can continue the proposed route, provided that a meaningful optimisation of spatial arrangements is carried out, on the basis of which the eligibility of the project will be more acceptable. In addition, a consensus of local communities must be obtained in the course of the procedure; otherwise, such construction is not meaningful. There are no funds in this year's budget for the continuation of the preparation of the professional basis, in this case an idea project. I hope that the possible rebalancing for 2012 will ensure this and that the preparation of the State Spatial Plan can continue. It cannot continue until further notice. The successful completion of the project is conditional on no reduction or withdrawal of funds for NRPs for 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk alone, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question was also addressed to the Minister for Environment and Space. I wonder if Minister Roko Žarnic has any comment on this matter. There's something else I'd like to say. It is true that this section is extremely financially demanding, but we will only be able to assess the real value of this project once we have an idea project. At this stage, we can only assess the value of a project in an approximate manner. However, the actual value will only be shown when an idea project is drawn up. In addition, the investment value of the project should be fully considered. Not only that few kilometers long section, which is the most expensive on the entire section, but the entire route, it is said, is the route from Robič, from the border with Italy to Želen, where this leg of the fourth development axis is divided into the Idrija-logic leg, which ends in Logatco on the highway and the church-mountain leg, which ends in Škofja Loka. If we show the project in the public only on these few kilometres between Cerkni and Hotavlja that it is so financially demanding and it is not justified then, it seems to me that this is an unfair deception to the public. That's what I explained on the board. I think that this project and the value of this project should be assessed on the whole route. Nevertheless, I think that we should proceed with this project as soon as possible and secure resources in the State Spatial Plan. I mean, I don't know if the right answer has been written to Mr. Minister that there are also items that are [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I don't have much to add. As has already been said, the DN is preparing and the next step has been to order an idea project, as has already been heard. The Road Directorate is the one who has to order this idea project. When this project is ready, our ministry will be able to continue its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will ask Mr Justice Minister Aleš Zalar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! One trial in the Patria case is closed in the first instance. Former Minister Karel Erjavec and former Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army, General Albin Gutman, are politically and professionally most responsible for the international invitation to tender for the purchase of eight-wheelers, were acquitted of the charges. In his explanation for the judgment, the judge said: "If Slovenia had bought worse armoured personnel, political and military damage could have occurred, but we certainly cannot talk about budgetary damage." Both have also repeatedly stated that neither the Government nor the then Prime Minister, Janez Janša, have cooperated or decided at any stage of the call. This is also confirmed by all available government and other documents. Nevertheless, a court procedure was initiated against former Prime Minister Janša, in which it is clear to the accused in the proposal that he accepted the promise of payment in an undetermined place. Although it is not clear that direct property damage has occurred, which under the CAP is the basis for the lawyer's participation in the trial before the District Court, there are two lawyers involved. In addition, I would remind you of the ruling of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, which stated in Case I Kp 1050/2004, "the determination of the injured person is based on the causal link between the offence and the violation or threat of his property or personal rights, which is directly damaged by the offence and is the subject or holder of any rights which is infringed or threatened". Then the matter is clear. But I'm asking the following question: Is there, in this case, Patricia, a trial against Janša, but is there any concrete claim of property, and what kind of claim is it? The offence described in the public indictment proposal does not give rise to any evidence of material injury, which would constitute a basis for the presence or participation of the defence at the trial under the applicable legal regime. On the basis of whose instructions do attorneys work? What state authority do attorneys report to on the Patrio case? What kind of procedural actions are advocates carrying out? On what basis are two lawyers present in the trial at the lowest level of justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. You have already raised this same question, honourable Member, and have also received an answer to it. Nevertheless, I will repeat what is said in this answer. I'll do it again by taking him. Explain first. The Ministry of Justice, because you have addressed this issue to me, is not the competent ministry that could issue any guidance to the State Defence and would not issue it in the matter you are asking. The competent ministry is the Ministry of Defence. So you have asked this question to an inappropriate minister, and I will continue to answer you, even though I have already answered you in writing. This question of the representation of the State defence in criminal proceedings is linked to the decision of the court. The Court was the one who called on the State to participate in the trial as a potential victim in this case. On the basis of this invitation, a competent lawyer or lawyer shall then attend this hearing in accordance with the Law on State Defence. It is therefore a normal procedure when it is assessed that the State could be a victim. Whether the state is injured or not, the court will decide. The State has the right to notify a property claim, the State has the right to propose, in the context of a criminal court decision, evidence to prove the facts of this property claim, but not perhaps evidence of the defendants' guilt. This is a matter of another competent authority, the State Prosecutor's Office, which is in charge of this procedure. Such a procedure is absolutely nothing out of the ordinary. Public defenders represent property claims in a number of court proceedings. I'd like to fix you up a little bit. As you mentioned in the introduction the proceedings that were or are still ongoing against former Defence Minister Erjavc, this case is not closed, according to my information. According to my information, an appeal was lodged in this case, which is why the conclusions you are drawing from the decision so far, the conclusions based on an unlawful court decision and in this respect are at least premature. The Ministry of Justice in this case cannot give any concrete answer to this question because it is not a competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have not answered that written question of mine, either, because you are not competent. So we just figure out why I'm asking again. I read to you in the introduction what the judge said in the first degree. He said we can't talk about budget damage. I want to know: Why does this procedure actually run in this way if the Minister of Defence also distances herself from the provisional order of the State Defence against Rotis and Patrio? Who, then, is the competent State authority that directs the work of the defence in this particular judicial procedure? Who's that? The Ministry of Defense, which has distanced itself from this? Is that the government? Is that someone else? Is this going on in some secret way or some other way? In view of the fact that the State gives guidance through the Office of the Defence, we cannot avoid the fact that it is a political and not a criminal process, that the judicial process through the Office of the Defence is directed by the Government or the Minister of State, that is to say, the Minister of Defence, or any other minister responsible for justice and home affairs. And here, if this is how these things happen, Minister-respected, it is an unacceptable policy intervention in an independent judiciary. And unfortunately, both Attorney General Fisher and the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Masles, allow this to happen. And one more thing. In the Satex case, where the injury was actually found, there was no legal action in many other procedures where the State was actually injured. discussions. And that's actually a controversial fact. The judge concludes that there is no material injury, no injury and that they are defence attorneys in the Satex case, the reverse story, the damage actually occurred and there were no lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Jože Tanko. Mr. Minister Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u137	Yeah, that's the conversation of the deaf. I told you, honourable Member. The Ministry of Defence is responsible for giving appropriate guidance to the State Defence in this matter you are asking. You must therefore address all questions concerning this case to the competent minister sitting here with me. I'm afraid you didn't do it. I can't help you solve this problem. The Justice Ministry is not involved in this procedure, nor is there any legal basis for it to be included. And that's all I can say about this matter, besides what I've told you. The answer to your written question, which points to the same subject, has been received from the records of our ministry days ago. And I'm not gonna take him here again because I've already introduced him. But when you talk about the Satex case, as far as I know, the Satex case was an acquittal, but it's not legal. That's all I know, and I don't have any other information on this. The Ministry of Justice was also not invited to cooperate in any way with any direction on this matter. Otherwise, criminal proceedings in Slovenia are not conducted according to policy decisions or expectations, but according to the decisions of the state prosecutors. They're completely on their own. And it is right that they follow the principle that they are not untouchable in this country, whether they are politicians, economists or ordinary citizens. The same rules apply to all. This is the essence of the principle of equality before the law, the State Prosecutor's Office must respect it and I expect it to respect it in all matters, in all concrete cases, even in what you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, would you like to make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, it won't stay like this in the air. I have put a written question on the issue of the role of the defence in this matter. You have said in some way that you are not competent, that you are responsible and that this cannot go through your ministry, so I also asked an oral question. The Ministry of Defence has distanced itself from this process. The secretary's sitting next to you, she can confirm that. You're saying that the competent ministry that directs the defence department in this matter is the Ministry of Defence. If the Ministry of Defence has disassociated itself, it is unlikely that this is not a competent ministry that cooperates and gives instructions to this defence. I'm afraid that's not true. And one more thing. You have also not answered the question of what processes are being carried out by state attorneys or who are being reported to. These are the basics I asked. And you haven't explained why there are two state attorneys in this process. The same goes for that written question I got. And I'm sorry that ministers, governments or anyone in this way say the answers are arrogant and leave things in the air. In this case, Minister Zalar, with respect, we cannot avoid the fact that by giving instructions or guidance to the Attorney-General of the State, that is what the State authority that initiated the case – the Ministry of Defence is probably not because it is obviously not – that it also directs the proceedings in this work. And then it's no longer a substantive process here, but it's a political account with a political opponent, with a political competitor, in a way that has not been found anywhere in this case file, in fact, no material damage to the state. Even the first-degree judge, and I said that at the first stage the process was completed, explicitly in the sentence of the judgment, said that there was no such property damage to the state. There is a series of open questions that no one wants to give any specific answer, no relevant answer. I think that the conduct of the State in these cases is in fact totally inappropriate. Ministers, if you are, then these things should be answered in concrete terms, but not wrapped up for some kind of speech and proformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u140	Mr. Jože Tanko, you didn't make a procedural proposal. You are an experienced Member, and you know that you have abused the rules of procedure. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Rok Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! In the past, I have highlighted the importance of the construction of high-water embankments on the left bank of Drava, between Maribor and Ptuj, to ensure the flood safety of the inhabitants of Duplek and the surrounding areas. Last time I asked you about this subject was in March. The construction of this embankment has been delayed for decades and more. Your predecessor had already promised that the building permit would be obtained in early 2010, you said this January that the procedure for obtaining the building permit was still under way, and in March you said that land was currently being purchased, that appropriate projects were being prepared documentation to select applicants for the acquisition of funds from the Cohesion Fund, etc. You have foreseen the completion of the works for 2013 and the acquisition of the Cohesion Fund for the end of this year. In short, only the promises that the inhabitants of the places that lie at this part of Drava have been heeding for decades. I'm afraid it'll be another year or more for these people when they hear the promises and at the same time tremble at the threat of the flood. So, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in the following: Is the timing of the construction project of the embankment on the left bank of Drava between Vurberk and Duplek the same as you gave me in response to my question which I asked you at the 26th regular session of March this year? Has a legal building permit already been obtained for this project? Has the Cohesion Fund already acquired funds for this project? At the March session you also did not answer some of my questions, so I repeat them here. Can your ministry or the Environment and Space Inspectorate take action against the Drava Power Plants, which, as a result of the construction of the Zlatoličje power plant under the principle of "the originator pays", be obliged to ensure adequate passages across the Drava River? The Vurberk Bridge to the Congregation of Parents is still not built. However, Dravo power plants obtained a water management permit in 1964. How many times a year are watercourses monitored and by whom? What are the criteria on the basis of which the Ministry of Environment and Space prepares an annual programme of maintenance works on watercourses? What are the procedures for the conduct of the ministry or the public service provider in the event of a flood? Why don't you get a warrant to clean up the watercourses?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr Environment and Space Minister Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! I must say, the procedures we explained at the March session are ongoing. It is planned to make an application for cohesion funds by the end of the year, which is December 2011, and procedures for building rights are under way to issue a building permit. I agree with you that time was late, because when we prepared these things, I was also surprised at what happened between 2005 and 2009. In 2009 and 2010, procedures began to take place intensively and the delays that we have acquired for five years, unfortunately we cannot get under the roof in this mandate. The PGD and PZI project documentation is produced and also reviewed, the project is in the process of obtaining environmental consent and land is also acquired. A legal building permit has not yet been obtained, as at the ILO, an application has not yet been submitted to the construction sector to obtain a construction permit for the construction of the embankment on the left bank of Drava between Vurberk and Duplek. The role, as I have learned, will be filed by the end of the year. The cohesion fund cannot yet be made available because this basic documentation is not prepared and an application for the Cohesion Fund is being made. According to our deadlines, this role should be such that funds will be provided for the period 2012-2015. In parallel with these actions I have been talking about, ongoing activities are also taking place to prepare tender documentation for implementation. From what I've said, it's probably clear to you that during my ministry, there were attempts to catch hands, delays that remained in the five-year period, and I don't think major miracles can be done. In the construction inspection procedures, this is the answer to the question, because the last time was not the time for the construction of the bridge and the high-water embankment to take place. There is also no reason to act as a construction inspector. The construction inspector can't give someone a job to do something about, so there are other instruments that go beyond the powers of our ministry and that's probably something we need to talk about somewhere else. The monitoring of watercourses is carried out regularly through the concessionaire under the programme, which, in the case of specific problems that are brought to the attention of citizens or stakeholders, also responds and here attempts to do the most in the context of the funds allocated each year for this purpose. The first priority is to maintain first-order outflows, then maintain water infrastructure, maintain water and coastal land where housing is directly threatened, and maintain water and coastal land where housing is indirectly threatened. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Slovenia is leading the first activity prior to the flood. The concessionaire who performs the public service shall then, by his or her professional tasks, carry out measures at a time when the risk of water damage is increased, as well as after the floods. Maintenance works, as already mentioned, shall be carried out in accordance with the annual programme, in accordance with the means. However, I must say, and I would take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that in the rebalances that will be adopted next year, there was extremely little money in this area and I would appeal to those of you who will come to this house to try to fight for as much money as possible to manage watercourses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Fishych, would you like to complete the answer? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. If I wasn't afraid of the people at Drava who were facing a disaster, I'd probably feel sorry for you. I believe that in these months, since I last asked you a question on this subject, something big could not have happened. However, I am already asking myself how it is possible that nothing has moved in the three years since I am a Member and I point out the problem of building this embankment. When I decided to run for the National Assembly, with the desire that in the environment from which I come, what I help to do, I help prevent disaster – in three years only the promises of one, another, third! In my view, such behaviour is a clear example of the inoperability of the competent institutions, and I am not only referring to the Ministry of Environment and Space. How else can I understand that when three years of warning of specific problems and countless promises to solve things and that the construction of the embankment is just outside the door, nothing has happened. If, as a member of the National Assembly alone, I have not managed to move anything, I wonder how it feels to be an ordinary citizen who is fighting against a state apparatus really like a windmill in the wind. Here I can mention, for example, concessions for small hydroelectric plants, where investors have been waiting for years, despite the countless assurances that you, Mr Minister-respected, have given a colleague of the Presecnik to strengthen the environmental authority to enable them to be dealt with more quickly. Nothing happened. And so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I just want to say something. I deny that anything happened. Nothing happened between 2005 and 2009. Look, at the time of my ministry, what I said happened, and construction doesn't just mean mud and shovels, but also preparation. If I got the things ready in my mandate, the ones I had to do because of the delay and the mistakes I made, the machines would roll. In small power plants, the biggest delays occurred again from 2005 to 2009. He blames himself for the skeletons I inherited. I wish the next minister better luck, because I'm leaving a better legacy than I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u150	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u153	I want a debate to be held on this subject at some point in the National Assembly, of course, on the basis of a certain article. But I would also like to add that I cannot believe that it is just an excuse for what the predecessor did and what the predecessor did not do. I have been in the National Assembly for three years now, but I have heard what the predecessors are supposed to do or not, but I am interested in what we have done now. There's been a lot of talk about success. I was glad when the new minister came to this ministry, because the former minister spoke and spoke and spoke to the previous ones – unfortunately you have inherited this little from him, that you also use these words. That's not good. We need to start working, and we need to get our jobs moving. That is why I would like such a discussion to be held in the National Assembly again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much. There will be no debate, you know that. But as for the other part, I forgive you for this is the last time. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. [[She's not here.]] Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the question of the Member of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. The minister's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask the Minister to answer me in writing. In September 2011, the Ministry of Education and Sport issued a call for the co-financing of the E-Competitive Teachers project in bilingual schools. On the basis of this call, the Ministry of Education earmarked 1 million for the development of e-constructions for only 8 Slovenian-Hungarian bilingual schools. In the meantime, the Ministry of Education and Sport sent over 600 Slovenian primary and secondary schools in July 2011, informing schools that in 2011 they will not receive any funds for teaching and teaching aids and for teacher education. The question is why 1 million euro in the tender is intended only for use in mixed Slovenian-Hungarian bilingual schools and why it is not envisaged for Italian schools and not for all other language Slovenian schools that need additional money for teacher education. The tender not only favours Hungarian schools but also favours the contractor by the Hungarian Nationality Community, since it provides that only the applicant who ensures the consent of the five bilingual schools can apply for the invitation to tender. The call does not provide that schools are active in the project, but that the call only provides for the consent of schools. It is said that the Hungarian National Community, which co-founds bilingual schools, has banned bilingual school principals from giving their consent to other potential applicants for the invitation to tender. We must give our consent to the institution, the founder of which is the Hungarian national community. The question is: Is the invitation to tender designed to be carried out only by members of the Hungarian Nationality Community and subcontractors who comply with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u156	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. It will raise the question of the matter by letter to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Chairman, Honourable Minister Zalar! We have recently witnessed quite a few reverberating affairs based on misinformation by the criminal police. As a result of this incorrect information, both the communication privacy of the individual and the introduction of the forecasting procedure have been intervened. It is understandable that the criminal police must verify the suspicions of reported crimes, but it is not understandable that the police do not first convince the credibility of the information or anonymous complaints provided and verify the personal inclinations of persons who submit such information or complaints with the most precise purpose. The consequences of such malicious information or complaints may be very severe for an individual, and he may suffer the loss of his family himself, and many times the loss of employment and income may also occur. In society, such a person is branded and marginalised. The argument that each individual is subjectively responsible for the false accusation and that for that reason he can do what he wants, even by profaning someone's good name, thus this argument does not hold up enough. Dear Minister Zalar, I am interested in the following: What internal control mechanisms does the criminal police have in assessing the data received, especially in the data received by criminal police officers personally? In how many cases did the criminal police check the background of the information that was later proved unfounded in the investigation process? Is it professionally justified that predictive procedures are initiated on the basis of rumours, referring to basic unverified data, which is, for example, merely referred to in some context? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u158	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must disappoint you a little, because your question was so general that it was not nearly possible to determine where you were going, and of course I cannot give you statistics. You asked me about a number of cases. Of course, that's statistics. I can only answer in general to you how it is with regard to supervision, both internal and external. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when it comes to initiating procedures that may affect fundamental human rights, i.e. those which are guaranteed by our constitution – here I have in particular the right to privacy, including communication privacy, and these are usually those that are somehow the most likely to strike. This often makes an individual feel the most affected. So in all these cases, when it comes to this kind of intervention, the police aren't on their own. The police can't do anything on their own. The police always need either the decision of the state prosecutor or even the court, depending, of course, on the type of measure under consideration. So here's the answer to your basic question where control is: control is in the judicial system, either in the judiciary or in the state prosecutor's office. In addition, in all cases where the police carry out their activities in accordance with the law, they are usually given very precise guidance by the competent State prosecutor, which is applicable in all cases, not only to those where they could interfere with fundamental human rights. Nevertheless, the police have a special system of internal control, which takes place on two key routes: within the police and within the Ministry itself, where a special Directorate is organised, which deals with nothing other than by monitoring the correctness and timeliness of carrying out police tasks at a fully specific operational level. This Directorate for Police and Other Security Tasks is set up specifically to strengthen the role of guarantee even when it comes to the issue of interference with fundamental human rights. And my assessment, since I have played this role as Minister of the Interior, is that this Directorate, which oversees the police, has been doing its work very professionally and very devoted and is also extremely precise. And its findings are dealt with every week in specific colleges and then, of course, also concerned about the implementation of recommendations, sometimes proposing specific measures to the Minister or the Director-General of Police. In short, this internal control system is in place, it works. This does not mean that the system is ideal, that it cannot be improved, that in any case it may not even occur when it turns out that the conduct of the competent authorities has not been optimal. The police, however, are an extremely large system. However, it cannot be agreed that this is a system that is out of control and that is too consistent when it initiates procedures without taking into account the standards provided by our Constitution to everyone; also to those who are in pre-trial or criminal proceedings for suspicion of committing a crime. Therefore, if I withdraw this aspect of internal control, I cannot, of course, go beyond the external control exercised by you, Members of Parliament and Members, even within the framework of the special parliamentary commission carried out by the Ombudsman, which is not ultimately carried out by civil society. In short, there are multiple levels of control, all of which are aimed at ensuring that the police work is properly, legally and in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u160	Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I thank you for this first part of the answer to my questions. But I'm going to make the next one, and I'm going to be a little more specific in this second part. I want to know: Were the rumors really enough for such media-response police activities, which were reflected in detention and house investigations, for example, as it happened with Mr. Kangler and Schihc, Jelinčič, Magajni, Pogačnik? Is it really possible for the police to react solely and solely on the basis of rumors? Can a criminalist write only on the basis of rumours, and in hard form, a crime, it is said, without first checking the credibility and reliability of such information? As President of the National Assembly Commission of Inquiry in the Patrio case, I am 6. Ten. 2011 also interviewed Senior Criminal Inspector Igor Zimić. I was particularly interested in his official note of 11 September 2008. I am saying this because this note was made solely and solely on the basis of rumors. However, it was written in purely hard form. At that time, Mr. criminalist Winterfell claimed that he had written only what he had heard in the note and that he did not claim to be true. Of course – we both know this story – he did not want to give the source of this information and so on. We then addressed you with a request to untie his silence. That didn't happen. But I'm actually interested in: Can the police abuse their powers in such a way that it is only on the basis of rumours that they spill a name and only on the basis of rumors that they solve problems, because it looks like it is a politically motivated process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u162	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your Honor, my answer is no. The police must not abuse powers in any way, not just by referring solely to rumors, nor in any other way. It is very difficult for me to judge these specific cases that you mention — in one part I must not — so I can only be general. However, when you mentioned house investigations against certain persons who are also public individuals, there is no difference in the standard of proof when it comes to the question of a house investigation against someone exercising a public authority or someone who does not. The same rules apply to all. These rules lay down the law. These rules lay down the Constitution. And whether there are sufficient grounds for such an order of the house investigation shall be decided by the courts. That's not up to the police. Therefore, even if the police had relied on certain evidence at an early stage of the procedure, which would have been assessed as a sufficient basis for the house investigation, it is not necessary for the house investigation to take place. And in practice, it happens that the court does not come and that such a proposal to determine the house investigation is also rejected. But if the court orders an investigation, then of course it is not possible to talk about the police abuse the role they play in this proceeding. I think such insinuation would go far too far. I think our police should be trusted. He's got a lot of work to do. In difficult times, the problem of detection of crime may be even more acute. In Slovenia, it is clearly acute, for example, in the area of economic crime. And the police are devoting all their resources to this area, among other things. Various actors are involved in this crime, and some in the public sector are obviously involved. This country deserves to be clarified whether anyone suspected of committing a crime has done so beyond any reasonable doubt; which means that it deserves to be convicted. They're going to judge the courts. Of course, the prosecutor will be responsible for the first control of the police's work. He shall carry out it from the very beginning when giving guidance and later when deciding whether or not to request an investigation or to file a direct accusation. The system is therefore built so that we have internal controls to prevent abuses. Of course, we do not live in an ideal world and it is not possible to rule out any case that shows that in practice the matter takes place differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister of Finance a question. The Minister is excused to be absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to my colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to ask you a question and I'm going to ask you a written answer. In Slovenia several municipalities granted building rights for the construction of various public buildings on the basis of a real law code. In my view, in most cases the municipalities have concluded lease agreements on the basis of which the property right or may be transferred from the lessor to the lessor. In view of the fact that the Public Finance Act does not explicitly state that municipalities have to ask for the consent of the Ministry of Finance – this should be officially regulated by the new Public Finance Act – I ask the Minister: How many buildings were built in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the building right? How many long-term contracts have been concluded and which municipalities have asked for the consent of the Ministry of Finance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u166	Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Member of the Finance Minister Dr. Franc Križanič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I am sorry that there is no minister, because I believe that the question is still relevant and somehow also answers the questions about the state of the country and the state in which that government will leave the country. The fact is that at the beginning of the mandate, at the initiative of this Government, the Republic of Slovenia issued state bonds with three years' duration, which means that the second year will be paid. I am confident that the owners will want to cash these bonds, which are worth 1.2 billion euros. Also the following year, this is 2012, the bank bonds of the New Ljubljana Bank and another private bank amounting to €1.5 billion, will also fall, but with a guarantee of the state. And given the condition of the New Ljubljana Bank and the difficulties it has in providing funds, multiple recapitalisations are needed, we can assume that the New Ljubljana Bank will not be able to service its outstanding liabilities; this amount is worth 1.2 billion. It is therefore reasonably envisaged that a State which is also a guarantor in issuing these bonds will have to help. And if we take into account another bank that also has a loss, these reserves total 2.7 billion euros in maturity for the second year. The budget, the entire budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the second year is about 10 billion there. And given that our country is already operating only through credits to spend €10 million a day on the functioning of this country, the question is seriously raised as to how the country will be able to service €2.7 billion of these bonds that will fall. My question to the Minister is: Where in the budget or elsewhere are these funds reserved, these 2.7 billion euro if these liabilities are cashed out? I must say that, after all the efforts I have had, and after research in the budget and anywhere else, it has not been observed that the State of Slovenia would have reserved these funds. This was not in the state budget. I want to know: Did the government even expect this to happen? In what way will those who have purchased government bonds and bank bonds with a guarantee be able to obtain their money?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u168	Mr Miro Petek will raise the question to the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! We have a nice opportunity because you are in a double role, as a double minister, and you will answer this question more easily. This is an example of a Coroque girl, whom you also communicated on Twitter, and you wrote on Twitter that you should finally find the girl. However, this has not yet happened. Since you said earlier that the police should be trusted, of course I am interested in this case: How much do you trust the Slovenian police? On those days when we had a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, the Deputy Ombudsman, Mr Dolčič, said that it was unacceptable that the police and the prosecution had not done their job or that they had done very little. As Minister, you are probably also familiar with the letter from prosecutor Aleksandra Štiblar, who was the prosecutor in Slovenj Gradc and, among other things, had this case on her desk, now she is the prosecutor in Velenj. In this letter, which she sent to our committee, she laid down some facts about the fact that something was seriously wrong in the Slovenian prosecutor’s office and that the prosecution was not working in the spirit of the profession and apparently not in the spirit of the law. That's why I'm still interested in: What will you do to protect a prosecutor who warns of faults in his own kind, that is, in the prosecution's ranks, not to be subjected to bullying, mobbing or even sanctions? Unlike this prosecutor on TV, Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Fischer has recently said that the prosecution has made no mistakes and that everything is in order in Slovenia. Everything's really fine in this DA's office. Prosecutors and prosecutors walk in slippers, but the files are neatly stacked. And the fact that some notorious cases that have crashed into some strangely blind street are called for surveillance. You are also probably aware that the two Prosecutors of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office have been criminally indicted and, according to some information, the High Prosecutor, Mr Fisher, is also being criminally charged. My question is: By the end of the term of office in this case, what are you going to do to make sure that this will not be another mark of this government, a reputable incompetent government, which is premature from power? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u170	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u171	If I start at the end, what will I do as Minister? I will do everything I can in the context of ongoing business, as well as the Minister of Justice and also as the Minister who is acting as Minister of the Interior. Of course, I have a certain limitations here as Minister. As Minister of Justice, in particular because the State Prosecutor's Office is completely independent in the performance of its functions. The same applies to the police, where, apart from the fact that I have to give general guidance to the police or by law, which I have also done a few days ago, but this relates to the direction of the police at all, in some way to determine priority areas, but not for guidance in specific procedures, so the powers of the minister are terminated. The question is, do I trust the police? I trust the police with full confidence, and I hope that citizens and citizens can trust them with full confidence. We live in a very safe country. If we just look over the border a little bit, we can see a very different situation, significantly more crime, including street crime, including white collar crime. In short, our police care that we are safe as individuals and that our property is safe. When it comes to protecting what is most important, what is most sacred is human life, when it comes to protecting children and their lives and benefits, is the absolute priority of the police and, in fact, of all state authorities, that is something that is in itself reasonable. I doubt there's anyone in this country who doesn't want to find this girl who's been ripped out of her mother's environment for so long. According to the assurances he's given me, the police are doing everything they can to find this little girl. I believe that the police will succeed; I have to believe that as Minister of the Interior. When you ask me about the conduct of the prosecutor who referred to the national working body of the National Assembly by letter, I can only confirm that after this letter came to our ministry, we responded immediately to the Ministry and first requested an explanation from the Attorney General. This informed us that, with regard to the particulars resulting from this letter, the State Prosecutor's Office required certain information from the competent prosecutor's office. These data are still being collected. According to information provided by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, in the coming days there is also a special conversation between the prosecution's leadership and the leadership of the Slovenian prosecutor's office. Obviously, this is all about clearing up some of the open issues arising from a letter from a limited prosecutor who is not working on the Slovenian prosecutor's office anymore. I expect that, as Minister, on the basis of this request addressed to the Attorney General, I will be able to obtain comprehensive information on the findings. This is primarily a matter of profession to self-check the correctness or possible irregularities that have occurred in the handling of a particular case. Only in extreme cases can the supervisory powers conferred by the Minister be exercised and these are limited to matters of the state prosecutor's office. Of course, this now depends on what this first information, which will be provided by the Attorney General, will reveal. In any event, prosecutors are protected under their independence of decision-making, and this protection is guaranteed by law, including the new law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Prosecutors have been given a special remedy by which they can turn to the State Prosecutor's Council and ask it to protect them from any interference with the independence of their decision-making or the independence of their position. This is primarily a new regime, a new means of ensuring that no prosecutor here can intervene in the independence of decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Minister Zalar, I am pleased with your answer, I must admit, especially with this last part. Look, I'm going to quote Mr Fischer's Attorney General of State from his broadcasts Views of Slovenia last week, quote, "with regard to the evidence that the prosecution has not done any professional work, I'm going to tell you that the State Prosecutor's Office has made no professional error in the matter," the end of the quote. Mr Fisher so, ad hoc, without asking himself without doing any controls, says that the prosecution has not committed any professional error. That is why I am pleased with what you have said in response to the question, and I hope that we will be able to resolve this case, especially for the sake of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u174	Dr. Peter Verlich has the word. He will ask the question to the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! In the National Assembly, we have discussed many times about tolling, vinettes, the need for an electronic toll system and what is actually necessary for this country in the field of tolling. All the time that the disintegrated coalition has claimed that guilt is a bad product of the previous Janša government, it actually confirms exactly the opposite, that we are all very satisfied with vignettes. I haven't met one of them before to say that guilt is bad. These are my experiences, and we probably share them all, who drive in free traffic, if we can only remove the toll stations, I tell you that there is no one left to think about anything other than vignettes. Also, the official data shows that even more money has actually been collected, as has actually been projections, which is very good, and if Dars would still have managed economically here and in public procurement at this point, when we know what the construction situation is, to save some euro, I think the money left to pay off the loans would have been more than enough. However, it is concerned that the procedure for an electronic toll system for an invitation to tender, which – at least so much – was in the balance of the budget or in that guarantee law, if I am not mistaken – has been allocated EUR 150 million for electronic tolling, as I understand, first for freight vehicles, then for personal vehicles – in that even Europe does not know what to do with this tolling. I would have brought him in, but one day. Only now, I guess, are we going to experience the first Galileo satellite to go into space, and then all the systems are referring to it. I'm asking you: Why is Dars continuing to apply for tolling and the government has no authority? Wouldn't it be hygienic to wait for a new National Assembly, a new coalition, a new government to decide what to do with it? In my opinion, this would be fair and right, if not for the other EUR 150 million and also for the face of this government, that it did not impose a new burden on the successors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u176	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you, Chairman. Two comments first. Guilts aren't good. They're unfair. I don't know why we don't put our phones on the counter, but we all pay the same, no matter how much we talk. They're just not fair. Those who drive little are not fair to him, they have to pay 95 euros per year, or they would pay maybe 5 euros or 10 or 20. And they're not fair! More money is collected because we had to fix your pre-election candy – €55. For 55 euros, you gave a vignette if it wasn't a pre-election candy, and I don't understand anything either. If you have a chance to rule again, lower prices to 55 euros, if that was the right price, and return what was your policy, then back, I will be happy to watch what happens next with our debt repayment for motorways. As far as to tolling is concerned. First, the government adopted an action plan when it had full powers. In fact, you are now asking me to change the action plan after we no longer have full powers. Dars is doing what the government and I have scheduled for him in the action plan. If we change things, you're gonna yell at me for it not to be a running business. So whether changing the action plan following the deadline set by the European Union is an ongoing business – I do not think that changing the action plan is such an ongoing business. If the next government, which will soon come, think otherwise, it will have the opportunity to change that. The government has adopted in its full powers an action plan and Dars is working on this action plan. You say that tolling is 150 million, and you all know that tolling costs now, this moment, every year, about 17% of Darsa's income. It's not free now either. These are the costs that are present for each toll. Now you're talking like it's not tolling costs right now, it's going to be 150 million dollars, and it's going to be expensive. Now 150 million will be paid, and this toll will be expensive! It is necessary to calculate how much it costs now. That is how I think I would do contrary to current business if I now order Darsu to stop what European legislation also imposes on him. However, if what you say turns out to be true that the European Commission does not have all the things yet cleared, which I partially agree with you, at least as far as cars are concerned, but we are going for trucks only now, then the future government will be able to change that easily.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u178	Here you go, Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u179	Now, as regards the change in the action plan, the situation has changed as well. This is an invitation to tender accepted by a government. The situation has changed, Your Honor. Right now, we are in early elections, and at least what it is, is that so much of the burden of Si, what is the key in the action plan: what will this tolling system be and whether it is necessary! [[...]] Now, of course, we act as if we are 150 million euros or that cost is nothing to worry about. What if the new government – what we are saying now – decides that it is more appropriate to build a highway section for this money from Drazenec to Gruškov, to continue by moving the highway section from Postojna to Jelshan, it is said that what has not been built now is placed in the space and is said to be put in place; we will be towed when we have the means to do so. No, no! 150 million Euros must now be concrete with the invitation to tender! You will recall, the former Minister of Transport was faced with a similar dilemma: whether to cancel or leave the call forward or leave it to the new minister. He made a wise decision; he left the decision to the new minister, that is, you. I urge you to do so. It'll be hygiene.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u180	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u181	No, you didn't say the dilemma the way it really was. The previous Minister of Tenders did not publish the invitation to tender. He didn't publish it. This invitation to tender has been under way for a very long time. That's an essential difference. Otherwise, I basically agree with you that it is right for the new government to be defined for such major projects, but only I think it will be possible. Because I strongly doubt, given the progress of this call, where the deadlines are now extended, where there will certainly be some complaints where the State Audit Commission will decide on this; I doubt that the new Government would have a chance to say anything about this. That's how I think you're right. But just to stop me now that I will then be responsible for not catching the deadlines of the European Union that it is setting for us, and I will not do so because the Action Plan has been adopted by the Government when it has full powers, but now I would break it when it is doing business; and this part of course is not going well together. In addition, I repeat, former Minister Žerjav did not announce the call, but he did have it ready and he did not announce it because the elections were actually over. But we had full powers when the project was already under way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u182	Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! 8. 10. For the first time in the media, I personally found information with a very significant title, which was published: We save, and let it cost as much as it wants! That was the address in Journal 24. This is information that another ministry will move to new or other premises in this mandate. The information would not be of such interest if it were not already a witness in this mandate to the alleged corruption of the movement of the NPU into private-owned premises. So, the then Minister of the Interior, although she had public premises at her disposal, decided to rent the premises owned by her personal friend. We all know the story about the amount of monthly rent and the amount of the loan of this friend. And also how this thing got mixed up, how very non-chalant was first explained how everything was O.K., then things started to get complicated, and in the end, the plot was clear. It is no wonder, therefore, that I am asked why and where the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities is moving one month before the elections. According to this information in the media, from state premises, i.e. premises owned by the State, are to be moved to private premises which are also to be owned by Mr Dušan Šešok. I want to know: What is the reason for moving and also the substantive basis for selecting exactly this object, we are talking about the building on Kotnikova 28? What was it that led you to decide one month before the elections that you would move the ministry out of the building that is now state-owned into the facility owned by Mr. Sesoka? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Horvath! It's the next thing. For about 15 years, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been trying to arrange for it to work with all the Directorates at one location. It is now on Kotnikova 5, Kotnikovi 28, Slovenian 54 and Zemmerski 12. There have been experiments in recent years in Tržaška, Masaryk, Kapitlje, the Refugee Court, and the case has failed, so on 16 April 2010 we published a public call for rental space. These offers were rare, but the only one that was suitable arrived on 18 November 2010 by seven owners at the location of Kotnikova 28, where we already have one part of our services installed. There are seven owners in this tower, one of whom is Dušan Šešok. Now, why are we pursuing this resettlement arrangement? The reasons are as follows: that we can ensure greater safety of employees at one location, better control of the work of employees who are now at four locations, less response time, because there is a lot of time between individual directorates to carry mail, and then the whole matter takes a long time, then we also have acquisition here as regards system administrators to assist users in solving incidents, rationalisation of costs related to hardware and number of servers, homogeneous network and better logistics regarding hardware. Most importantly, from the present fifteen to sixteen euros per square metre, as we pay rent, we will pay eleven euros per square metre after the new one. It is true that we are moving from premises that are government premises, but we will arrange this by coming to Kotnikov 5 with other state institutions, including the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. In addition, we are in agreement with the Ministry of Public Administration, the judiciary and the economy, to move part of their services to these premises. Thus, these premises will now continue to be used, so that there will be no loss of income, or where the rent is being paid, then there will be no more. In short, if all of this is taken into account, then we can say that we will achieve two key objectives: one is a merger of the ministry at one location, and the other is a rational implementation of a project that will reduce rent costs per square metre. The lease is not a new building, but the rent is therefore significantly lower than it would have been otherwise. The premises are located in the immediate vicinity of public transport facilities, which is equally important for staff members, and also allow access to all the important institutions with which the Ministry cooperates. As stated, the ownership premises at Kotnikova 5 will also be used to solve the spatial problems of some other authorities. From this point of view, I can say that the lab was made to indicate the meaning of this move. The move is already under way, the decision has not been taken recently. However, if you know of any corruption in this matter, please also report it, because we have the appropriate authorities to do so, and we will be happy to explain what will be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u186	Mr. Croat, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The answer was fully expected, similar to the first question raised by the Minister of Home Affairs in relation to the NPU. Very similar. According to the magnetogram, I was expecting it to be like this today. I believe that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs has tried to bring them all together under one roof and bring them into a building where all the services of the Ministry would be together, but the fact is that the worst option anyone can afford right now is to take the building for rent. Why? You rent a building, you pay rent every month, there's nothing for you in the end. Probably in the meantime, the owner's credit is being repaid for this building, probably. Maybe as a question: Whether the loan for this building has already been repaid by Mr Šešok – I am talking about Kotnikovi 28 –. Or will the state also repay the loan with the annuities it will pay off? If this is a long-term austerity policy, then I just don't understand something here. Also in the media, the answer is that I assume that your operating costs, which are currently estimated to be 34 000 for all four locations, are projected to be five thousand euros more. That's a quote you must have given. So a few hours ago, Prime Minister Pahor spoke about the merger of ministries. What will happen if the next government wants to join ministries? I just think it's necessary to come from 18 ministries at least ten. Somewhere. It's a matter of debate and discussion, but now you're saying that you've finally got everything under one roof, and now you'll be able to join another ministry as the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're at four locations, on three we're paying rent now. So this rent, as it were said, is going to go down. And that also gives us the savings we're talking about. If ever there is a desire to redeem and that funds will be available, the future government will also be able to redeem it, but if they are willing to sell it, they will talk to the owners. Once again, there are seven owners and seven tenants. The one you're talking about is just one of them, and he doesn't have any special status. If you know of any corruption here, you must announce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u190	Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, in the media, we were able to learn that the police have carried out a successful action on corruption, or only on the part of the construction inspector and his assistant. This, of course, confirms that there is obviously corruption in this area and probably also customerism, and there are many other things that make us think that black construction procedures are not going as well as they should. In this way, we can also see resounding cases in public that some buildings that were built without a building permit do not collapse, despite the fact that these were long-standing procedures and some were already legally binding. One such case is Mr Jaklic's incriminating case, where the procedure has been legally complicated since 2005. You answered that question yourself, and for two years, an official had this file in his drawers. As I know, until today, this is October 2011, this facility is not broken. The question arises unwittingly: Is this also related to corruption or to other clienteleistic connections that some objects are being demolished and some apparently not? I also want to know if you can provide me with information, say, especially for a better show: How many black buildings were destroyed in Slovenia this year? How many decisions have been taken to demolish black buildings and no demolition has been carried out? Perhaps this information will give everyone an idea, especially to the Ministry, that consideration should also be given to carrying out internal controls to see whether there is also some subjective responsibility for individual inspectors and other institutions not to complete their business as they should. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u192	Mr. Minister Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members! Well, I'll start at the back. This story is extremely interesting. As I had answered once before, the same question came from two sides, which at the time was a little joy to me that somehow the same subjects were of interest to both parts of this hall, and I wondered about this story. Well, now, one day in the paper, we read that this gentleman, as I said at the time, is extremely skilled. And one of the last tricks was that, just before the lawyer had to accept the document, he took away his powers. Well, then we went another way. Then we forwarded the decision to determine the execution directly to the debtor. We haven't received any feedback on the service before 12 o'clock today. In two days, the 16-day period for service shall expire. If there is no service then – 45 days and it goes into action. On the other hand, there's a little bit of statistics. Somehow, in construction inspection procedures, there are an average of 700 execution procedures per year. In 2010, there were 785 in 2011 even more. I don't know if we can be proud or not, but it works. About 500 enforcement procedures are related to illegal construction, it is said to be a nice number, two-thirds. And some statistics show that in recent years between 40 and 70 cases have been violently broken or not by the owners themselves. The owners seem to have done a pretty good job of breaking things. You need to know that in this number, they're not always spectacularly large objects, they can be some kind of roof, what kind of stairs, a shovel, and that's what people do. Every year, inspectors open an average of three and a half thousand new procedures, issue some 1700 decisions, as I said, and around 700 to 800 are completed per year. On average, there are 8 thousand cases per year under construction inspection — so much so that we get a little bit of a show. Oftentimes, for those cases that are black construction, and during this process, they also obtain a building permit. Such things have been mentioned in the media lately. If anyone would like to know more about this, there is a report every year on the work of the inspectorate and it is also published on the website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u194	Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am very pleased, especially with the first part of the response, where you have very supervisedly explained how someone can play the rule of law with us. Last but not least, it is Mayor Jankovic's right hand, who is apparently looking for a way to play along with him. This is symptomatic enough, and let us hope that it will also show up in the elections. I'd like to continue here as far as these inspectors are concerned. I would always appeal to you as long as you perform this function, as well as to future ministers, that inspectors do not always behave as a drunkard to fence certain decisions, especially when it is done with good will and also procedures, if they are running to obtain or to obtain appropriate permission, then also to listen a little and allow people who have often been in good faith in fact also be misled by the parties or municipalities or those who regulate the environment and space to go into the construction process before they have obtained these documents. Of course, it would be true that a little bit more, probably by internal control or by the chief inspectorate, and there are also some cases where there may be great suspicion that it is also a corrupt business, for some acquaintance, customerism. Last but not least, this case, which was published in public 10 days ago, also shows. This, of course, will make it easier for everyone to work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u196	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact. Last time I spoke to the chief of inspectors, she showed me the diagrams where she's been keeping a close eye on the work of an individual inspector. One is extremely successful, efficient, one less. That's all nice and all right. It's also about saying that someone has easier cases and they end up faster. But the important problem is that we are all very protected in the state administration today, except for ministers. At least you can interpolate us and we can't interpolate in our system. This is a major problem that I hope that the next government and Parliament will say something on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u198	Mr Branko Marinič will ask the question of the Minister of Transport, Dr Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! There have been smaller and three serious railway accidents on the tracks of Slovenian Railways this year. These are, of course, primarily the result of damage to employees and damage to passengers. And what is not irrelevant is the enormous material damage caused by such disasters. One major railway accident occurred this year in the Stock on 20 February, when a diesel locomotive with three wagons was removed and 2,000 litres of oil ran out of the locomotive. 26. On 8 this year, one of the worst railway accidents occurred at the Jesenice railway station, where freight and passenger trains collided. It's the worst-class railway accident. It's only luck to thank that the victims were no longer and with the worst, worst consequences. And a good week ago, there was a train accident at a rail-road crossing in Lavrica on the route Ljubljana–Rakovnik–Skofljica, where a passenger train crashed into the trailer of a truck loaded with bricks. Dear Minister, there are enough reasons to do something in terms of ensuring greater security, so I ask you: What is the amount of material damage involved in the above three accidents? What are the findings of the final report by the Commission regarding guilt and responsibility? What preventive measures have been taken to ensure greater rail safety?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u200	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you, Chairman. So far, we have only officially completed the event in Ljubljana-Stock. The material damage reported is 442 000 916.99 euros. For the event in Jesenica, the assessment of material damage is about a million and a half. There's no material damage assessment for the Lavrica event. In the case of Ljubljana–The stock is the fault and responsibility of the Slovenian Railways. The reason is the insufficient rotation of the moving composition, which is the responsibility of the movement leader and the moving gear in the moving assembly. In the event of a train crash at the Jesenice station and a train crash on a truck at the Lavrica Crossroad, the commission report on the emergency has not yet been completed. In accordance with the applicable rules, the investigation will be completed no later than 50 days after the occurrence of the event. What preventive measures have been taken to ensure greater rail safety? As far as Slovenian Railways are concerned, all the workers in the enforcement services with the event in Ljubljana-Stock have been properly informed and analysed in detail. During the regular training of the executive staff, all workers were instructed about the proper work and the rules in force. On the spot, workers involved in the event were preventively removed from the workplace at least until the end of the exchange and sent for appropriate knowledge verification or medical examination. The Slovenian Railways have introduced disciplinary procedures against violators in the case of Ljubljana–The Reserve. At the Ministry of Transport, after the accident in Lavrica, I called on everyone responsible for rail and road safety. That was just the next day after the accident. We agreed to re-check all the low-level crossings that are secured only by the Andrei Cross, currently 543 of which are three crossings of the state road with the railway, in all other cases it is a crossing of the local road with the railway. As you know, ensuring adequate transparency on local roads, such as this road crossing the Lavrica railway, is the responsibility of local communities. Given that level crossings are mainly the responsibility of local communities, we held some kind of informative educational meeting this year and last year. We invited all the mayors who have local roads crossing the railway in their municipality. One event was in Ljubljana, one was in Maribor. They were both well visited. There we have informed them of their obligations under the rules and of specific cases of conduct. Nevertheless, at the Ministry of Transport, together with all those in charge of security, including those in charge of road safety, we will consider how the country could act in the future in this area where it does not have jurisdiction. In fact, where there is no State jurisdiction, we must not as a state, say, go and build, so we must not, as we believe it to be right, arrange such a transition. In addition, we have decided that the Commission for the Troop Transitions will start with the prioritisation of all such transitions and propose an appropriate individual solution where these solutions are not yet available, although we already have many transitions to this solution. This commission has, since its establishment, I believe that more than 100 crossings have already been cut off and have been largely secured. And if there are connecting roads as an appropriate solution, we will propose to end these crossings where this can be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you so much for these answers that I have to say that I am and I am not satisfied. In fact, when the Stock took place and when the Jesenice happened, all the reasons for all the alarm systems on Slovenian railways as well as on the Ministry of Transport were given. When it comes to the collision of a freight and passenger train or the collision of two trains, it must illuminate the alarm of the highest extent. This did not happen and here it is necessary to ask publicly and clearly what were the measures of the Ministry and the management of the Slovenian Railways regarding liability, but not those of direct, indirect, indirect responsibilities. In a specific case, an accident in Jesenica is attributed objective responsibility to management and to the top representatives who run the system of Slovenian Railways and also the Ministry of Transport. None of this happened. There is a lack of action, such as training the executive staff. The measures that have been taken are insufficient, so I am deeply concerned about further safety on the Slovenian railway tracks, as the systemic action has not been taken in spite of the severe and qualified major accident in Jesenica, and no concrete decision has been taken regarding objective responsibility on one side of the Ministry of Transport and on the other side of the Slovenian Railways management.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u204	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u205	As far as that's concerned, you're right. I am objectively responsible for everything that happens in the transport system of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I take such accidents very seriously. That's why I also looked at the scene of all three traffic accidents, talked to all the participants, but I don't want this moment before the investigation is over, to speculate that some moves should now be withdrawn and done more harm than good. We have a very evasive system regarding the accident investigation and the accident investigation shows what happened, and the accident investigation actually tells you what you need to do as a minister. Otherwise, we could now, for this we have an expert investigator who is very quality, otherwise I could now as a minister ask for something that would not be professional enough. In this way, it might cause more harm than good. You know, there are 16 million passengers on Slovenian railways every year. This is a very large number of people, this is a very large system. It is a system with a long tradition and it is a system with a very difficult security system. Irregular interventions, which would be my desire to increase security, which would not be the result of a professional decision, could bring more harm than benefits. That is why I believe that it is necessary to wait for what the investigation shows and the proposal for investigation measures, and then, of course, to do absolutely everything necessary to ensure that this does not happen again. Don't think I'm indifferent in these two accidents. I was very worried. I had the next day, following an accident on Lavrica, a trip abroad, I immediately cancelled it and called off everyone who was safe on the railways and roads, and we sat down and agreed on measures to move forward. I repeat, I've seen both places. I also have an opinion as to why there was an accident. However, as long as I do not get the expert results from the proposals for solutions that we will then rehash with all the security authorities, in particular our security agency, which is the body that takes care of this in addition to the co-workers in the ministry, then takes measures not to do any more harm in order to do any good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u206	Mr. Marinic, a procedural proposal? If he doesn't, I'll stop you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u207	In view of the fact that I do not have a business provision relating to Article 240 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Minister to submit to me, upon completion, final reports on the investigation of exceptional events, from which it will be clear what the measures are and what material damage is involved, which I have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u208	Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! A good month ago, I asked a similar question. The answer, however, was neither me nor you, Minister, and I am again asking the question. I would like to say that the southern motorway leg of the motorway cross in Dolenjska was either completed or put into service in June last year. However, the unfinished ones remained, in addition to the little things on the road itself, the connecting road to Mirna Peca and connecting to the Valley of Peace. Work on the connecting road to Mirno Pec was interrupted virtually immediately after the opening of this road and towards the Mirsko Valley this year in March. We know about Mirna Pec, a famous story we know about Vegrad, which was here by the performer, left an unfinished covered trench, about 80% built. The SCT and the Maribor Road Company were the performers of the Mirsko Valley. In March they cleaned up all the machines and left, the construction site was half built, and the traffic lights had been set against Mirna for more than a year, and there was only one carriage lane for the entire valley of peace to Sevnica. We do not know when the work will continue and when it will be completed. Last time you told me that Dars has told you that the works will be completed in both construction sites by the end of 2013, by being on a covered job for about a couple of months and in Trebnja for six months. I don't know what Dars is going to do good two years in this construction site, because it's both for us in Mirna Peca and for the needy people, because there are huge traffic congestions. In fact, major damage is also being done in the construction site itself, because materials are falling down, it is pouring down, and it will be difficult for the new contractor to start without increased costs. I would ask you if you have any more concrete answers, because this is really unsustainable for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u210	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u211	A little better than last time. For a peaceful connection, I have the latest messages from Dars that the broadcast procedures will be completed by the end of this year – last time it was not so optimistic, now this message – and it is expected to be completed in 2012, so this is already significantly better news than last time, as far as this is concerned. For a peaceful connection – Dars will try to complete the negotiations with the contractor already included in the contract. If this does not happen, there will also be a call for proposals, but everything is so ready that after our intervention it will also be completed after 2012, so that this is significantly faster than it was originally intended to be, than I last responded to.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you. We have also tried to ask operators why such a delay has occurred, whether the work has not been paid to previous operators, or whether the contractor has not paid its subcontractors. The problem was that Dars had only one guarantee from all the operators in this consortium. If these operators were to continue with the estimates they had previously made under the basic contract, they should also be covered by a guarantee for failures or unpaid works of those operators who came into bankruptcy at that time. The main reason is that operators do not want to assume the responsibility of previous operators, which we know have not been paid to their subcontractors. Therefore, if there is a new call for proposals, in my view and in the opinion of some experts, there will be a much higher price and also higher costs, as it is difficult to take on semi-finished work without increased costs. Therefore, I think that Dars should somehow cut off, cash out those guarantees they have from previous operators, and that these performers who are still remaining continue to work without complications without a new call for proposals, because if there are complaints at the time of the call for proposals, this can continue. However, if we agree on a basic contract, the works can continue for a short time. I think the thing is here at Darsa, that someone really makes a firm decision and that the work is going on, because these performers who are still there are willing to finish it in a very short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Minister? You don't want to. Thank you. Mr Marjan Bezjak will raise the question of the Minister of Finance, who is rightly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well-regarded Minister, fellow Member and Member of Parliament! I am referring to the question to Minister Franz Križanič. During your ministry, the Slovenian state has made a record commitment. You have doubled or increased the country's debt by about €8 billion. I'm asking: How much debt funds have you earmarked to support the economy and how much to support Slovenian banks? What specific economic measures have you financed from borrowing? To which companies have you allocated the funds referred to in this Title and at what levels? Prime Minister Borut Pahor emphasises today that the economic crisis and the severe economic downturn are not the fault of the government of Mr Janez Janša, but rather the global situation of the economy and the measures of the current government that governs it. Personal income has been growing in the public sector for a long time. Protocol, Government buys the castle of Brdo, Persian carpets and not listing other meaningless make-up investments that the Government has actually made during this time. After three years of government collapse, Mr Borut Pahor notes that ministerial resources must unite. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2009, for the first time in my life, I personally called on the Minister to bring together certain ministerial departments and reduce ministerial resources. Unfortunately, in Slovenia it has become a matter of value. We must put ourselves back on solid ground that it will become a work of value again. I ask the Minister to answer this question in actual writing, because he is not here today and probably won't be able to answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u216	It's Mr. Milenko Ziherl's turn. [[He's not here.]] Mr. France Tsukati. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Stefan Tisel, please, you will ask the Minister of Health Dorian Marusic a question which is rightly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u217	Dear Mr. Vice President, all present and welcome to all! Financing health care or health care is a complex process. Most of the funds are collected through compulsory and complementary health insurance. By 2008, at the time of the merger, more funds had been raised than they had been used and a nice reserve had been created to cover the deficit in 2009 and 2010. We know that health costs are rising faster than in other areas, especially for two reasons, due to population ageing, which means more patients and introducing new methods of investigation and treatment. Health rights remain at the same level and resources are running low. The health insurance company's forecasts for this year speak of EUR 35 million underutilised. The question is where to cut or cut. In the past, a flat-rate, 8% or 10% reduction has been made to pay for activities in hospitals as well as in health homes or primary health care. Mr Dorian Marusic, Minister of Health, argues that sharp cuts have not occurred in this area. The Minister was also preparing an amendment to the law on supplementary health insurance, where we are all now paying the same amount of EUR 25.24, and he anticipated that this part would also be following a solidarity approach where those with lower income would pay less, but the law did not reach the parliamentary procedure. We learn from the media that there are several health institutions in loss, both university clinical centres, Maribor and Ljubljana, Ljubljana even for 5 million euros, of which only Pediatric Clinic for 3 and a half million. We have also learned that the Director of the Health Insurance Institute and the Minister see different solutions to this problem. That is why I am asking Minister of Health Dorian Marusic the question: How will it address the financing of health care by the end of 2011 so that different programmes are not affected or that patients in need of health care are not affected? Thank you very much and please, because it will probably be difficult to answer verbally for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u218	Mr Milan Čadež will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, respectable minister, colleague and colleague! Dear Mr. Secretary! In addition to the report on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety on the Committee on the Environment and Space, the annual report on the operation of the public company Rudnik Žirovski vrh, the business plan of this public company for the closure of the uranium mine, d.o.o. As early as last March, I asked you how the closing works in the mine are taking place in general in the country and especially in the uranium mine Žirovski vrh and what are the impacts on the environment. You replied to me that in 2009, a special project council was activated, that the measurements would continue and at some point you would be able to give a clear answer. However, on the part of the public company Žirovski, we have learned that the financing of the public company by the state or your ministry has been cut short and that further work has also been prevented, especially at the Boršt landfill, which is moving more than is allowed. According to last year's measurements, the movements were between 10 and 15 centimeters and only an inch and a half and a half. I'm interested in the following: What results and proposals have been submitted by the specifically activated project board? When will the financing of the public company Rudnik Žirovski vrh continue? What does it mean to move 10 times more than allowed for nuclear safety in Slovenia and to protect itself from ionizing radiation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u220	Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Member and Members, Comrade Minister! This mine has been a great mystery to me since the beginning and illogicality. It is the only mine under the Ministry of the Environment's command to close. Interesting. When we wanted to hand over the matter to the AUKN, which has capital investments, they didn't want it. So the whole thing's a little weird. And when we mostly finished the remedial work last year, the story continues to spin. The rehabilitation works were commissioned after the project and were carried out, but, as your question was, it does not seem to be very successful. Here in the whole story, successful or unsuccessful, done according to the project, I don't think the ministry has much to do. You order, you pay and you finish. Once again, RZV is an interesting story that is nothing more than a kind of mediator between the Ministry and those who actually carry out matters. An intermediary who costs us a lot more than is normally expected, and an intermediary who says that for some monitoring, a third of what they charge is enough, which is again a problem. As Minister, I've requested a lot of information, just like you asked me to do today. I didn't know them well either, but they were very difficult, with three-year delays in what kind of reports were coming. I couldn't sign something other than the last day before the budget closed, the last day the director came to my door, which I didn't understand whether I was justly signing for spending state money. But I think that's exactly why things have moved radically. I can say, to the mutual satisfaction of both of us, who have communicated because of the missing data. I didn't know everything I know today, and you probably didn't. I think we've cut this thing somehow now. I'm working on getting the exact details of what was going on, why things were going on, where things were late. On the basis of all this, there will be a clear further fate of the team, a smaller team called Rudnik Žirovski vrh. The movement found — expected 2 centimeters, 10 actual centimeters — is due to some unexpected things that were not taken into account in the design, not because the designers would be ignorant, but because those data were not available at the time and things happened with the icy waters. I think it will be necessary to continue with the rehabilitation, but only the execution of the rehabilitation does not require a costly mediator. The case can be made in a triangle between the ARO and the Ministry of Economy, where the mines belong. In fact, we got this mine because it was once the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. We've got our orders. Other things have moved elsewhere. Therefore, by means of a new organizational form, which will be much more rational, transparent, we will try to regulate these matters. So whoever comes after me can have some better news. But for now, I can say so much, the situation is under control, it's being monitored. Nothing's gonna happen in a month. But we did order a study, even though it should do it RV as a top-case scenario. I think this study will show how much further action and rehabilitation is needed. Or if I finish for a while. Where recovery is needed, I will take care of it, and I will explain to the successor that it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. We both probably know that the decision for this site for the hydrometallural heifer landfill was shared by the professional public at the time. It's also a reflection of all of this now. However, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible, firstly for Rudnik Žirovski vrh, and always. We both know well that the funds were also foreseen in this year's rebalancing, a poor million and a half. I am confident that the financing and continuation of activities at Borst landfill should be released. What the organisation will be like, as a Member, I want it to be effective. Above all, it is effective and there is no confusion in this local environment. Because misinformation that the Ministry of Environment and Space doesn't know what's going on, then by the management of the RZV something else, it's for the local environment something incomprehensible. I'm calling on you once again to sort these things out. And I also somehow can't understand how it could have been three years late with the reports. Because it's also from whoever's asking for the report, unreferenced, and somehow it can't be happening. I would also like to point out that the 2011 business plan was confirmed by the Supervisory Board last October. In this project I have a real feeling that it is not being done as it should be, because the environmental impacts are already greater than they could be. And these movements that are happening aren't the result. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u225	See, with regard to environmental impacts, in a relatively short time setting up a new reorganisation system, trust me, nothing will happen. Even those 5, 6 employees who are there aren't there to start holding the ground if something starts moving, it's done differently. So there'll be no harm done. You put it well — the unresponsiveness, the unresponsiveness, the unresponsiveness. I just didn't have any other instrument than something to sign. Fortunately, this triggered the problem, because I got a lot of information that I wasn't told about before, and we found out a lot about the background, and you probably found something out. And once you have a diagnosis, it's much better for the patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar wants to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To Diane jedan, who's gone. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, Members of Parliament, distinguished others! Since the Minister is away, I would ask him to answer me in writing. Farmers from Kamnik and the Command have addressed me for the high penalties of VURS inspectors. EUR 500 was fined by one of them because he had a calf tied in the barn because the calf was not free to breed. Most small calf breeders are not supposed to have barns arranged in a way that allows for the free breeding of calves. However, the remodeling of barns would require large funds, which are difficult to afford by farmers who regulate a small number of calves. It is said that the rules in the field of calf rearing used by VURS inspectors are not in line with the rules applied by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development of the Republic of Slovenia. The Agency is expected to defend the position that free breeding is not necessary in the event of a farmer up to 5 years old. Farmers note that penalties for non-compliance with VURS rules on free breeding for small breeds are very high. However, due to the high costs of remodeling the barn, they cannot establish the conditions for the free breeding of calves. Examples of good practice are also cited. They also believe that in the case of an attachment the calf is not an inhumane act. Persisting VURS on punishment would lead to an even worse situation when the calf should be killed immediately after birth. According to them, inhumane transport of animals to slaughterhouses and allegedly inhumane treatment in slaughterhouses should be preferred. The punishment of small farmers, according to the farmers who turned to me, would lead to the destruction of small breeders. That is why I ask the Minister: Is it true that there are different rules on the free breeding of calves to be used by VURS and the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development of the Republic of Slovenia? How does the minister see the possibility of solving the problem that farmers are alerting him to? For a written reply, Mr Mag. I thank Diane Jedhan in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We will convey to the Minister your wish or request. We are moving on to a second round of questions from Members, that is the second question that an individual Member raises. Mr Bevk alone would like to ask Igor Lukšić as Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Despite the absent minister, will you ask a question, Mr Bevk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Wild Babes are one of the most important sites of ancient stone age in the world. The archaeological site was discovered in 1978 and was explored from 1980 to 1999 to a depth of 9.5 meters. The site is from 35,000 to over 80,000 years old. The most important find in the cave was the bone whistle, the first such old find in the world. It's for the oldest musician. Her age is estimated at 50,000 to 60,000 years. Older and no less important than it is the finding of bone marrow. Given the high age of whistles and spikes, it is very likely that Neanderthal products are made. The Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education, Dr. Igor Lukšić, asks: Do the Ministry or Government support the continuation of archaeological research in the Wild Baba, since according to experts ’ assumptions, there is still a lot of invaluable archaeological material, perhaps even Neanderthal remains, which would certainly be a global sensation? I'm also interested in: Can a competent research institution, in this case the Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, or the Institute of Archaeology, be applied to an appropriate invitation to tender within the framework of the 2012 already adopted budget next year? If so, what are the possible invitations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. We'll let the Minister know you're expecting a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u233	Yes, that's right, thank you, Vice President. I expect a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u234	Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you. Dear Minister! About a year and a half ago, I asked you for the first time about the subject of the motorway section between Drazenci and Gruškov, the only unbuilt section of the railway. At that time, you said, quote, "when a regulation on this State Spatial Plan is adopted, it will be sufficient to continue the activity of obtaining a building permit and buying land that this motorway is in the resolution itself, where no future and financial operational programme is envisaged". Indeed, the State Spatial Plan Regulation was adopted in September 2010, which is why I was not disappointed in this part of the response, since the route is finally placed in space and usually these procedures last the longest. It is therefore understandable that the follow-up to this project will be faster. In July this year, you replied to your colleague Puksic when he asked you about the same subject that the activities are focused on designing and obtaining building permits. In the following year, the purchases of needed land on the entire route will follow. You are expected to start building this section in 2013, while it is not expected to be completed until 2015. So, Minister, I am interested in the following: how many percent of the land on the route of the future section of the Drazenci-Gruškov motorway has already been bought out? Is there any possibility that the implementation of the project would be slowed down in order to reduce the budget resources of the Ministry of Transport, which would further delay the start of the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje section? What concrete measures will you take to improve the living conditions of citizens and citizens living along the E 59 Drazenci-Uprushkovje national road and have the negative effects of large amounts of transit transport on a daily basis? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u236	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u237	Thank you, Chairman. We are also pleased that we were able to adopt a regulation for this emergency section last year. Let me just say that things are running here anyway, let's say, much faster than at any other department. Let me say that the timeline was set up as I described it to you, but given that things are going pretty well right now, I would, I don't hope to predict it, but I could be faster, so far as it is. Let me say that, unfortunately, I do not have accurate data on land purchases, but I can assure you that due to the purchase of land there is no remote timeline because of how they are going, they tell me that they are going well, unfortunately I do not have the percentage that you asked me about. In fact, the Ministry of Transport has to provide these funds, and they will also be in the balance sheet for this year, and I also have things in place in the adopted balance, but for the next year the government has not proposed a rebalancing, so the next government will have to do so immediately. Now, in the meantime, it's hard to expect people who suffer while they're on the highway to do something essential to me. The motorway section will solve all these problems and difficulties, but this moment, until there is a highway section, unfortunately no special solutions can be made, can only be done with some minor measures, but as much traffic as it has in those summer months will remain. What is good news, however, is that the design has actually started, that the designer has been introduced into the work much faster than in any other section. For example Lucio-Jagodje, the selection of designers for the section from Izola to Lucija lasted significantly longer than here, so that already, say, cut the timeline, given how we expected it to be. I don't hope to predict it, but I do, and I hope it'll be faster than we said at the time, because now the projector is practically already in business. In this sense, because things run well, we can say that they run well at this section. This section, you know, was essentially in the back compared to the Strawberries-Lucia section, and now it's practically overtaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Fish, please. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you. I expected to receive an answer, however, as to how much land has been bought out, so I would expect your professional services to prepare it for you. If there is any chance that this could somehow come out to the public, it would also be an answer to the people who live there. However, I would like to say that it is about the Pyhrne road, which runs from Germany through Austria, Slovenia, Zagreb and beyond to the Balkans, speech, I do not know, 20, 30, 40 years, and in the summer when I crossed the border in Gruškov several times and drove back, say, from the direction of Sibenik, Zagreb to the very border crossing of course of the well-built highway, and then you come to the border crossing with Slovenia and cross, the big board of the European Union, poorly maintained, ground signalling and, of course, this combination of road and we kind of get awkward in front of foreigners when they see it. I think there should be some priorities here, namely, tourism, the economy, the reputation of our country, and I expected to move the matter a little bit in at least these three years, when I am a Member of the National Assembly, with my questions, unfortunately I will have to keep trying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u241	Yeah, there's something I need to say. I was from the sea end, and also on the highway to the Italian side, I moved to a richer country, not on the highway, but on the ordinary road, they also built behind us. When I walk through Slovenia, I often come to places where they tell me that the road has been promised for 30 years. That's not enough. But this pyrne leg is missing and is necessary, we are aware of the lack of that leg between Lucija and Jagod, as is the missing leg from the Postojna or Divaca towards the Croatian border, as is the lack of the northern part of the third development axis, but one thing I have to say to you. Switzerland is only twice the size of Slovenia, it has been building motorways for 50 years, and it has not significantly more than Slovenia, 50 years, and we have since 1994. So we can't be so dissatisfied. In a very short time, the highway cross will be completed, this is a big project. I think we can be proud of something.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Zalar, I must give you all the recognition that you have persisted to the end. Some of your ministerial colleagues have already gone rogue and are apparently looking for new clients. So all the confession. I'd like to know something about the cost of operating this country and spending on your ministry. It is known that in these three years we have additionally indebted Slovenia to EUR 8 billion, and that famous famous coffee payment from Borut Pahor’s own pocket has not helped much, was a poor marketing move or a slightly cynical move. Dear Minister, we could have read in public that you were one of the ministers who traveled a lot abroad at that time. I want to know: What have you done in recent months abroad, perhaps in September and October? Which way do you plan to go before the end of this term? Maybe you have some information about the cost of these routes on a foreign village and, of course, all your teams? But above all, I want to know: What was the added value of all these routes? In view of the fact that we have also received a review of the questions and initiatives sent and that you are a colleague of Vinko Gorenak 15. 9. asked around your business trip to China, but did not get an answer, you have the opportunity to answer this question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u244	Mr. Justice Minister Aleš Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member, first of all, I will return a compliment to you, you are one of the few Members who has endured here to the end, regrettably, what your fellow Member is not, not one who has announced the question, today he was not in this Chamber, despite the fact that I have prepared for an answer. The judgments of all those who are here, and those who are watching us, I leave behind the legal and political culture of such conduct. With regard to the Minister's official travels, first an explanation. Every minister must obtain an appropriate government fund if he travels abroad. So it's up to the government to decide every business trip. The Government shall also set out the starting points for such a business trip and the positions that the Minister will represent at meetings he or she has with his or her colleagues on other occasions. So it's a serious procedure. The government, of course, also assesses the usefulness and the need for such service routes, and so it has been in all my cases. If you're asking me about the last ways. I was last in Brussels, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers for Justice. These meetings are once a month or for two months. This is my legal duty. There I represent the interests of the Slovenian country at EU level, where we deal with very important legislative and other projects, which also bind the Republic of Slovenia. There are views that need a basis in the relevant consensus. This consensus also starves, of course, through an agreement between countries. This agreement between countries can only be reached if there is adequate mutual trust between ministers, so it is important that Slovenia builds bilateral relations all the time, not only with EU Member States, but also more broadly. I would like to point out that this year, the US Justice Minister, the Russian Justice Minister, the British Justice Minister, was visiting Slovenia, and I had recently had a bilateral meeting with the Chinese Justice Minister. Why am I stressing this? Because it's the world's largest countries, the biggest actors. Slovenia, of course, has a great interest in having good bilateral relations with these countries in the field of justice. This is in the interest of our citizens and citizens. They travel, they work abroad, they run into certain procedures, because then certain documents, certifications, declarations for the purposes of judicial proceedings have to be made. And if there are no bilateral arrangements with these countries, then these procedures are extremely slow. So, let's say in China, with the Chinese Justice Minister, I signed a special memorandum on cooperation in the field of justice and more, and on the spot, we agreed that both countries would also conclude two bilateral agreements on judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, on mutual legal assistance, which means that we would totally simplify judicial proceedings. Where Slovenia had a particular interest in cooperation with China, however, the conclusion of an agreement on the transfer of convicts is. There are quite a few foreigners in our country who are sentenced to high prison terms. This country of ours, it costs our taxpayers a lot. Recently, one foreign citizen was sentenced to 20 years in prison. According to the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, if it had survived all twenty years in Slovenia, it would have cost Slovenia 600 000 euros. Slovenia therefore has an interest in agreeing with other countries to transfer to the State of which that individual is. China is also one of these countries. In short, these discussions have important content, they are in the interest of the state and that is why they are happening. And I had another such visit recently in Dublin, Ireland, we met with the Irish Justice Minister. We have reviewed the Irish experience regarding the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Slovenia will, I hope, tomorrow, if you too support this law, this law will be given. Ireland has had it for 15 years and has had an extraordinary experience, and is also extremely effective in this area in comparison with all European countries. We were interested in how they in practice organised themselves in implementing the provisions of the law. The Slovenian law follows the Irish way, and here we have actually taken the inspiration for the proposal that is before you. I hope this will also help, i.e. this exchange between the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-17-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by asking the questions sent and answering these questions. I thank the President of the Government and the ministers for the answers given. I'm closing this agenda item. I inform you that we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. with the 27th point – this is the Annual Report of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much. Good night.
