ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member of Parliament: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Anton Anderlič and Miran Györek. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to the 21st meeting. 1. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. At its 90th meeting, on 21 January 2011, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 23 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. Therefore, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to consider the request of the 23 Members and Members Group that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, EPA-1535/5, following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to request a presentation of the position. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We face bankruptcys every day, we meet unemployed people every day, there are 110 thousand of them, financial discipline and so on, subcontractors who are not payers, commit suicides and so on. We should, following an emergency procedure, deal with any other law, especially those laws that would help people survive from month to month. That would be necessary for this country. But we are sitting here to draw almost 3,000 euros in wages, each of us, net, almost making decisions about these people's fates. However, we do not decide on these matters, but we have a law on the agenda called the Documentary Material Protection Act, which seeks to achieve something completely different. The coalition majority must be well aware that we are in an illegal state. A government official, who is the director of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, decided not to respect the law. He stood up to the law, stood up to the government, stood up to this parliament, and now with this law, the coalition majority wants him to claim, in fact, that he is right. That he's right to stand up to the law. If we do so, the matter is clear. Any citizen can then stand up to the law and say that he will not pay a fine for a traffic offence. Yeah, well, why should I if the civil servants don't have to respect the law? Finally, every citizen can say that he will not pay taxes if they are laid down by law. But that's the situation we're in today, not only to tolerate it, but to cover it back with the law. And we oppose that in the opposition or in the SDS. That's perfectly clear. The archives have been public, under certain conditions, since 2007. Since 2007, this open archive regime has been in force. It is true, however, that as early as 2009, certain researchers went through these archives. One of the researchers, that's how we figured it out. What happens in 2010? In 2010, Mr Omerza was asked to look into this part of the archives, and someone, the director of the Owl, said to him, "No." But the director of the archive agrees. Until the 19th of October of last year, when the director of the Owl is automatic and illegal, I stress illegally, he says, "No, I will mark this with a secret sign." And that's what he does. A day later, although he does not manage this part of the archive, but the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, he rents out some files for fifteen days. Whether he returns everything or not, we'll never know. Why did he need this? We'll never know. Let's move on. The fact is that this matter became problematic last year when the President of the State was charged with constitutional charges. Then, in the coalition, and especially in the intelligence services, the bells rang and they said, "This has to be hidden." Of course, it is the Great One, which is now a public matter. But the question is, ladies and gentlemen, what about Olaf Palme, because it is also said that the State Security Service had a finger in it. Is there something in here? What about the nine assassinations in Koroška that were also made during that period? Is that what he's hiding? So these are the priorities of the coalition: hiding and hiding behind. And at the same time, of course, we know very well who the Minister of the Interior was at the time of the great assassination. That was Mr. Grounder. We also know that Mr Ertl, the head of the State Security Service, was a decorated president of the country. Do you have to hide maybe this? And on Friday on the phone on public television, he says, "No, they weren't state security personnel." An eccentric lie in 2010. We oppose this kind of coalition, we disagree with this kind of coalition. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Your Honor, people are expecting something else from us. This is a daily piece of bread. This should be included in an extraordinary session and not in such documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act amending and supplementing the law on the protection of documentary and archival material and archives shall be dealt with in an urgent manner. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 44. Against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure under the envisaged 2nd item of the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at the same meeting on 21 January 2011 that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, EPA 1496/5, should be considered on a regular basis. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of 38 Members and Members, with Dusan Kumro, requested the National Assembly to decide on the above-mentioned decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is required to place the first meeting of the Assembly on the agenda without discussion and vote. The assembly will consider that requirement as 30.A. item of the agenda tomorrow, Tuesday, 1. 2. 2011, after the final vote. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary! The mandate-election commission decided on Thursday at an emergency meeting on immunity for Judge Škobernet. I must say, on this committee, we unanimously voted not to grant immunity to a judge. At that time, however, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was also convened, at which time they would also decide, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether this decision is on the basis of which it is possible to extend the detention or to pre-trial it for a longer period. We have no problem not to support the proposal not to admit immunity to the judge, but we are interested in why, in this particular case, a violation of the procedure or of this legal void has occurred, for immunity is granted or is not granted by the National Assembly and not by the Mandate-Volution Commission. We wonder whether this one, we can say, is conscious, intentional, or is an agreed error in relation to the fact that some of the institutions of the executive, as we see from the last letters, are related to the said judge. In this case, too, it has happened that one of the state authorities, in this case the National Assembly, and the National Assembly represent and ensure its legality by the President of the National Assembly, the one who caused the illegal situation and then extended the detention to that judge on the basis of a decision that it does not. Until the National Assembly confirms that the immunity judge has been granted immunity, this judge may not be detained until then. We estimate that this is a serious procedural failure by the leadership of the National Assembly, which is not a matter that has not been decided by the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which has properly processed the decision, has not been called to an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, nor has such an extraordinary meeting been convened. We appreciate, Mr President of the National Assembly, that this is a serious setback, that, in our view, it may be a conscious decision to cause this legal void and that it is also in some conscious way a violation of the criminal procedure and the rules applicable to officials in this regard. It's not the first time this has happened in the National Assembly. I would like to know what measures will be taken, what the consequences will be, what you will do as President of the National Assembly, how this illegal situation will be resolved and how to ensure that this will not happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u5	Your Honor, Comrade Tanko! There is no illegal situation, business regulations are clear and regulated. In any event, under Article 208 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall immediately decide on the granting of immunity, in that case to the Member, in the same manner as to the judge in custody. The National Assembly at the first decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission shall confirm or repeal and amend. Until confirmation, immunity has not been granted, and the National Assembly can change that decision. The National Assembly shall decide and it shall be borne in mind that the Mandate-Election Commission is also part of the National Assembly and all these articles are clear. It has always been this way, we have always done the same thing and there is no legal void, except, of course, for any lawyer detained by a judge. That's possible. But not for the legal regime we know. Otherwise, it would be very unusual for the National Assembly to meet on Sunday morning, if necessary and so on, when it comes to confirming immunity. These matters are regulated in the rules of procedure and are clear and unambiguous, and this is also the interpretation of the legal profession. We will no longer discuss this matter because it is unnecessary and does not lead to anything. Do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Objection to your conclusion first. We have so far supported all those proposals to deny immunity to both members of the National Assembly and other officials. Therefore, what you have said about us being the lawyers of this judge is absolutely not true and has no basis in the proceedings and conduct of the parliamentary group so far. That's the first time. In the future, I would like to ask you to comment, if you comment, on what has a basis in the actions of the groups and Members of Parliament. What you found doesn't have it. Another time. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also contain Article 212, which regulates procedures relating to the immunity of other holders of public functions. And here I will read Article 212: "The National Assembly shall decide whether to allow a judge suspected of a criminal act in the exercise of a judicial function to be detained or to initiate criminal proceedings against him at the request of the competent authority. The Court of Justice shall decide on the permission to bring the judge into custody after having obtained the opinion of the Council of Justice." In this particular case, the National Assembly has not decided. I therefore ask what you will do and how you will act in this case when the National Assembly for whose legality you are appointed, and this also lays down the rules of procedure in its provisions, I do not think that Article 21 has acted in accordance with the legality or the grounds for doing so. In this case, you have made a serious procedural error. You allowed a measure to be taken against someone on the basis of a decision not verified by a decision of the National Assembly. In these cases, the Commission's mandate-holder is only a working body that prepares a decision for the decision-making process of the National Assembly, as well as for the rest of the working bodies. And in these proceedings, no decision of the Mandate Commission is final, but it is transitional. And I say here in advance that you're not going to do anything again on any side, Madam President. We will confirm the proposal not to grant the judge immunity, but we ask why this situation has been caused, that for two or three days in this detention procedure, detention for this judge is not a cover. And that means a violation of the rule of law. As with the archives which you have unlawfully closed and decided by the state authority not to comply with the law, in this case the President of the National Assembly is the one who failed to ensure that this decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission is adequately supported by a decision of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u7	To what I have added, let me quote 214 more because you didn't want to quote it. "in the cases referred to in the preceding two articles" means Articles 213 and 212 relating to Judges "are applied mutatis mutandis to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure in the procedure relating to the immunity of Members". That is why this debate is concluded. The mandate-election commission did the right thing, so it did not give immunity. However, this decision will be discussed and decided by the National Assembly and will be adopted, endorsed or repealed. Procedural proposal of Victory Jelinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia send a letter to the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice to explain on what basis the Court violated the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and other legal provisions. The fact is, this is an extremely abusive court of law. I'm not going to talk about whether the judge gets immunity or not, but the procedure has to be respected. The process is the foundation of democracy, and it breaks with us. Democracy is respect for legal formalities. Although there are formalities, they must be respected and followed. Otherwise, we go where some in power want, to a police state, to a country of repression, and if we look a little further, let's say for a year, we can also go to a country of some quiet removal of political opponents. That would not be good, and therefore, Mr President, I ask that the National Assembly request an explanation of how and why. It must be said that this case is not the first or only one. Even in the case of a Member of the Happy Friends, the same thing happened. It is also interesting that despite the fact that Mr Srečko Friend still has the status of a Member, the National Assembly withdraws the financial resources for working in the Group of Members for one Member, which is unconstitutional. However, some of them can, of course, allow everything when they are in power. That's not right, Mr. President. We must not allow this to be maintained if we are to maintain the proper form of our speech and that of our country in the world. They think of us as the only post-communist fortress, even worse, the bastion of neocommunism in Europe. I don't think it's good for the country, it's not good for our development, so let's do at least something and stick to the basic legal scars. Therefore, Mr President, please write a letter and get to know the answer of the judicial branch of power which seems to be taking over the entire police force, so that we can at least know how, why, or how they will be excused for these illegal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I reject your proposal, as I mentioned earlier, that the procedure of the National Assembly, the Mandate-Electorial Commission, was properly, as well as the National Assembly, so that there is no point in even discussing it, at least to those who know the rules of procedure. Procedural proposal, Mr Mag. Boris Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. I don't think there's anyone in this room who would grant immunity to the judge. And I suggest we take a five-minute break to resolve this dilemma as to whether it should be done today or tomorrow. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I reject this proposal because it is not necessary. Once again, I say that we will decide on this in the framework of the vote. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are clear and I think it is absolutely unnecessary here to stand up in any way, to be a lawyer, a judge's lawyer and to discuss it. Please! Peace in the hall! We are moving on to a full agenda. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Look, things are important. In this case, it was probably a conscious procedural error. In spite of the fact that this judge was caught in a crime, it was on the basis of the tricks and tricks known by the legal profession that occurred that in this case he did not decide in due time in the National Council on the Granting of Immunity. And in this case, we cannot pass that for some it is enough that there are enough friends with certain people who have come out here in the media. Although an important representative of the executive authority of the Republic of Slovenia says that he does not know this person, this is to be understood from the media, it is evident that they were together at the wedding of one of the [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thin, what does this have to do with the agenda? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u14	in which this judge was [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u15	Tell me. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u16	Even the mother. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u17	Please, come on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u18	and it is obvious that in this case, Mr President, there has been a study option in which this judge has not been given a timely ruling on immunity only in order that, despite the fact that he has committed a crime, he may be entitled to compensation for unlawful detention and detention in this case. [[...]] That's the point of all this. And it is irresponsible that the President of the National Assembly, who, under Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in paragraph 4, in the fourth indent of paragraph 1, is obliged to take care of the implementation by the Constitution, by law and by this Rules of Procedure of certain relations, so I shall say, inappropriately and from the aircraft a visible procedural error. This means that the National Assembly is an integral part of all these machinations that occur by ignoring, by knowingly failing to enforce laws. The only difference was that the director of the Owl said that he would not comply with the law, and the president of the National Assembly was silent and did the same. That's the whole difference. Instead of the person who committed the offence being punished, he will receive even compensation at the end of the proceedings. This is because of the negligence of the leadership, not the leadership, the President of the National Assembly, who has a special mandate under the Rules of Procedure to ensure that all procedures in this House are carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the Laws. However, if the decision of the National Assembly is not necessary, then, Mr President, there is no need for a plenary meeting of the National Assembly in all other decisions. All of this can be done by the National Assembly on Individual Work Bodies. And meetings such as this are not necessary, not in the case of mandated decisions, nor in the case of other decisions of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. What's too much is too much. You actually went over the edge, Mr. Tanko. One more time. As I am informed, as soon as she received the request or motion for withdrawal of immunity, the Mandate-Electorial Commission met, the immunity was withdrawn. Immunity has been withdrawn and the decision of the National Assembly at its first next meeting, which is held tomorrow, will either confirm or repeal this decision. If the National Assembly repeals this decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it can happen that it will be able to claim compensation and also receive compensation, otherwise the withdrawal of immunity shall be valid if it is confirmed by the National Assembly as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. All the other fillings are bad taste, and more than I can say. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set out as received by reference and as a follow-up. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 28. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the agenda for the 24th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements of 38 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 240 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 245 of the Rules of Procedure. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The following ministers today apologized on this point: Mag. Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Development and European Affairs, Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Finance Dorian Marušič, Minister of Health, from 17.30 p.m. on, mag. Darja Radic, Minister of Economy, 20 hours from now, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question of the mission will be asked by the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the spring of 2009, Mr President, on 2 April 2009, I asked the question of a Member of Parliament, which has actually been repeated for the third time. The first issue was already in March 2008 about the disappearance of Slovenian citizens in the area of Kosovo, which they cruelly converted into spare parts for the other inhabitants of the planet. At that time, you replied to me that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always been involved with political means and dialogue at international level in preserving the security and respect for the human rights of all people in Kosovo and that Slovenia has recognised Kosovo's independence and independence because Kosovo, in its declaration of independence, has ensured full respect for human rights, especially the rights of national minorities. That didn't happen there. And the information that I gave back then in that Member question and in the previous ones indicated that if I already knew one thing, I should probably know at least Slovenian Owl, not some ministry and so on. One wonders how it is possible for our official organisations to know nothing about these matters, especially since in 2006 a declaration or convention was adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations that enforced disappearances are among crimes against humanity. It is sad that the National Assembly, which received this declaration on the table on 20 September 2007, has not included this matter in the meeting of the National Assembly to date, which means that since then it has been more than three years, but it does not seem worth including, but we are also passing some laws on the protection of archival materials, which may also wish to hide some data in this area. I ask you, Mr President: Is it possible that the request of the United States of America, which did not even sign these conventions, is behind here because, as they said, they do not meet their expectations? Slovenia has not done so and is not interested in Slovenian citizens who have disappeared there. There are quite a few of these data and these data have also been received by our embassies in Belgrade and Pristina. They were informed, and it looks like they planted the files. One wonders what kind of country we are to take care of everyone else significantly more than we do for our own citizens, who we simply take aside and do not deal with.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u23	Your Honor, Mr. Ambassador. First of all, let me assure you that Slovenia, as a sovereign state, does not comply with the instructions of any other country, and that it may be agreed to act with them, and if that is our and the common interest, then so do we. I would also like to assure you that Slovenia is not indifferent to our compatriots around the world, and, last but not least, it is bound by the Constitution. As far as your question is concerned, which has not been asked for the first time, I would like to tell you some information. At this point, after informal data in Kosovo, there are about 400 Slovenes, a poor quarter of all Slovenians living there in 1999. As part of the committee of truth on the fate of Slovenians in Kosovo and the National Council of National Minorities in Serbia, a comprehensive list of Slovenians from Kosovo is now being drawn up, which will include the history of Slovenian migrations to Kosovo and the individual records of their life stories. Here I should recommend and ask you, Sir, if you have information or information that would be relevant to the authorities, which should also take action under the official responsibility to inform them of this information. The list of creations since 2006 focuses on Slovenia, which left Kosovo due to developments after the well-known year 1999. The list is still incomplete and is unreachable for security reasons for once. It is expected that you could present not only information about how many Slovenians have actually left Kosovo, but also how many are actually there and who are there. The data are summarised in a study carried out by the Institute for Slovenian Emigration and Migration at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art in 2010 and co-financed by the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. The research will continue this year, which suggests that the government is not indifferent to the questions you are asking. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been involved in maintaining the security and human rights of all peoples of Kosovo through political means and dialogue at international level, after all, including the extensive security forces in the framework of international missions. Slovenia has also recognised Kosovo's independence and independence because, as an integral part of your question, Kosovo, in its declaration of independence, has ensured full respect for the rights, especially the rights of national minorities. You're asking about missing persons. Regarding the missing persons of Slovenian origin, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has informed me that it has not received any information so far that relatives in recent years would request consular assistance in the case of missing or missing persons with Slovenian or other citizenship in the territory of Kosovo. The Slovenian government does not have information to deal with such events. But you said that you might provide such information, you do, in that sense I ask you to hand them over to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if you are so kind. If it were the citizens of Slovenia, such a procedure could also be initiated in the relevant department of the Slovenian police or Interpol. As it is said, a similar question has been raised by the Government in the past twice. And every time you were explained that the competent authorities do not have data on Slovenians that are supposed to be among missing, missing or killed persons from Kosovo. If such specific information is obtained, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will respond decisively. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also following with extreme attention the developments and discussions related to the report of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Marty, on the inhumane treatment of people and trafficking in human beings in Kosovo. This type of accusation cannot be left unexplored and without an appropriate epilogue, as the report opens an important and [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The file. [[...]] In this case, once again, Member, we ask you to cooperate if you have information that the Government does not have.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Victory the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I have to say that the people at the SAZU Institute have already called me and I gave them information that they did not have. It is also important to say that I have here a letter from the Committee of the Truth about the fate of the Slovenians in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, where they wrote nicely that they had already notified several ministries in Slovenia and Serbia, namely the Ministry of Slovenia and so on, and they did not get any answers, which is very interesting. You said a list was being prepared. I've already said that I've provided relevant information to this state institution, because they didn't know anything. I have to say that I already knew a lot in 2008 and 2009 when something might have happened. No one in the government wanted me to deal with this problem at all. You said we supported Kosovo because it supported this convention. That's not true. There are no Kosovos among the 20 countries that have ratified the Convention. Not among the signatories to this Kosovo either. Slovenia is only among the signatories, but we have not ratified it for three years, which is actually very strange, while America has not even signed this convention. It is interesting, however, that Mr Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs in Brussels, is lobbying all the weights to obtain visas as soon as possible or to abolish visas for all those living in Kosovo. One wonders whether Slovenia participates in this chain of drug traffickers, whether we are a link here, or whether our government is involved in this binding article. What's the matter? There's a lot of noise. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yes, laughter on this side is on the left, but there are many sounds in foreign diplomatic representations and foreign police units in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u27	The last statement, if it was meant to be serious, of course I must also seriously reject it. Otherwise, I have to say two. Your question comes from the submenu that we have a different political view of what Slovenia should do if what you say is true. There are no such differences between us, Mr. Ambassador. You mentioned earlier that some of the Committee informed the authorities in Slovenia of some of the information relevant to the subject matter. There is no Foreign Minister here, he is excused, and I will immediately order him to verify that such information has come to the Ministry and prepare a report on this. That way I'll let you know as soon as possible, there's no minister here right now, and I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. On this subject, which is very hot, especially in line with this report by Mr Dick Martiya, which revealed what was going on down there, I think it makes sense to open this debate also in the Slovenian Parliament. It's about our people, it's about people we can't just push aside. It is true that the Slovenian government cares much more about foreign citizens. Thus, according to official data, 42 thousand 460 foreigners have valid residence permits in Slovenia, and among them there are only a thousand 268 nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area. This is said to be 41 000 192 third-country nationals and the current residence permit also has 46 000 152 third-country nationals. Most of these are now, or very often, refugees from Western Sahara, Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Bolivia, in short, from where they come from, in fact, economic migration and not political affairs, because I think that Slovenia has granted international protection to only 208 people since 1995. This is said to be the silent support of the strange black labour market in Slovenia. And that's what the Slovenian government stands for. So in Slovenia there are about 100,000 people living on our account and, of course, the Government of this flat. If possible, they'll give them citizenship. What about our people? What about the situation in which our people live? Our governments don't care. The last time it was on TV, it said, I think six guinea pigs, blacks, from Sudan, who were talking about how nice they were in Maribor, because they have everything, the only thing that's wrong, the "frog us," they said. Probably after that TV show, our government had already given them apartments. How many young people in Slovenia get apartments? Damn it. How many young people get subsidies for not doing anything and coming to a country? Why don't you follow Mrs. Merkel's example, who put the matter differently? And why are you not following other European countries? Is it true that Slovenia will become a landfill for all those whom no one else will like? Now we've got about 100,000 of them, and he's hiding pretty well. How many more do you want? Therefore, I think it is important that we discuss this matter here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Zvonko Černač of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u31	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The Constitution in Article 2 says, "Slovenia is a legal and social state". And although we have talked a lot about whether this is still true in the last two years, in the case of the closure of the old Udbov archival material for the first time in the history of democratic Slovenia, the State authority, the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, has decided to act contrary to the law or that it will not comply with the law, even though it has itself been aware that it has acted unlawfully and it has also justified its conduct in writing and orally. Another state authority – Owl unlawfully restricted civil rights arising from law and constitution by violating the law. For the first time in the history of the independent state, parliamentary oversight of the work of intelligence and security services has been prevented. Both actions are incomprehensible for any democratic order anywhere in the world. If something like this had happened in a country where complete democracy reigned, the chairman of such an organ would have been immediately suspended. The fact that the State authority does not respect the law or prevent legitimate parliamentary control of its conduct in law means that the authorities have been taken over by individuals in their own hands by law means some kind of coup. In Slovenia, only legal professions and the public condemned this illegal act, not the country's top representatives. The government even advocates doing so. In their silence, all these directly support the violation of civil rights, the Constitution and the law. Slovenia has plunged dangerously into deliberate injustice, and the consequences can be unimaginable. Why should ordinary citizens stick to the laws and respect them if they do not have to, and they also make this public? Instead of taking decisive action against the perpetrators of illegal conduct, last week the Government tabled amendments to the Archives Act to the National Assembly following an urgent procedure to remedy illegal decisions. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I'm asking you: So who is the government of Slovenia? Law, law, or individuals beyond the law? Or worse. That perhaps we are still not ruled by those who ruled Slovenia under the former non-democratic regime? I'm asking you: What will you, as the most responsible in this country, do to ensure that this illegal situation, the violation of the law and the Constitution, is terminated and that Slovenia is once again a rule of law?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u33	Since it is my political focus, as someone would say, on solving the economic and social crisis, I think that, as it will say, I have been ordered, I will talk about it later, Director Sowe, I think in the fall, and only when the matter has obtained dimensions, as it may or by definition unjustifiably obtains them now, I myself, not at the direction or request of anyone, have come before the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. So I was the first president of the government to do this to talk about the problem that obviously arose. It is not my wish, nor my instruction that any body, especially if it is under the authority of the Government, should work contrary to the law. Everyone is obliged to respect the law and work within its framework. Since there have obviously been some decisions that, at least for some, seem controversial, even for the heads of those bodies, I have made this decision. First, let me take the initiative of the President of your party and convene a meeting of the presidents of the parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups on the amendment of the Archive Material Act. We will consult on this before it will be in the National Assembly, and if we evaluate it together, perhaps at the ministerial assembly a day later, that the arguments that this novel is not necessary or not good have convinced us to change our position. This is what I wanted to talk to you about the last time, as you saw, for an hour and a half to be honest with you on the committee responsible. Another time. I have ordered all three of them to participate in these decisions by Wednesday at the latest, as well as the Minister of Culture, who is responsible for the archive, to report to the heads of these bodies, the Head of the Sove, the Director of the Archives and the Secretary of the National Security Council. This report will be made available to the public and will show where the problem has become, where it has been observed, how it has been dealt with, and who will also have to determine whether they have acted illegally. You're saying that, we'll see if they've really acted illegally when we have all the reports that will be available to you. I also told Director Sova today that he would be at any time available to your committee to answer any questions in this area. And six brief findings for the second half of my answer. Firstly, the subject matter of the dispute is not the archival material of the State Security Service, which would arise in connection with the internal political functioning of this service, but with regard to its classical intelligence and anti-intelligence activities abroad. I'm not an acquaintance, you know, you're some of you, you probably understand – I, as far as possible, have been taught – the difference between these two areas. So let our citizens not feel needlessly that the government is trying to conceal anything about the functioning of the State Security Service on the inside. It's information that concerns the foreign and that, if they are, they may be sensitive. And here is the director of the archive procedure – and this is the second thing I want to say – he just broke up. The procedure is not completed, the procedure is terminated. The government is convinced that the best solution to the emerging problem is the new Law on the management of archival material, which will be decided by a special independent commission on public access to the content in question. The members of the Commission's authorised group for the supervision of intelligence and security services on their last visit to the premises of the Sova, which is 25 January 2011, were not prevented from exercising their control. But it will also have to be written in the report of Director Owl. As I told the Director of the Archives, I ordered the Director of the Owl and the Head of the Council Secretariat to prepare their report by Wednesday, if possible, and then the entire Slovenian public, as well as you who make the final statements, will be able to decide whether your claims are justified or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the response of the Prime Minister? Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u35	The question goes beyond the amendment of the law and the question goes beyond the individual questions or procedures that have taken place in this particular case. However, the surveillance was disabled. You also received a written note on this last Tuesday at the meeting of the Commission, in which this is clearly and unequivocally recorded. Although there is no need for prior notification in the event of supervision, this has been announced but has been prevented by content. You said you ordered Director Owl to be available to the commission. It's a very dangerous claim. The director of the Owl has to act on the basis of the law, the law tells him that it is available to the commission, and it does not need to be ordered by the Prime Minister, it is even harmful or wrong, but it shows an understanding of the problem that I am talking about here today. You said the focus of your resolution was on a priority solution to the economic crisis. We have not received any law following an emergency procedure at this meeting in this respect. However, we received at this meeting of the National Assembly a novel of the Law on Archives, by emergency procedure, without any grounds being warranted. There is no dispute between counterintelligence materials abroad. The subject of the dispute is the material of the former SDV, the secret political police, as set out in Article 65, paragraph 3, of the Archives Act. The fourth paragraph provides very clearly and unequivocally that in the event of doubt as to the availability of this material, the archival commission shall decide. Where was this archival commission? It wasn't there. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister, Who owns Slovenia? Does he rule the law, the law, or individuals outside the law? As the most responsible in this country for the rule of law, will you ensure that the violation of the law and the release of access to public archives will cease immediately? Will you relieve the Director of Sova and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and initiate appropriate disciplinary and criminal proceedings under official responsibility against them? Will you withdraw from the procedure the amendment of the archival law or the Law on Archives?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u37	As I have already said, there is no possibility that the Government or the political majority in the National Assembly would decide that the novel is not appropriate or not necessary, perhaps it will decide otherwise. Wednesday's meeting will probably also be dedicated to this content. That's the first thing. Second thing. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure and maintain respect for the legality of itself and of all its organs. There can be no doubt about that. If there is any illegality, we must act. As the chairman of the Soviet Union, I will surely do so if I assess that such a mistake has been made and that I will act in proportion to this error or illegal conduct. But before that, we must face the facts and determine whether your statements, Mr Chernač, are correct or not. I have also had a conversation with both of you today, with the chief of the Archives and the chairman of the Owl in the light of the question you have given me, and their statements do not convince me that I could easily frustrate your claims. That is why I also ordered that reports be prepared quickly to be made available to you, not only to you, but also to the Slovenian public, because, ladies and gentlemen, this government has no political interest whatsoever in protecting those who have acted unlawfully or unlawfully during the former regime. Pika, the dot is a dot. He has no interest. Therefore, we will do as the law says, certainly, and as I said, the procedure has been terminated, nothing has been decided. But I think it is right that the chairman of the archive, the chairman of the Owl and the Secretariat, Snava, give their reports, and then we can see for ourselves why they did so, what the motives were, or perhaps even politics gave any instructions — there were no such instructions. And once again, I assure you, because you, by the way, put it again, as stated in the letter I received yesterday, that the Slovenian government is very scrupulous in dealing with this problem, while looking indifferently at the problems of the economy and the social and the situation of the people. That is not true, in the last two years, we have bombarded the National Assembly with proposals, even listening to what you have to say to them, have often revealed to the Government that it is going through urgent procedures in the National Assembly with important decisions, and all of this was about economic and social life in the country, not that. However, I do not underestimate this issue, and because I did not underestimate it, Mr Chernač, I came before your committee, before which no President of the Government felt a duty to discuss such a problem with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u39	The opposition did not table amendments to this law in the parliamentary procedure, but was tabled by the Government, Prime Minister-respected. I do not know why the Government has not tabled an entire package of laws to be adopted and the measures to be taken by the economy and the population. One is therefore spoken and the other is being done, and I therefore propose that, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to this question. This debate should clarify what are the actual reasons for the unlawful conduct of the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Director of the Sova. That the conduct was illegal, Zvona Černač or the opposition does not say that the conduct was illegal, many legal experts, including the one who wrote the opinion, speak in January to cover the decision of the Republic of Slovenia Archive, which was written at the end of December. It was not until January that the decision which was unlawful was to be covered was written. That the conduct was unlawfully spoken by the Director of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, who has been in all correspondence since 24. 8. Further, when an application was made by Mr Omerza for access to this material, which should have been made available or secured within a month, he wrote down and also made public the fact that access to this material could not be impeded, that there were no formal reasons why such access should be impeded. And what happened? Anti-legal sticker marked "secret" by Owl on 4 October to this material. In this debate, it is necessary to clarify why this has happened, why this illegality has taken place. It is also necessary to clarify the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government, who has activated the National Security Council throughout this process, not for living things, but for the material of the former secret political police. There's been an 18th meeting. Ten. 2010 in which, in spite of any powers based on law, the Director of the Sowe, the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, someone from the Ministry of Justice, a representative of the National Security Council or a national security adviser from the Prime Minister's Cabinet, someone from the Ministry of Justice and this ad hoc group decided how to limit this access to this material unlawfully or how to find the basis for this illegal restriction in the Constitution itself, which was later rejected by Dr. Miro Cerar that it was not possible. But the interesting thing is, it keeps coming. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 10. was the meeting of this group, 19. 10. Sova from this archive material raised some amount of this material and carried it unknown until November 5th, following a statement by the Director of the Archives to the cabinet of the President of the Government or to this Secretariat for National Security. What happened to this material, whether something was added or taken away, is unknown. As a result, all these issues need to be clarified in this debate on the response of the President of the Government, because unfortunately no public assurances have been made that the illegal situation will be rectified immediately, so that the conventions against those responsible will immediately withdraw and restore legal status and confidence in the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I will ask some questions to which Slovenia should receive the answers as soon as possible. Does the statement made by the Director of the Securities Markets Agency, Mr Damjan Žugelj, argue that the central bank of Slovenia, as the supervisor of the banking system, had all poorly secured more than 100 million bank loans to managers? Has the central bank taken action in the cases of these poorly secured loans? How did she act? Do you think it was appropriate? Which of these two important Slovenian financial market regulators is right in this case? How will the Government take action in those cases where the State is the majority or major owner of the bank and will suffer business and financial damage due to such friendly and poorly secured loans for managers' purchases? Or when and when will the Government, on the basis of the provisions of the Company Act, which lay down the subjective liability of members of administrations and supervisory boards, initiate appropriate procedures and require the recovery of the damage caused by these persons? Who do you think is responsible for leading and coordinating such procedures? When are you going to engage in this type of conduct consciously and systematically against all members of the board of directors in the supervisory board of state-owned companies where anything went wrong? Even in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u43	Dear Mr. Ambassador Zerjav! It would probably be a legitimate target of your criticism if you allowed yourself to assess the direct functioning of independent supervisors of institutions. I can't allow myself to do this as Prime Minister. This applies to both the Securities Market Agency and the Bank of Slovenia. I can express my position, that all supervisory and regulatory institutions should, in accordance with the cooperation agreement signed by them, act in favour of the stability of the financial system and provide each other with information, support, both professionally and otherwise, in order to achieve this objective. The Constitution of our country in Article 152 provides that the Bank of Slovenia shall be independent or independent in its operation. According to the Banka Slovenije Act, members of its supervisory authorities are not bound to the conclusions, positions and instructions of the state authorities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no basis or competence to request data on the exercise of control, nor shall it give any instructions for action. Not in specific cases either. The current rules specify the tasks and responsibilities of the Bank of Slovenia. The Act on Banka Slovenije in Article 2 provides that Banka Slovenije report its work exclusively to you, i.e. to this high house, which is familiar with both the financial stability report and the financial supervision report each year. The National Assembly, however, has this role that you, honourable Member, expect from the Government. With regard to the identification of the responsibilities of the Supervisory Boards, I would like to point out that the members of the Supervisory Boards, which are now appointed by the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, are certainly obliged to comply with the legislation on the previous and this question of the Member States, should not be in doubt in this regard, and the rules and rules should also be taken into account for the possible non-compliance with the legal basis and the exploitation of their position in the event of proven guilt or negligence. As a result of the problems encountered in the management of state-owned or public-owned companies, I do not think it shows any change to the Company Act, which systematically regulates the area of internal relations, the rules or rules of the game for all those involved in the business of companies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has secured the provision of public interest, which may be related, by other means, with the establishment of a Capital Investment Management Agency to this end, with the aim of professional and responsible management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. I understand that an institution as important as the agency has some childhood diseases at the beginning of its mandate, if I may say so, as any such important institution could happen, which is given such important powers and tasks to the tradition of life and behaviour in the country, but I think it will eventually have the importance and role it plays. This is what we all rightly expect. On your specific question on how the Government will act in cases where the State is a majority or a major bank owner and will expect the Government to carry out in all cases investigation procedures and determine whether or not the offences have been committed by the administrations or supervisory councils, due to the friendly or poorly secured loans provided for in the buy-in. In addition, we expect that there will also be findings in the National Assembly's inquiry committee which will be able to use in these proceedings. However, as Prime Minister of the Government, I will propose a re-examination of the licensing of supervisors of financial institutions, I am thinking here of banks and insurance companies, and in line with this, I will consider supplementing the laws governing the functioning of banks and insurance companies. In summary, in order to avoid a systematic political assessment of the part of the management bodies in companies where the ownership country or the majority owner country is located, an agency has been established in accordance with the OECD guidelines and must ensure high standards of corporate governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u45	I cannot agree with the fact that we all agree together that there are many things wrong, but in some ways we claim that nothing can be done and that some independent regulators are responsible, which must not be touched and are untouchable. Who evaluates the work of these regulators? Doesn't anyone do that? And who do these regulators fit? I don't think that's acceptable. For some time now there has been a public debate or public conflict between the two regulators, the ATVP and the Bank of Slovenia, and no one just moves. Hard words have been falling, heavy revelations in this regard, in the fact that the whole country has been engaged for some time, a year or two, with tycoon credits burdening economic growth and the overall financial situation in that country. And yet no one moves like it doesn't matter. It is unacceptable, in my opinion, that despite a broad debate on the problems in the New Ljubljana Bank related to the necessary recapitalisation, and with all the facts on the table about so-called tycoon loans, no one answers, no investigations, no one investigating the former administrations, no one investigating the supervisory boards, nothing is happening. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: Will someone be responsible for this? Will someone in charge even ask you what they were doing at work? And I expect you to personally engage and encourage all the competent authorities to investigate these matters – both at Banka Slovenije and also at Nova Ljubljanska Banka, to come to the bottom of the court, to know what was going on, how, in what way, on what grounds are some [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u47	This question is no less of an interest in the ministerial assembly, and it is of interest to see whether such conduct was lawful, responsible, prudent and economical. If and to the extent that the government had jurisdiction by then, she also decided to make a trade, including for false reasons. Otherwise, as it is said to systematically regulate things, we have set up an agency in line with the OECD guidelines to be an independent body and to assess the conduct of the supervisory boards and administrations in the best possible way. I would also like to point out once again, Commissioner, that the National Assembly is considering two reports each year and that, I think, in a short time, it will consider both the Bank of Slovenia report and the ATVP report. Thus this high house will have the opportunity to have this debate, which you will require in accordance with the Rules of Procedure here, and to determine whether or not in legislation, and the Government is prepared here if we ourselves do not know how to find a solution for any of the grey zones in this legislation to advise us on this. We don't have any different interests here, I can assure you that. Both the Government and you want the rules to be clear, that everyone should respect them and those who do not respect them are properly sanctioned and no one is exempt. These are probably the positions and starting points that apply in this hall for all. If we can help each other, even in answering your questions, we will probably be grateful to each other, none of us here supports a privileged group that would have legal or political or any other illegal protection. Nobody. This political starting point, if any things are legally or otherwise not successful in terms of operation, we need to find out together if, where and how we can take a step forward. It's the government's wish. One of the six priorities of the government until the end of the mandate is the prosecution of economic and organised crime and the preparation of four laws, I think, the Minister of Justice, four laws in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mag. Crane, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. However, I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we also hold a broader debate on this reply. I absolutely agree, Mr President, that we should have the same criteria for all. If we compare two cases today, the Post of Slovenia and the New Ljubljana Bank, one gets the feeling that we do not have the same criteria. The Post Office of Slovenia is being persecuted and will probably be replaced in a short time, due to what is said to be controversial wages. It is probably not Slovenia's fault that we have problems in the financial system today. However, the new Ljubljana Bank is a completely different player and has a great impact on the stability of the financial system in Slovenia and, consequently, on the economic system, if I say so. I would expect to have the same relationship with one institution as with another, and yet we would look at what was happening in the New Ljubljana Bank. This is how I propose that we see who is responsible in Banka Slovenije, who is responsible in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, in the administration. Not only our representatives, but also the representatives of the KBC. Who's responsible? In the supervisory board there are different people, Slovenes, KBCs, not least workers' representatives, trade unions, by the way. They also have their representatives in the supervisory board, and they don't like to hear it. They also affect the business of companies: through the Supervisory Board and also through the administration. We should seriously open up a debate to get things to the bottom of this. And all together, in my opinion, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, of course with you at the head, should do everything and more to encourage all the authorities in this country to investigate this. It can't be like that! It cannot be that some are simply protected and nothing can happen to them. It can't be like that! And that we get the feeling that nothing just happens. It can't be like that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, will decide tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. A question for the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Joško Godec of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Maybe my friend Zerjava and I will get caught up in some words, but unfortunately I can't help it. The problem is the same. Dear Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! At its last meeting, the Government set out its priorities and tasks by the end of this term of office. Support for these priorities was verified and expressed at the coalition summit on Friday, 28 January. There we all agreed that the time had come for us to stop dealing with ourselves but with the problems of the country and its people. While it is difficult to point out which measure is most necessary, we want to make one of the most important measures to improve the functioning of the labour market in the DeSUS Group. The announced changes predict some unpleasant measures that could re-encourage the Slovenian public if they are not properly and clearly presented by the Government. Nor do all Members know all the proposed priorities of these last agreements at the coalition summit in order to be able to assess them as good or bad. I therefore ask you, as Prime Minister of the Government, or ask you to give the members of the National Assembly a more detailed presentation of the content of the agreements concluded at the 28th Coalition Summit. 1. 2011. Mr President of the Government, we expect a more detailed definition of the Government's action to improve payment discipline here. For all of us know the construction situation where subcontractors who have done their work honestly and conscientiously do not receive payment for the latter or, if so, through long - term judicial proceedings. And so, as of yesterday, healthy businesses are just before the collapse. We would also like to ask you after your assessment: Is there any other healthy construction activity in Slovenia at all? I also want to know: Does the Government possibly plan to complement and implement the measures presented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u53	So I must say, on behalf of myself, and probably also on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues in the Government, after a one-month debate on what is essential to Slovenia's or Slovenia's interests and its people over the next two years to the end of this mandate, that we together with the political majority in the National Assembly can formulate the following priorities: consolidation of public finances, improvement of the conditions for business operations, improvement of payment discipline, improvement of the functioning of the labour market, more effective prosecution of economic and organised crime and structural measures and institutional adjustments. Within these priorities are ready for adoption at the Government and for consideration in the National Assembly this year, this is the 27 laws. If anyone thinks it's conclusions, which are almost already due to the volume of tasks that await us, it's impossible for me to say the following. Last year, we took a decision on the exit strategy at the Government at a time like this. Three quarters of the 27 laws are now valid and effective. I am so sure that we will also get these 27 laws under the roof as much as possible this year. It turned out last year that we have taken action in regulating the economic and financial crisis to a variety of interests, traditions, lobbies, networks, as some commentators like to say, and triggered a series of revolutions, but it was necessary if we wanted to regulate some things, and we will continue to do so. Without it, without the rule of law and without the social state, I can't imagine a country that has its own economy. The government will also prepare everything for social dialogue. As we have done so far, we will try to reach the compromises that will lead to the best of our ability. But I have to say this. Again, it can happen that there will be no compromise laws in social dialogue. It will then be necessary to make a political decision whether the Government and the political majority assume their responsibility to decide whether to reform or not. At first, at the beginning of the mandate, the government was denied that it was not determined enough not to be brave enough. You can't tell her that today. It went through a series of structural changes that may have seemed too heavy or unnecessary or avoided in previous mandates. This time they are inevitable, and the Government has decided to accept our responsibility to send these reforms, the laws to the National Assembly, before doing as much as possible a social dialogue and together with the political majority, perhaps even more broadly, alone and the Government would like to consult with the opposition per partes, on every law, if possible and as much as will be possible. So maybe not all of them, but at least most of them under the roof. I don't know what the fate of the decision on pension reform will be, but whatever the case, we have decided to go boldly to prepare other legal frameworks that are necessary for Slovenia to continue to recover economically, what is going on, to remain socially connected, what is happening, to save at the same time those backlogs in the restructuring of our economy that occurred before and during the recession, in short, to consolidate the foundations of the rule of law. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is the focus of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in a good year and a half, as far as we are able to reach the end of this mandate. The government is aware of its responsibilities; it does not want to place the responsibility for decisions on the shoulders of citizens with referendums. We are responsible for decisions together with the political majority, but of course we are obliged to respect the Constitution if, by law, certain institutions have the right to request referendums. However, as it is said, this should also be stressed, the government wants and can assume its responsibility for these changes, can bring Slovenia out of the crisis, and in a year and a half it is with these priorities [[...]] [[End warning sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mr. Godec, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u55	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that this is an extremely important topic concerning the future of the Slovenian country and its economy and thus the future of practically all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The government's actions are those that will shape our destiny, so a wider consensus must be found in Slovenian society. Members of the National Assembly can also contribute greatly to the search for these solutions. Therefore, Members of the DeSUS to the President of the Government and to the Members and Members responsible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that we launch a broader general discussion on the planned priorities at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Given that this debate, if adopted, will take place [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u56	Comrade Godec, allow me to interrupt. Now was the opportunity to ask the President to complete the answer to the question you raised. And I understand that you want to make a procedural proposal. But right now, you don't have the right substantive reason. Do you want to set up an additional? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u57	on the priorities planned. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u58	President of the Government, this was now a place to complement your response. If you have something to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u59	If the National Assembly assesses that I think it is only in March, the President, that this debate can be held procedurally, then it will also discuss those laws that we will process within the framework of the plan that I have just presented. If you consider this to be useful and necessary, the Government is prepared to engage in such a dialogue, otherwise we have already gone to work and we want to bring most of these 27 laws under the roof by Christmas of this year. Before any of them immediately think that this is impossible, let them look at the light of the exit strategy. Three quarters of the laws are in force today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Godec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u61	If possible, my proposal shall be accepted and this proposal approved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u62	Anything is possible, but I will find that Mr Joško Godc's proposal for the State Assembly to hold a debate on the Government's response to his parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the question raised at the 23rd meeting of the assembly. Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšič will answer Anton Kolarič's question about the organisation of the European Basketball Championship 2013. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! We're, I think, March [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u64	A procedural question must be addressed to the President of the National Assembly, not to the President of the Government. This is very important. You have to tell the President of the National Assembly, because if you don't, I'm gonna have to take your word. You know, I hate to do this, but when I have to, I have to. Please, Mr Tanko, a procedural question to the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u65	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! I would like to remind you that, last year, when we discussed the package of measures to get out of the economic crisis put into the National Assembly by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we adopted several conclusions. Among them is that the government will report in thirty days [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u66	Dear colleague Tanko, this is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u67	I just want to remind you of this proposal now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u68	I understand that you have made a procedural proposal to ask the President of the Government to implement these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u69	That's exactly what I'm telling you right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u70	You didn't say that. That's how I well understood you. That's why I'm gonna take your word for it. Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Thank you. But I have to apologize. We have to stick to these rules. You wanted to discuss here a question that was not raised, we all understood each other well, such a letter will be received by the President of the Government and thank you very much for this initiative. Dr Igor Lukšič will answer Anton Kolarič's question about basketball.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u71	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, President of the Government, fellow ministers! The question was about the European basketball championship and the demands of individual cities, which would like to organise the basketball championship won by the Koskarska Association of Slovenia for 2013. The Ministry of Education and Sport has no direct commitments and obligations here, but more resources are available for the construction of halls. One is a European fund of approximately €7 million. We are waiting for these funds available in 2012 and 2013 to be channelled according to the needs of sport in 2012, 2013, which means, above all, for the basketball championship and for the university. A special commission has been set up for the Koskarska Linka Slovenije, which will finally propose to the Executive Body of the Koskarska Association of the City where this basketball championship is to take place. As you are aware, Novo mesto has recently decided where to set up a new hall, that is there in Portoval. There were several locations in the game. There are also Jesenice with its hall, Koper, Ptuj, who also wants to build the hall. In a way, Maribor is also in the game, which could kill two birds at one stroke with a multi-purpose hall, that is, a hall that would be suitable for the university, and at the same time a hall that could be suitable for the 2013 basketball championship. Nova Gorica also appeared with the possibility of cross-border cooperation. The basketball association of Slovenia is ready. I am confident that within two months they will arrive with the offer of halls, so that the congregations where they support this championship will decide whether they will go to the construction of new halls or whether they will go to the renovation of the old. In any case, I am happy – like most in Slovenia – that Slovenia won this European championship in 2013. For you, who have been monitoring this mainly from a distance, Slovenia may seem to have been the only candidate, but it has taken many steps where Slovenia had to demonstrate its ability to organise this championship, to have a good team at its disposal, to carry out it, to have the infrastructure at its disposal, and of course, which is also important that it has a good team, which will also attract the local public, to monitor the championship. President, that was my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. France Tsukati will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice greeting is also valid for the Minister of Health. I would like to ask you a question, as I have announced, about the Mutual. There have been crosses and problems with each other for many years. At first, the administration or management of the Mutual treated each other as if the funds of the insurers were their own resources. High prizes were given to each other. Then there was a very powerful attempt to form such a congregation that would be written on the skin of the administration. Then the director was replaced. And also the new director behaves very, very, very, very managementally, because there is a salary of about 10,000 euros a month. But now we have a decision by the European Commission that the status of the Mutual needs to be rectified because it is not in accordance with the non-life insurance directive, so it is not in accordance with the first or third Directive. The sentence will begin or be paid later, but it is already under way from December 1st. That is to say, as soon as we resolve the issue of Mutual, Status or Transformation, the greater this punishment will be. I'm asking you: What is your compliance scenario with the European Commission's requirements and what are your reasons for it? When will you resolve the question of the Mutual Finality and what effect would this have on the users, that is, the insurers? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u75	Dear President, dear colleague, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Perhaps the issue is a little wider, not just the Mutual, it is a voluntary health insurance for which Slovenia has been suing since 2006. At this time, in the last four or five years, it has moved from seven points to five points, the last two of which I will not talk about today, these are the points that should be removed from the compensatory scheme and that the requirement to include each in voluntary health insurance is withdrawn, the current five points remain, with no finality for the first two of the European Commission or an indication in the discussions that it will persist in the action. It is five provisions, the first of which is that half of the profits are earmarked for the development of insurance, the second, that it is always necessary to ask the actor for a possible price increase, that all those insurance undertakings abroad wishing to carry out this insurance in Slovenia must first ask the Ministry of Health that new amended insurance conditions should be notified and that prior consent of the Ministry of Health to the general operating conditions for the implementation of the supplementary health insurance must be obtained. The European Commission is demanding the withdrawal of these five points. The sentence or procedure has been valid for five years. After the last meetings, after a study at the Ministry, we decided to go to a comprehensive change in this health insurance. I don't think it's possible to hide, even from your question I've experienced a great dissatisfaction with this form. In my view, it is unnecessary to point out once again that, on the one hand, 15 years ago, financial stability was somehow ensured for a certain period, but solidarity between the rich and the poor has decreased. We both know that. The latest data over the last three years indicate that this compulsory and voluntary insurance scheme in some way also increases, let's say, unnecessary services. Also by transferring and reducing the share of compulsory health insurance below 50 %, this service is increasing. And a number of such deviations are mainly in the last period when the Institute for Health Insurance is lowering the prices of health services, as premiums or costs of such insurance are reduced. In some ways, it is suggested that the measures that we have been trying to implement in recent years are going to the search for voluntary health insurance companies, and I believe that this is a strong enough argument to approach the comprehensive reorganisation of health insurance in Slovenia, which in some way would eliminate at least these five European Commission requirements, may also respond to those other two points that are almost fatal at present. The estimates show that the abolition of compensatory schemes and the withdrawal of the obligation to each insured could be disastrous for certain groups of residents. The orientation is such that, in my view, a basket of rights should first be laid down in the standard of service, at the time of access to this service, as well as the groups to which this service is intended to be available. Such a basket should be covered by compulsory health insurance, i.e. by public funds. Assessments were also made on how much resources would be needed to achieve this for all citizens of Slovenia at the agreed time. We know that because of the long waiting periods, many people do not have the right that the Constitution and the law give them, and the rest of the services would be covered through different forms of insurance, i.e. the market mechanism. Since I took over the ministry, we have done a thorough analysis of what such a transfer would mean, and we have also developed a model and somewhere in one of the scenarios, if by a percentage we increase the contribution rate on the part of the employees, this would mean around 35 million budget deficits due to income. In the debates I hold in the professional circles, including the crisis ministers, I insist on accession to a comprehensive change. An additional analysis was also carried out and ordered, which would mean an overall reform of the social sector on fiscal sustainability and, last but not least, competitiveness. I hope we do this in time. In any event, I can argue that, after the last meetings, the first possible impact on our budget will not be until May 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u77	See, on this finding, that we will not, in fact, resolve supplementary health insurance, and we will not solve these dilemmas until we approach the entire Health Care and Health Insurance Act, the establishment of a basket of rights and so on. This has already been discussed by your predecessor, Mr Miklavčič, on a similar question from the Member States in 2009. I must say that we agree that we must say the decisive words in this law here, but in April 2009 the Government's normative programme arrived, namely the first normative programme of this government, which said that a bill would be tabled on the Government as early as August 2009. Of course it wasn't any of that. Last January, when you were not yet a minister, the government said that a proposal would come to the government in July 2010. It was nothing again. This year, however, we have just received a normative programme that says that by the end of the year by December 2011, this proposal will have come to the government. But this time it'll be nothing, we'll see about that. In any case, the deadline is extended every time, first three months, then six months, now it is twelve months, one year. I wonder how we can still believe these normative programs. Last month, you answered a question about the draft of this law: "The working group has not been appointed. The basic proposal consists of my advisor Dr. V. P.R. and the lawyer Mrs. S. G. Mr. Minister, I hope there will be something [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u79	Maybe a supplement. As I said at the end, a thorough analysis has been carried out since the acquisition, which would mean a complete transfer of voluntary health insurance to compulsory health insurance for the public financial system. One of the consequences would also be to increase the public financial hole, so further analyses are being carried out on how to do this. I myself said that a further decision was taken at the meeting of the crisis ministers a month ago to carry out a broader analysis of the impact of this change or of these reforms on public financial sustainability. We've been working in the healthcare system for a long time, and you've been in the political space, and you know that it's very difficult to make this change. Voluntary health insurance has been in preparation for a number of years, and so far no one has been able to make the effort to change that. I still hope that there will be so much political will and willingness to change that. I hope it doesn't stay for the next government. In extreme cases, the European Commission could benefit from a short or a change in certain articles, but given the European Directive adopted, given the high mobility, the compulsory and voluntary health insurance scheme had a negative impact on citizens. I appeal to this and pressure experts to carry out all these analyses, and I believe that this change, which is European-oriented, must be implemented. In the European area, public finances cover a basket of rights. With us, we cover it from two sources. And the European Commission denies that voluntary health insurance in this respect is in public good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask the Minister of Education and Sport in connection with the recent first results of the International Enrollment Survey 2009, which covered data on the competences of 15-year-old students in reading literacy, mathematical and natural literacy. Since these partial results have already been published and have also been responded to in the media by the professional public, I ask Minister Luksic: How do you comment on the first results of that study? What impact will school policies have on the future? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dr. Igor Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u83	Mr President, Member of Parliament, Ministers, Ministers, Members of Parliament! This research is now in line for Slovenia. In 2006, the first results were, in 2009, showing the results exactly at the reading literacy of some fall, not fatal, it is said that it is not a big slip, but it shows that it is right that we are concerned. These results for 2009 were published on 7 December 2010, one year of data processing. And that was December 7th. Right next week, I stopped by the Pedagogical Institute, who was doing this research, and I looked closely at what the questionnaire looked like, and wondered where our children were the worst and where they were best. On some issues, I do not think we need to be concerned because they were very bad because they were designed not so much for the art of our youth, at least in my opinion, but more for the art that is conditioned by some cultural environment that we do not share. However, some questions were surprisingly poorly answered, and there certainly is much work needed to improve such results. I immediately met with the chiefs and directors of the Education Institute, the Education Office. We've worked together to figure out what to do now. We agreed to launch the measures immediately and these measures are already part of the annual work plans, in particular the Education Institute. In addition, we have agreed to go to a call for funds from the European Social Fund to raise cultural capital and through this mechanism to certain schools, in particular where we estimate that social capital is even worse after the results we see from the national knowledge check and from graduation, have brought in additional people working with these students even more intensively. In addition, since we have seen roughly where the trend is going, I have formed a group led by Professor Justin, who has organized the transformation of curricula by reducing, the task was 20%, the scope of curricula, and thus allowing teachers to pay particular attention in primary school to the reduced level of knowledge while at the same time increasing the complexity on this basis. This is something Singapore has done since 2007/2008. As you know, Singapore is a country where they achieve the highest results. Thus, despite having achieved very good results, it is true that they were among the first three countries, they have decided to reduce and increase the complexity of basic matters. I think we have found out where the problem is, that we are on the right track and that these measures will lead to better results. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you for that part of the answer. Mr Minister, there are few who point out gender differences in educational achievements. There are also those who are concerned about the differences in educational achievements in relation to individual provinces. I have in my hands a study on the situation in Europe and measures taken. And it can be agreed, in particular, with that part of the study that says that it is probably not possible to compare educational achievements between countries as much as within each country and that the gender difference is not significantly more important than the socio-economic differences between students and their achievements. If reading literacy is considered the basis of all other skills acquisitions, then it is interesting to note that girls in reading literacy deviate substantially from boys’ achievements, while in mathematics the difference between both sexes is very small and in nature almost none. It is, however, something where it might be possible to think whether a boys' school is a big enough challenge to be taken as something with which their educational achievements can also be praised in front of peers and in society, whether it is that problem, or perhaps their reading expectations are not as high as in girls, as the results suggest that girls prefer more difficult reading, but boys, for example, not stereotypically, more information gathering. Thank you for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u86	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, President. A lot of questions have been asked here, and I'll start in the back. In these findings, which have been known since before, they have not come to the agenda only with this study, we have tried to impress young boys in particular or to create some need for reading, particularly in those who are less interested in reading by reason of the rule, it is said, in those who have lower social capital and are from a more demanding environment. So we engaged members of the Slovenian football team and asked them to motivate our youngest in some action with the book. We've done this, or it's only going around the Internet, and we're going to keep doing this. So it's kind of a trifle in this mechanism. Next thing. We're celebrating a 50-year-old reading badge this year. The Brena brand is something that raises reading habits in Slovenia, but unfortunately we find that there is no real commitment these days that children do not insist once they get on this path. Here we are looking for some solutions to go into this story more strongly, more organised than we have been going lately. The gender difference is something that has been showing up for the past ten years and that is being pointed out in Europe as well, but we do not have the right answers. We also have no answers because, like in the case of girls in the previous decades, when it comes to some type of type, we could say that insufficient motivation, if not in some way a disguised display of good achievements, that this is also happening now, only in a more subtle, different way, because it is simply impossible to accept the the thesis that now suddenly generations of girls are more capable than girls in previous generations and at the same time compared to boys. This must be the task that awaits us. It's about social differences. In the case of national knowledge testing, I spoke to seven school directors who are achieving the worst results and we found that these schools are both in Ljubljana, Maribor, Prekmurje, that the differences between schools are much greater [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm afraid we're out of time. One more time. Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u89	Dear Minister, Mr President! Since the beginning of this government and since the performance of the former Minister of Health and his experts, there has been a threat and also statements by the competent authorities that certain maternity centres in Slovenia will have to be closed. Of course it's on the ground. People organized themselves, civil initiatives gathered and collected several signatures, handed them over to the minister, even though he didn't want to take them at first. Such an atmosphere also affected politics. Members from these areas also needed and wanted to listen to people and we are concerned about what is happening to this health policy. Recently, a bad week ago, the Ministry of Health published a strategy for the development of gynaecological and maternity activities and is currently in public debate. The Health Committee met last week on Friday exactly, and there we were able to face different views. The different views of the profession were particularly interesting. On the one hand, experts from larger centres and on the other hand experts from smaller centres who were not of the same opinion whether smaller maternity centres are useful or useless or more or less safe or much better or worse. The views were very different. So the profession isn't uniform. The Health Committee has also drawn the attention of coalition and opposition Members to a series of shortcomings and insufficient bases, as well as to a lack of analysis on the basis of which relatively reliable conclusions have been adopted. And these conclusions are that the midwives are supposed to have at least a thousand births a year, so it would be good to have 3 to 4 C-sections a week, to be born on 14 days of twins and so on. We have not been informed of specific professional arguments why these norms are safe and only correct, because, as I say, some experts from smaller maternity centres have advocated the authenticity of smaller births as more successful. There have been a lot of comments already on this committee, and in fact, the minister has received a kind of correctional exam. Although the Minister wanted to have, on the basis of this discussion, an action plan, how and what, it happened that the Committee had adopted some conclusions which in fact say that the Minister should, on the basis of these comments, draw up a new proposal or a complementary proposal for a strategy and present it again to the National Assembly. I'm asking the minister: Will you do that? Will you respect the position of parliamentarians, coalitions and oppositions and correct the strategy in accordance with the comments made in the public debate and submit a strategy to the public debate again before any other action?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dorian Marusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, colleague, Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Mag. The visceral! Not just that, more than that, because I accepted this city with all my responsibility. I have been working in the healthcare system for 22 years, for the last 11 years in different positions, from the professional director today to the minister. I also studied the procedures of my predecessors. More or less, everyone took a similar route. They first came into the professional circles, where they were to prepare analyses that would later add additional analyses, which would be examined in a public debate in local environments, and then in appropriate environments, in the Government or in Parliament, they would be confirmed for this strategy. I am so alone, I think four or five strategies have led to the publication and we follow these strategies. I'm thinking the same thing here. Why, at the outset or before the start of a political debate, this can be determined by everyone, and I will no longer go into this because I think the debate has gone too far. In any event, it is right for the public to know that we are talking about another document adopted by the Health Council and is talking about a strategy for the development of obstetric and gynaecological activities by 2020. In front of me, seven ministers and ministers were invited or asked by the profession to do something because, despite having an extremely high level of gynaecological-natal service, there are many problems. We have an extremely good statistical system where there's a lot of analysis. And if I may say in the shortest word, the cadre is not sufficient for such a layout of primary, secondary and tertiary gynaecological-natal activities in the Slovenian space. If only they strictly implement the Directive and the Labour Relations Act and the ability of gynaecologists and obstetricians to function, all those who operate at a secondary level, which does not take into account the limit of fifty-five years, would be used only to maintain uninterrupted health care. And some of these were cited. I believe that the right approach is such that the profession takes a look at the data it has, how this activity should develop over the next ten years. Economic analyses should then be added, the action plan should be drawn up after adoption, and such a plan should also be endorsed in an appropriate forum. I decided, in accordance with my conscience, that I would put this document before the public debate, knowing that it would probably be a major criticism, because somehow it wanted to be discussed as soon as possible without an economic analysis being carried out, and I have repeatedly stressed that without an action plan being drawn up, and, of course, I would like to listen to the public in the public debate. The points you are talking about were opened in another document, which was created in September 2009 and only talks about the reorganisation of maternity wards, and in this document we are talking more broadly. In any case, we will also have to decide in Slovenia when and how we will mature to introduce professional standards: how many specific interventions, operations – not only in gynecology and maternity, but also in others – will have to be done by a department, by an individual to provide a routine. In the European, global and even Slovenian spaces, we have already set these guidelines, even before gynecology and obstetrics. I believe that, in different environments, they define themselves differently, because it means that some are facing an important development challenge, and we will have to do so ourselves. I will not make all the comparisons that have been mentioned in the past with other systems, but also in the healthcare sector, certain minimum standards are set that provide skills and ensure a good exit to treatment. We will have to make this and some other changes so that we can build a future network with existing staff. However, since there is so much debate about this, we will also have to ask ourselves if tomorrow we should put on a new network of obstetrics and gynecological obstetric wards, or whether it should be as it is today. I only hope that we will not come out of this debate that today's network is too small, that new hospitals, not just maternity hospitals, will have to be set up. This is a trend that Europe does not follow. Europe is following specialist outpatient activities, the primary level, not strengthening hospitals and secondary structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. You want to complement the Minister's response? Please, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u93	Yes, of course I do. It was not answered whether, on this basis, the revised strategy would be put back into public debate or followed by a public debate the next step – the Action Plan. I'd really like an explicit answer. What is in the interest of Members and also the public and users of health services? It is in their interest that they have a professional service, that they have access to this service and that the economy is holding back the right funding for these services. All these three aspects must be taken into account in any intervention in the exercise of health care activities and in the provision of these services. The profession is not uniform, whether small obstetrics are more or less safe, or are large than even some experts in the gynecological-natal profession call them, large establishments, industrial plants, where human numbers, offer more returns, better services. The profession here is not uniform, and this debate has also shown this. I hope that the public debate will also show this. So it's clear that if the wards in the field are closed, the accessibility will be impaired. And it is also clear what the Minister has said that he has not yet calculated, that is to say, the economic dimension is not yet there. Why, then, do we conclude that obstetrics are too much and need to be reduced? There are no compelling reasons, dear Minister, whether this will save us less accessibility, because there are no professional reasons. Once again, the Februarys of different sizes of maternity wards are very different here. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Do you personally feel that when you embarked on this reform, is the maternity in Brežica meaningful and stable, according to your concept? Will mothers, such as those from Bizellski or Pisec, who have 20 minutes before their birth in Brežica, be able to give birth at a maternity home that will be half an hour away from their home, or will they have to drive further, even an hour away from the maternity home?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u95	Yeah, maybe I didn't get the first question right. The public debate started before the debate on the Committee and the document is in public debate, and I think that next week I will also attend the Tribune in Brežica, where we will continue the debate. But it is understandable that part of the profession in very small obstetrics does not agree that they may not agree with any other direction in large ones. Nevertheless, this dilemma has been set across Europe, with at least two models: the lower limit is set at 1,000 or 500 in European countries. Under this, it is rarely released at national level. What kind of network will it be, allow me, allow me so much time to conclude the public debate that after this public debate we will include all the comments that will also arise in environments where this will in one way or another affect them if there is a change. I'll keep talking on probation. Then we will carry out economic assessments if this is even to be carried out. Then I will return to the committee and present this document, as we agreed on Friday, which I do not take as a correctional exam myself. I take only that at a time when the profession was preparing a document, you took it that you have different approaches, but here I am not talking about civil society, which I respect, but I am talking about that the public debate has turned completely different. But you have to be aware of something. I announced what we're doing today 11 months ago when I told you about all the professions. I and as we have undertaken the maternity-gynocology service, we will also have to undertake other activities in the Slovenian space. Pediatrics, anesthesiology, family medicine are writing their strategy on how to manage the health system with the available staff before the needs we have in Slovenia by 2020. Our estimates are that we will have to provide substantially more resources than we have today, otherwise we will not be able to respond to the health needs of the population and there will be a need to reorganise against specialist-ambulatory activities and against strengthening the primary level. I do not give up here or are very similar to all European trends. Of course, this procedure will take many years. You can't do that overnight. You must be aware that 15 or even more years of working personnel policy in the Slovenian space has been quite consistent, unplanned and we have very large gray zones and personnel that we have in the Slovenian space, difficult to meet all the needs that we have in space today. If I say again: let the public debate be concluded, I will take part in this, prepare all that has been loaded, and then we will reconsider on the committee whether we are mature for these steps. However, I hope that the number of these births will not increase in the future. But if so, those who promise, please come up with calculations on how they will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, mag. A viscous?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u97	Yes, I have a procedural proposal. I propose that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, a public presentation of opinions or a debate be held on the Minister's response. Indeed, this debate may also be part of a public debate on this law or this strategy. It is also appropriate to allow parliamentarians, not just members of the Health Committee, to express their views around this strategy. In fact, it is an extremely important topic, which is essentially a precedent; it is also a precedent for other parts of health, pediatrics and so on. As the Minister himself said, this strategy will be followed by other strategies and will significantly cut into accessibility and, last but not least, into the quality and economy of the provision of these services in the Republic of Slovenia. And it is right that all the people’s electors speak about it, and that is also what we say. The Honourable Minister. The third time you didn't tell me: Will this public debate be followed by a re-examination of the document to the public debate? For on the Health Committee you have received by coalition Members a number of criticisms that the analysis is flawed, the figures are incorrect, that there are no compelling grounds for concluding these strategies as well. It is not true, Minister, that this strategy does not recommend the extent of births in hospitals. So! Well, it's not one other document. And on what basis, for example, is it determined that the maternity ward must have at least a thousand or an optimum number of 500 births? I would even believe that these standards are on a particular gynecologist or obstetrician, and this goes to the maternity ward, no matter how many employees he has. It is said that this service does not relate at all to the number of employees involved – as by the way. So it has been estimated that these conclusions were based on insufficient bases. I am afraid that if it is ignored here, not least the Members and the conclusions of this public debate, we will get some deformed solution that none of us wants. And one more thing, Mr. Secretary-General. You said you respected civil initiative or civil society. You didn't want to take 20 thousand signatures from civil society, you rejected them first, and then they probably taught you it wasn't the wisest, and you accepted them. Members wouldn't have responded to this issue if your experts hadn't announced it in public. I was on the committee quoting the statements made by the members of the professional council on this, and the insults were among them. Therefore, I think it would be important to know from the Minister also his assessment: Are obstetrics in Trbovje, Kranj, Brežice and other smaller obstetrics quality for health services or problem; will we maintain and upgrade them in terms of expertise and equipment, or will we close them? And I hope with all my might we can build these maternity wards.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, will decide tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. Franz Puksic will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development, pointing out that the Minister of Finance has apologized. Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, presidents, ministers and ministers! On November 15th, I asked the Prime Minister President Borut Pahor in the matter of drawing on, using European funds and the President of the Government, he replied, taking the sheet of paper, and he began: "If they have written me an answer, it is most correct for me to read the answer." And then he read the answer in which it was written that the government was trying to make the best of the pumping in order to be as successful as possible. Among other things, he read that everything depends not only on this government, what it is to draw on funds. This was prepared by Dr. Gjerkes, Minister of Finance and then Minister of Regional Policy. Just a few days later, 24. 11. This means that when they wrote a reply to the Prime Minister, both ministers also wrote a letter to all other ministers and the content was significantly different. This means that what the President of the Government will say in Parliament, he will answer to the Members, is one letter of goodwill. However, as they were aware of the reality of the problem, they wrote to ministers, but this letter also came out and was even published in the newspaper, a so-called letter concerning the acceleration of European cohesion funds and the preparation of claims for reimbursement. My question is for both of us, and primarily because the Minister for Finance is responsible for payments and payments, the Minister for Regional Policy is responsible for the implementation of calls, inflows and inflows on operational programmes. That's why I'm asking the first question: What about the tides and tides and were they realized in the last year as foreseen in the budget? However, I would ask the Minister of Regional Policy to provide details for all three operational programmes, cumulatively or after years, as he wishes, by the end of 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A comparison of drawback performance in the period 2007-2008 and 2009-2010 at the level of all three operational programmes shows that 58% of the funds were deployed in the period 2009-2010 and 42% in the period 2007-2008, which proves that drawdown performance today is not due to the success of the 2007-2008 processes, but rather to efforts throughout the period. A similar relationship is found for confirmed operations as 57% of operations or projects have been confirmed over the whole period over the last two years, while 43% of operations or projects have been approved in 2007 and 2008. In the case of payments from the State budget and certified expenditure, the ratio between 2007-2008 and 2009-2010 does not even make sense, as most payments represent actual implementation of projects linked to the period 2009-2010. After a review of the value of certified instruments after each year together for all three operational programmes, we see that in 2007 the instruments for EUR 374 million, for 915 million, in 2009 800 million and in 2010 960 million were confirmed. This means that, together, the instruments that have been validated so far have been worth around €3 billion, we are talking only about the European co-financing work. However, if we add Slovenian participation, it has been jointly confirmed for €3.5 billion of instruments. These instruments shall, however, include public tenders and directly validated information. That I won't be too long. The table of signed contracts shows that there were EUR 115 million confirmed in 2007 and EUR 414 million in 2008 and EUR 285 million in 2010 and EUR 253 million in 2010. To get a real picture of the 2010 activity, it would make sense to include an additional 200 million euros from the outstanding public call for economic centres. Taking this further into account, the value of the signed contracts is EUR 440 million. This means that they have together been cumulatively signed contracts worth a good two billion euros. We speak only in the European part of co-financing. If we add Slovenian participation, this value is 3.5 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Besides, I don't know how I'm gonna get an answer to that part I wanted from the Minister of Finance. Indeed, some data from the Ministry suggest that some over 30 million planned revenues from the EU budget to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia were made in this year and only around 69% or almost 300 million and slightly less than the inflow. On the other hand, expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the Brussels Treasury was realised at 96 %. That means you have to give to Brussels what belongs to you, but you get back what you were successful at implementing projects. Or if we look at it differently, these data show that the net inflow from the Brussels cashier to the boars is 52%. This means that almost half of the budget came into the Republic of Slovenia as planned. I want to know what the minister is going to say. How much does that percentage of unrealised inflow into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia have to be to be held accountable for what? This means, if 52%, that this is obviously enough for this government. As for the Minister for Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, this is the case. If there were two billion signed contracts for three billion, I am interested in operational programmes: How much was paid from the RS budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you. I will explain to you on a procedural basis that only half a minute has been left for the Minister of Finance to answer, which means that there is probably no point in asking him an oral question. But you can ask a written question or at the next meeting ask the Minister of Finance a new question. Now the answer to the supplementary question, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I can provide you with information that applications submitted to the Ministry of Finance in the period 2007-2010 have been submitted for a European work of 911 million 393 000. The certified claims for reimbursement to the European Commission, which were submitted to the European Commission on the basis of reimbursement, amounted to 731 million 839 thousand. Here I have four tables, which is for all the operational programs together and for each individual. And since there are a lot of numbers here, we'll be forwarding these tables to you tomorrow, if you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u106	Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u107	President, I have a suggestion that the Minister's response – and given that the Minister of Finance is not here today and as you said, I agree with you, but perhaps half a minute is too short to say anything – and we are having a public debate in the National Assembly. In fact, given that the period 2007–2013 has been overrun or overhanged in the second half and that several times the question has been raised – and also, if I look at Dnevnik, Monday, December 6th, when they asked Minister Križanič a question, namely, that Slovenia will not successfully draw all the funds from 2007, to which it was entitled, to the Ministry led by Franz Križanič, we have not received an answer. So it would be right to answer, because I have asked myself a few questions, for the first time, whether formula n + 3 31. 12. Cut off one part of the funds from the Brussels Treasury, how much it cut off and how much money we will never get into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia again. Secondly, the debate on the other calls, if the Minister said that it had been awarded for 3 billion, if 4.2 billion were available, means that it was only somewhere in half of the tenders because, as the Minister himself said, how much was certified and how much back-up you get, according to some data, it was rejected by the Brussels Treasury for more than 300 million and several million euros within 11 months. I believe that then you repeated the procedures and received some of them, and you probably lost some of them forever. This means that the debate on the use of these European funds, which is actually the only fresh and real money in our country for investment, would necessarily be necessary here in the National Assembly. And especially because I know that you have gone into amending the operational programmes, and also whether you have been given an agreement already on all the changes you have made to the European Commission, so that certain things may change and in the sense that it will be more successful to draw funds into the future, but not that the net inflow will only be 52.2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Puksic's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development to his question of the mission will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to the Minister for Environment and Space will be raised by Mr Lojze Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for the Environment and Space a question related to the change in the destination of land and the construction of the best agricultural land. We all probably agree that changing the destination of agricultural land and building these in recent years has become a very big problem, a serious problem, a worrying problem. With regard to data on this, the Minister of Agriculture always warns, points out – this is also done by the former Minister, Mr Pogačnik – that we have, according to this data, a frightening information that we have only 880 square metres per inhabitant of quality land to produce food. Therefore, the views of the new amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act were commendable and it was necessary to protect the best working land, to increase the production and production of domestic food and to preserve the countryside in life and so on. Therefore, it may also be incomprehensible for the Government to decide, with such care for the best agricultural land, to start the activity to build the connection from the A1 Koper-Šentilj motorway, from Šentrupert to Velenje. This route, despite the great opposition of the civil initiative as well as the profession, is located in the middle of the Savinja Valley, by the village of Braslovč, and will destroy the vast majority of the best agricultural land of the first category, where the permanent plantations of hops are built on which the Trnava-Brije irrigation system is also built. I'm Minister of Agriculture for the month of November, Mag. He asked in writing how, as a competent minister, he would decide on the issue of consent and on the opposition to the route. The answer was very good, optimistic, the answer was that the ministry would propose to examine all the different solutions of the second route, but we know that the facts are different now. On 6 January, the Government adopted a decision, a regulation on temporary measures to secure space management pursuant to the decision to initiate the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for State Road, as well as the mandate of the Minister for the Environment to submit a proposal to the Regional Court of Velenje and the District Court in Žalec within thirty days of the entry into force of the Regulation to record provisional measures in the Land Book.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u110	Mr. Minister Mag. Thirsty, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is exactly the same as it was the first time, and also in the process of adopting this State Spatial Plan, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food issued a negative opinion on environmental report 350/137 etc., dated 12. 1. In view of the finding that an appropriate comparison or evaluation of the road connection to Arja Vas was not made, the adoption of that Regulation does not affect the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in this negative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u112	Mr. Posedel, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u113	Yes, please. I was not surprised by this answer, Mr President, because it is not the first time that the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture is completely different from that of the Ministry of the Environment. Just a few days ago, in the municipality of Braslovče, we had a very clear picture of how the spatial plan of the municipality of Braslovče was adopted. The Ministry of Agriculture issued a negative opinion, the Ministry of Environment and Space gave a positive opinion by harmonising the municipality and the Ministry of Agriculture. This has not been done and is now looking forward to the building on land, which according to the position of the Ministry of Agriculture was preserved for agricultural production because it goes, as it were said, to very good and quality land in this municipality. It is therefore unusual that all procedures are carried out as if nothing is happening at the Ministry of Agriculture, that is not opposed by a civil initiative, by profession, agriculture, economy, and that it is a decision on this route so that even in the Shaleska Valley they ask whether it is a development axis, to develop from Celje to Celovac together with Velenje, whether it is possible to develop a pocket that will mean a blind intestine from the port of Koper to Šostjanje or even, God forbid, from the river to Šostjanje to transport a certain cargo. That is why I think it would be very appropriate for the ministries to harmonise in this implementation of the spatial plan and to take into account, in particular, what they are doing practically all the professions, what farmers are doing, so that these hectares, which are now on the highway, are also in strange ways chosen to take the route forward, but not to explore the route that has been ready for decades, is to say the connection to Arjo Vas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u114	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u115	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This is a story that began to take place more intensively in 2007 and the first milestone of this event was September 2008, when the Government adopted a Decision on the launch of the State Spatial Road Plan from the Šentrupert on the A1 Šentilj-Koper motorway to the Velenje South connection as a basis for the preparation of the VAT. The procedure for preparing the VAT has been followed since the adoption of the decision in accordance with the rules and established practice. We are currently in a coordination phase with the Ministry of Agriculture, but I must say that there is at least one ministry in the whole of this story, which we include, this is the Ministry of Transport. In deciding on the route in 2008, the Ministry of Environment and Space was not even crucial. As regards the regulation adopted in January, it is one of the steps of the whole story of the preparation of the VAT and that regulation does not prejudge in any way either any later consideration or a later decision on perhaps even another route. However, this is just a reservation that, if possible, this measure is necessary. So the profession responsible for placing spatial arrangements was, as we said, proposed the F2 variant in autumn 2007, then this option of evading land became a variant of F2-2, where it was optimized, where it took more account of natural conditions. In such a choice of connection, this F2-2 is the most likely to be done with regard to circumvention of land. I would also like to point out that the whole story around the third axis is quite current, and it is this government's wish to do something on this third axis as soon as possible, so our ministry is ready to work as intensively as possible on the preparation of the plan, no matter what the possible change or correction of this 2008 route will be. And that's what I'd like to say about Braslovč and the story about the O.N. Our ministry will soon, if it isn't already, submit an opinion to the Constitutional Court, because it turned out that because of our behaviour as an UN, it later turned out to be a different direction. We have detected this and are acting in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u116	Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Look, these ways of transforming the best agricultural land into buildings that are designed for building, not only happened in the municipality of Braslovče, but it was also if you look at other municipalities, which is a normal system of playing procedures, so that with such alarming data on the best agricultural land [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u118	Mr. Posedel, you will speak of procedurality.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u119	I will, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you for continuing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u121	I'll make a procedural proposal first. [[...]] I will propose a debate on how the National Assembly deals with this matter, which the Minister himself has said is very unusual and very topical. It is true, however, that it began with a written session in which this decision was taken under the old agenda. And that all the opposition of the Minister of Agriculture fighting for agricultural land, all the efforts of the civil initiative, all the arguments of the profession which objected to this decision, because it was taken very unusual to violate the road design law, because it is written in that it will be necessary to build another four-lane in 15 years, that the European Resolution on the Protection of the Ground has been violated, that the municipality of Braslovca, the lower-Savina municipality, the entire economy of the Lower Savina Valley, has been opposed to this, and that the train is still going on, apparently with the desire to make this route as soon as possible. That a large and incomprehensible decision has also been taken by dividing the third development axis into five smaller sections and that it is, apparently, only this part from Šentrupert to Velenje. I therefore suggest that, with all the activities, with all the decisions – not least, together with the civil initiative and colleague Richtar, we send a request for revision twice, both in December 2008 and then in February 2009, at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government – nothing has happened! It is therefore appropriate to hold this debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u122	The proposal by Mr Alojz Posedel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and Food and the Minister for Environment and Space will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Rudolf Petan will raise the question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In Slovenia we have long faced the problem of lack of doctors. With great difficulty years ago in Maribor we achieved the establishment of another medical faculty, while it is important to stress that the medical faculty in Maribor needs new and, above all, larger spaces. Some €30 million of European funds are also provided, but it has been delayed for a year and a half, and I would say it is delaying the construction of new premises. On 9 January this year, according to 14 days ago, the dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Maribor, Prof. Dr. Ivan Kranjc, had a press conference or statement, which I collected from the media, and there stated that this delay in construction was enormous and irreparable. So far we have lost at least 80 students in these delays, and this is a whole generation of new doctors who can currently join Maribor. Although Slovenia is severely short of doctors and there is a lot of interest in studying every year, there are only sixty students per year, while since the construction of the new premises there could be between one hundred and one hundred and forty. The dean also stressed that the training of doctors in Slovenia is at a very high level, supported by state-of-the-art technology and in line with European standards, which he cannot claim for doctors from abroad, especially for those who have studied in the countries of south-eastern Europe. The standards of education followed by both medical universities in Slovenia are so high that doctors, who will now be imported from the republics of the former Yugoslavia, do not satisfy them. Therefore, in his view, strict control of the knowledge of the "imported" doctors – of course, this was imported in the nickname – is necessary; not because there is something not written in the books, but because they do not have the technological tools that we have in Slovenia. As he said, at the University of Maribor, more than €2.3 million have recently been invested in technological aids, currently studying 567 students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels of 80 students. Next year, however, they will increase the entry by ten people, because this is the maximum that can be achieved in current working conditions – but because of spatial problems. It is said that Slovenia has a teaching base for doctors' education, but there is no room to extend the entry, which is contrary to the Ministry of Health's claim when we passed the last law on how to import more easily – I will use the same term used here – doctors from third countries. Please, Mr. Minister of Health: How do you comment on that? It's actually a profession statement, I picked it up from the media. In the second part, I will also ask a question for the Minister for Higher Education, who will be more written to him on the skin, but I don't care who answers. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u124	Mr. Marusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u125	Honourable Vice President, colleagues and colleague, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for this opportunity to deny the statement given after my visit or visit to the Government in the Podravska region, which we have also demented. I also don't understand why such statements. The dean with whom we had a longer conversation on the phone also states that. And first, I'm gonna make a quick comment on the marriage. He actively participated in the preparation of these articles and later, and more or less we summarized his guidelines. But I'm well aware of the problems both medical schools have. I have pointed out several times what another medical faculty in Slovenia means, and I also participated as State Secretary in its creation. I pointed out, however, that the Slovenian health system as a whole, we are talking about all professors, masters, assistants and all other doctors, reaching the upper level of additional staff education. With the law that was passed, we have, like, six to seven months ahead of the so-called Blue Directive, which comes into force in June. I regret the name as you put it. It's about not importing. It is about releasing or civilising the process of recognition of professional qualifications for doctors where the need for them will be expressed in the environment of health homes, hospitals, concessionaires. They have to interview them, assess whether they are ready for the challenges offered by the health system in Slovenia, and then by the procedure we have prepared together, both with both medical universities and with the Medical Chamber, and simply arrange legal procedures, put these doctors in Slovenian space. Finally, because RTV Slovenia made a completely wrong and wrong statement of mine, which would, of course, be unacceptable, given that I have a degree in the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana, that medical schools in Slovenia produce bad doctors. No! No! Excellent doctors! However, I am sure, and this is also claimed by the representatives of both medical schools, for the two million people we are approaching or at the upper limit of the capacity of quality doctors. I would like to double or triple myself, but we need to be aware that there are two million of us and that more than that health system can't. In fact, medicine, medical and dental studies are conducted in direct contact with the patient and more than one system is unable to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u126	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Well, I hope that's why the Dean of Medical School won't be relieved because he was hoping to tell the truth or whatever he thought. But, well, let me get on with it. 25. 1. In 2011, it is said that less than a week ago, Mr Brumen, Secretary-General of the University of Maribor, stated that the University had accepted the request of Meteorit that members of the State Audit Commission be excluded from the process of selecting the architect of the Maribor Medical Faculty building. Informally, this means that the matter will now rumble in parliament and the construction itself will continue for a few months. This requirement means the appointment of all members of the State Audit Commission because of the irresponsible statements made by one of the members to the media. Someone in the State Audit Commission is supposed to tell the media in advance what decision the Commission will take. Someone was a little irresponsible and said that – which, of course, I agree with. The latest complication, according to the Secretary-General of the University of Maribor, means that these decisions of the State Audit Commission will not be expected by the end of this week. The fact is, it states that "this paper will have to be decided by someone else, not the University of Maribor," he said. According to informal statements, the procedure for starting the construction of a university building could thus be delayed for an additional six months. The whole project is already one and a half years behind schedule, and European funds are certainly at risk, says around €30 million. I now address the Minister for Higher Education: What measures will you take? Actually, it's a doctor's study, which is no profession whatsoever, and I'm guessing you can't say it's none of your business and you don't have jurisdiction. In fact, delaying a year and a half is a little more than usual in Slovenia. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u128	Mr. Minister Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Really, we're not gonna say it's none of our business. We are very concerned, we are very concerned, so also very consistently, persistently, from day one, we have been concerned that everything has been done on our part, which facilitates the construction of this very important facility, that is, a space where quality and even more numerous medical studies can be conducted within the framework of the University of Maribor. The money was provided already on 20 November 2008. This is the day before the new government was elected here in this high assembly. Since then, by our ministry, even with the agreement of the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which is the custodian of these funds and contracts, everything that has been in our power has been done so that this project can move forward unhindered. I'm afraid that's not the case. Of course, our powers are hereafter, after the funds have been provided and when all the consents necessary for the project to be carried out have been given to the University of Maribor – in accordance with the Regulation on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy there can be no other way – in short, the contracting authority in this matter is the University of Maribor and this must carry out the procurement procedures and everything else that is necessary in the plans to build and draw on these funds. Here, unfortunately, I think that the above-mentioned Secretary-General of the University of Maribor will have to make it very clear, sooner or later, what responsibility he bears and what responsibility the head of the University of Maribor is to ensure that nothing moves in this area. More than one construction season has already been delayed. European funds have not yet been lost, they have not yet been formally compromised or threatened. What goes to waste and what you mentioned in the first part of your question from Dean Kranjec's statement is true: the generation is lost. At least one! At least 80 medical students, at least 80 potential doctors, and here it seems like everyone involved, and those who are competent, it's not at all about this, it's not about study, it's not about university, it's not about medical school, it's not about doctors, it's about some business related to building this facility. And the fact is that, in fact, last August, if the beneficiary, the head of the University of Maribor, had followed the decisions of the State Audit Commission, or if it had repeated the second phase of the procurement process or the whole procedure, it would have been longer than we are today. I'm afraid that's not happening. They re-elect one and the same contractor over and over again, which also draws the attention of other institutions. I have also informed the Anti-Corruption Commission myself and I hope and hope that after today's meeting of the Administrative Committee of the University of Maribor, when the founder's representatives have requested that this point be addressed, I do not know what has happened there, that something will move to catch at least this year's construction season.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u130	Mr. Petan, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u131	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a broader discussion be held on the issue of the construction of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, and of course in the light of the lack of doctors. Especially since it is obviously not in everyone's interest to build a university, since some in architectural design have already stalled with design and the warning that their delay could mean the loss of European funds, their response was: "Well what then!" I guess the Prime Minister would say, "so what." Let me also mention this when we talk about our learning base, which cannot pass on the number of medical students enrolled, that even years ago the then rector of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Mencinger, stated that in Ljubljana it is no longer possible to register more than 100 to 120 doctors – places for doctors. Today, after we set up a second university in Maribor, there are 180. And I'm sure their studies are of the same quality. I'm sure of it. I don't doubt it at all. This is said to have doubled almost this number, but it worked, but it didn't work out before. Therefore, even today, without saying that I do not believe in the Minister of Health, I am sure that he is concerned about a good study of medicine, but I am sure that what the Dean of the Faculty of Maribor claims to be able to enter, they have invited 50 places a year to do so and that the study would be equally quality, only spatial conditions do not exist. I therefore believe that a broader debate is needed on this subject and that the National Assembly is just the right place because the medical profession is not of any kind. And given that we have had great difficulties for years in providing an adequate number of doctors and that one of the previous ministers of health, instead of trying to start a medical study in Maribor a year earlier, he went to Zagreb to talk to his residence colleague about how to work with their college. What that means is we're all clear. Therefore, I propose that this broader debate be held on the lack of doctors and on the construction of a medical university in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u132	The proposal by Mr Rudolph Petan to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister and Minister! Today, the Oncology Institute still faces problems with a poor water system. On this subject, Mr Minister, I have asked you a question from the Member of Parliament a few months ago, and I think this was the month of October. I asked you why it was not possible to cash in the bank guarantees that the SCT operator was able to obtain in the previous term and that, with the help of these funds, more than two million euros were involved in the recovery of this poor water network, which is causing from Legional to a number of other problems. At that time, you explained to me that you had set up or formed a special group to draw up an expert report that would also propose solutions to the causes of the problems. And on this basis, we would form a three-partite treaty or agreement where we could agree on how and how these problems should be remedied. The deadline for that report was, at least, October 20th. As I know from the publicly available information, this has not yet happened. Moreover, the Oncology Institute has to remedy these problems, eliminate them with its own resources, which has already been around €400,000, which has not been reimbursed by the SCT, as I know. In this regard, I would ask you to provide me, or to the public, and also to me, with the following answers: Has this report been carried out? Were the results of this report in line with expectations? Were specific solutions also mentioned? How do I approach that? At what stage is this agreement now signed, or how can this be remedied? Is it known what the actual cost of rehabilitating this water network will be? Because we know that every so long, some annuity of this bank loan or guarantee falls: When is this going to finally go down? And the most important thing to me is: When can it be expected that these water network problems will also be remedied so that patients will not continue to experience this distress all the time they have to take care of their health at the Oncology Institute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u134	Mr. Minister Marusich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u135	Honourable Vice-President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. I understand your concern about the state of the water system at the Oncology Institute. This is one of the major problems that I took up at the time of my term of office and decided somewhat differently than was then intended: to approach the rehabilitation of the water supply with a certain type of spillage or material. I can say that there is also a process under way in line with the promises. In the beginning, however, let me disappoint you, because according to experts' assessment, the plumbing will be difficult to recover before the end of 2012. Whether it sounds difficult or not, it is shocking for me; but it is realistic, but it is important to take into account – I will try to figure out how we came to this decision. It's true, I've made my own decision somehow differently. We've set up a path like you did before. The study was completed, produced by the Department of Construction and handed it over definitively in December 2010, that is, last year, while we aligned ourselves for a month and a half with the comments we made on our part at least, some of them were SCT. What are the main points, and what solutions should the study offer? The level of this emphasis is those who somehow give me the right to decide on this procedure. It appears that the state of the water supply at the Oncology Institute is worrying and that the only solution is a complete rehabilitation, not as some have thought that certain materials could be used to repair or locate blind water and so on. In short, it is necessary to replace the entire water system, which unfortunately requires a project approach. It is necessary to obtain a building permit, but it is necessary to prepare a project for the implementation work, which requires certain steps. Now, who's responsible for the mistake? As Minister and after examining everything, I am convinced that it is not the Ministry or that it is the power to attribute a mistake to SCT, so I also decided to sign an agreement to join the invitation of the Construction Office or to make a public call on which we received the Construction Office which produced this study. And this study is the one that is supposed to be merciless when it comes to resolving disputes, who is responsible. In fact, SCT claims that these are hidden real errors and are not responsible for them. Of course, based on this study, we continue the procedures. Who will and how we will arrive at the final decision on liability will be the subject of any arbitration or may even need to follow the judicial procedure. In any event, the commitment is – in the middle of last year's agreement that this study is the one on which it will be decided. The three-partite agreement, namely between the Oncology Institute, the Minister, the SCT, was signed and is also the basis for all further activities. Nothing's going on. It's hard to accept. As I said, the recovery plan was presented when the agreement was signed. Steps shall be carried out in accordance with the timetable. Indeed, I have taken the decision to initiate all procurement procedures for the implementation of the rehabilitation project without delay. Of course, it is necessary to produce, design, to obtain a building permit and implementing works in order to be able to join this rehabilitation. The deadline for implementing these projects is 10 April 2011. What will be the actual cost of replacing the water network? Unfortunately, I cannot give you exactly the answer to this question. There are evaluations, but let's wait for the project tasks to be developed, and we will be able to give a final opinion on this. However, given the need to replace the entire network, it is suggested that in some way you can assess the cost. But it was also always clear in the media that I had gone around, and I forgot to cash in the bank guarantees. Let me say that the day before I was named, the first flight of the bank guarantee expired. So, since I've been Minister, Slovenia hasn't lost any bank guarantees, even more! With the agreement we signed with SCT, we moved all our hands, and the first time the flight went down, it was 31. 12. 2013 At that time, EUR 600,000 is expected to fall. And later in 2015 – 225 thousand and in 2025 both remained. In fact, the strategy – I hope you will give me the opportunity to give you a comprehensive answer – the strategy is set out so that we have moved everything so that the rehabilitation of the pipeline can be done with a bank guarantee and therefore move our hands so that we can recover with a guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u136	Mr. Grill, would you like another explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Yes, and in addition, I will give the Minister the opportunity to proceed with the reply. Look, Mr. Minister, I am firmly convinced that this flour will probably not be bread, because, as we know, the SCT is now in a position where there is only a matter of time before it will be gone. And I want to know if you can answer: Is there then any other minimum possibility that these bank guarantees can also be obtained and that we can obtain these funds? However, I also agree, of course, that before you were the Minister, certain obligations have already fallen from these bank guarantees and that I am reluctant to receive, and probably also the public at large, the feeling that the State or the Government or the policy is trying to step in somehow with the interests of the SCT and that this is deliberately stalled so that it does not pay what should also be paid. We therefore expect that this agreement, which you say is due to fall only in 2013, will have a legal possibility of recovery. Because if the company goes bankrupt, I think that everything will then be left on the shoulders of taxpayers, the Ministry or the Oncology Institute, and that we will have to settle this on our own like no other occasion, while those tycoons who have used themselves primarily in the past at the expense of the state will be able to watch with great resources how the state deals with such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u138	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u139	Mr. Grill, thank you for giving me the opportunity to finish with the rest of the answers. In fact, with the expiry of the deadline of the bank guarantee, I have ensured that the pipeline could be recovered from these funds, and experts also argue that bank guarantees will be accessible and can be rectified, irrespective of the situation of the SCT. But this is a slightly bigger problem; the Construction Office has conducted a study that addressed both problems at the Oncology Institute, both water supply and air conditioning. And if there is still a problem with the plumbing, whether it is a hidden fault or a poor maintenance or performance, it is more or less clear in the climate that it is a poor performance. So the fear is a little bit greater, in fact, I'm sure that at least part of the mistakes that the plumbing is making could be remedied by the means we have in the bank guarantee. Successively, we can cash the guarantee with them in some way. It can, not least, on a specific day, but the problem of the Oncology Institute or performance is broader. But for now, I can't exactly tell you where and how the funds would be based on the situation of the SCT. In particular, I believe that water supply could be repaired by these means, but we are probably all aware that in such a large institution, with so many patients it will be very difficult to repair the water supply, because we cannot afford to do so elsewhere. And that's what led me to the path I drew today. But this is a problem that has existed for many years, and I am sure that this path will bear fruit, and at the end of the project I will find out how different steps have been taken. However, it will be necessary, I hope that already this year, to approach recovery, because the plumbing is in extremely poor condition. In extremely poor condition!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u140	Mr. Grill, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u141	Procedural proposal, yes. See, for this issue, I think it is so important and it would be right to discuss these answers, especially those that the Minister himself will still obtain from the relevant institutions and from the operators, and to discuss here, to see in what way, especially when and for what money, this water network, which the Minister says will be in extremely poor condition, will be remedied. It would be appropriate to hold this general debate at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u142	On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. The Minister of Culture will be asked a question by Mrs Andrej Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting, Minister, one leaving! How nice it is to hear that this government has such capable ministers and ministers who have to solve such problems, especially in the area of construction, and, of course, decisions made in the previous mandate with promises that certain matters will end, and we know that they are not yet ending, because there are so many problems that have arisen because of the promises made, the early decisions and, I will say, the building of castles in the clouds. I am asking, Minister of Culture, and perhaps also a specific question, because Members are staying nearby or we are moving every day near ours, I will say, the second largest national house, if I count down here, of course, our great national television; this is the Slovenian National Theatre Opera and Ballet in Ljubljana. We know and we look forward to when this house will be reopened. In view of the fact that the resolution on the national programme for the period 2008 to 2011 has been very concrete in order to complete this major investment in 2009. I myself remember very well that the wishes for this reconstruction were very great, but that projects have always been quite unrealistic in the reconstruction process, and therefore there was no such decision until the previous mandate. I was also very skeptical about this decision at the time and today, when I wish this ensemble – as I said – was the second largest in Slovenia. Last but not least, the data from the analysis made by the Ministry of Culture in support of the public sector’s reconstruction material prove this. That is, if we take a look at the current or December 2008 data, as far as 288 employees or a collective of 288 members of the ensemble are concerned, that it is used or that it is invested in this ensemble of 507,000 487 thousand euros and that it is an average wage that is also moving in the middle of the average wage in the field of culture. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary-General: When can we expect the implementation of this extraordinary repertoire of our opera, which has had just a wonderful premiere this week, the opening of these renovated modern premises and the re-staying of the working ensemble in the renovated premises of the house? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u144	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you for asking. The Russian woman who performed this week had a handy set, which is currently in Opera, given that there is water in this subterranean. We know that Rusalka's set is a sea girl. Yes, Opera is a small nightmare, as I believe a small nightmare is also the construction of the medical faculty you spoke of earlier, or the rehabilitation of the Oncology Institute regarding the water supply. Today, thoughts and questions that are really hard to understand have come to mind, and believe that I, too, have been personally building and not building and impeding and obstructing procedures that occurred when my predecessor decided to build this building in 2006 – by the way, the investment itself or the competition for the renovation of the Opera and then the Drama took place at the end of the 1990s. In short, in the beginning, this investment, when the first contract fell in 2006, was absolutely undervalued, despite the Ministry’s view that construction was too expensive. It amounted to about 23 million and demanded further rationalisation. Then how did the investments go? The investment took place in a phased decision; namely, SCT and Vegrad at the time – today Mr. Zidar says that Vegrad was drawn along by order, but anyway, they worked together after a decision of solidarity responsibility, all the way until this year or last year. The real phase was a hole, and I apologize for the simple terms, although I must say that I am becoming a construction specialist with Oprah. In short, the first phase, which meant the protection of the building pit and the sub-betonation of the entire stage tower, which goes very deep, was then evaluated to about 3 million, but immediately fell to the first annex. The second phase was agreed on – and I am still talking about the period when I have not met this investment as a minister – was valued at 22 million and more. But what happened? It immediately appeared that the basis there had not been adequate, that projects had to be continuously modified, that static calculations had to be changed, projects allocated and, of course, also resolved with different structural reinforcements. However, the project was immediately irritated, and further, if I skipped very much, the repairs had to continue. And not because it's a monumentally protected facility that reveals a number of unforeseen situations, but also partly because they were more different reasons. Furthermore, if I skip to 2009 and, of course, even in 2010, it turns out that the contractual partner, called Vegrad, has started to leave either superficially or not at all providing the works that should be provided. Not only were we understaffed, we did not pay the subcontractors, we had a lot of problems — and what happened? Vegrad, as we know, went on to a forced settlement or stopped working on the Opera and then for quite some time started fighting with the SCT to take over, as in a contract already signed in the past, a solidarity responsibility for their business as well. But in the meantime, in March 2010, this desperate intrusion of water into this structure or tension occurred when they tried to repair it but failed. This is what we are doing now, after we have agreed that with the SCT, which first agreed to fix something in the contract, it will ensure that in December, as we know, it will become insolvent and itself not be able to provide for those tasks that should be done after the contract. Today, as before at Vegrad, we have already cashed in the bank guarantee, but we have already terminated the contract because of its failure to perform the works that should be done under the contract. Of course, there were other complications involved. Of beech [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u147	I think it may be time-consuming, but we can see that the real reasons are much broader. I still consider it very personal that the decision in 2006 to renovate much too quickly was much under-educated, particularly because it is an important object and a cultural monument that requires, last but not least, substantive reflection, a plan when the Opera is being restored, when the national theatre is being restored, such as Drama, and to do so together in codecision. Of course, given that we also know that there has been a change in leadership at this time, which was, after all, part of all this confusion in the past period, I believe that this opening will still occur in due course. And I believe that the Government will make every effort to do so, as in the field of health, probably also in the area of culture or those problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u148	Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u149	I'm sure I didn't answer all the questions you asked at the beginning, but I did answer the other part of your supplement. I can't decide whether they made the right decision or not. I'm sure Opera will be good, beautiful, even a merger that has a lot of objections, old with a new one and so on, I don't think is problematic. It discovers new spaces that have never been seen before. However, it will not be greater, it is true that it will no longer have the opportunity to visit, but a witness to a host of misunderstandings, in the fact that the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has made it impossible or has given no consent to change the roof, which might allow for different acoustics. In short, the post festivities could not determine between themselves what was being protected and what was not being protected. A lot of such questions have been raised, including a replacement measure concerning the letter actually being implemented just now. But I think it's an ambitious project, that leadership has also set up an ambitious programme. I warn everyone that at the beginning of the European Capital of Culture, Ljubljana and Maribor will perform Black Masks, one of the major Slovenian projects and more. Now, at the moment, I agree that there is economic damage caused by the inappropriate behaviour of construction companies, which, too, may be, the supervisors have not always been partial because of procedures that sometimes, rightly, sometimes have not changed. However, these experiences clearly show that in the future, if the adaptation or reconstruction of an older house for newer purposes, such as speaking of Drama, should be reconsidered twice. At least I think that sometimes investments in the new structure, in the new building are cheaper and it is necessary to somehow train these old historical objects to breathe better and to somehow patch them up and continue to use them. But it does not torture, as with Opera it is already tormented even by the ministry and it also faces inappropriateness, not just the insolventness of Slovenian construction companies and all others who participate in it. And apparently, there aren't many.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u150	Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Internal Policy and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! On Saturday, January 22, a dead housewife was found in the Hotize area. However, there has been an unacceptable abandonment of the conduct of the Slovenian law enforcement and justice authorities and the incomprehensible abandonment of the case to the Croatian authorities, despite the fact that it is a territory controlled exclusively by the Slovenian authorities at the time of independence. According to our information, this outrageous suspension of due conduct occurred after the hardships and consultations of local competent authorities and institutions with and from the state authorities from Ljubljana, and therefore from Ljubljana, guidance should be given to encourage a derogation from the exercise of jurisdiction over the eminent Slovenian territory. Local judicial and police authorities have declared themselves unfit and have called Croatian state authorities at the scene of the event. Do you even know what that means? This de facto means, in other words, more humanely, the sale of Slovenian national territory or, legally speaking, a crime of assault on the territorial integrity of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking: Who will take responsibility or be responsible for this crime? I'm also asking: Why do not the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the foreign ministry provide an official explanation or report on the conduct of the authorities? Next: Have the Slovenian national authorities knowingly enabled the construction of a frontier for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, which Croatia will use in the arbitration process? On the basis of the conduct and instructions of the higher public authorities, I ask: Is there a secret annex to the arbitration agreement, which provides that, in the event of exceptional events in Slovenian territory where the border is not established, the Slovenian national authorities shall enable the production of frontier precursors in favour of Croatia? There are a lot of circumstances that show that you're working in this direction. Registration, transmission, visual and video evidence of the operation of Croatian officials on Slovenian territory [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much. I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u152	Madam Minister Kresal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Jerovšek! With regard to the event that took place, the police and, as far as I know, the judiciary have given all the necessary clarifications to the public. As soon as doubts arose, a statement was made explaining most of what I will repeat. As we know, the exact course of the border line between Croatia and Slovenia has not yet been established, this is a well-known fact. In the past, this has sparked many incidents, as well as every event that takes place on this line, which has not yet been specified so precisely, has also generated a lot of public attention. Otherwise, the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in paragraph 2 states that the state border between the two countries, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, runs as it existed under the former SFRJ. At the time of their declaration of independence, both countries recognised their independence to each other and also said that they would respect the situation as regards the border on 25 June 1991. Later, in 2001, an agreement on border traffic and cooperation was concluded, although we call it SOPS. At that time, it came into force and brought a great deal of relief with regard to living and staying, moving along this common border, even near Mura. Since 2005, this has been the case with the Hotiz border crossing, which both countries have in common control and management of the police. On the basis of a prior agreement between the two countries, it was built by the Republic of Croatia. This agreement, which also governs part of the mutual behaviour, already makes it very clear in the introductory articles that it does not prejudge the State border in any way, which also applies to the area on the left bank of the Mura River. Following the entry into force of this Agreement, a practice has been developed by 2003 to carry out the tasks of each Member State within its cadastral territory until the final determination of the border between the two countries. In doing so, the Slovenian police are acting in accordance with the 2005 Joint Declaration on the avoidance of the incident, also referred to by the current arbitration agreement, and in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. So when it comes to intervention events requiring a rapid reaction to the rescue of human lives or to the threat of greater property damage, it intervenes in this area, irrespective of the fact that the state border has not yet been established. Such conduct does not prejudge the state border in any way. However, it follows from a copy of the communication between the police and the investigating judge that both the police and the investigating judge were of the same opinion in order to inform the Croatian police after the completion of the procedure, in accordance with the established practice agreed with the said agreement. And that's how it was done. This, of course, I reiterate, has no impact on the determination of the state border between the two countries, which will be decided on the basis of an arbitral tribunal decision. So if I sum up quickly to leave Minister Zalar some room: there has been no suspension of the duties or powers of the competent authorities, there has been no crime. There were also no instructions from Ljubljana. The police have been here as usual, and as they have been doing for quite some time. However, I must say for myself that I have never heard of any secret annex to the arbitration agreement, and I am also absolutely certain that it does not exist and does not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u154	Mr Jerovšek, would you like an additional explanation? Please, Minister Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I have obtained an explanation from the President of the District Court in Murska Sobota on this matter, and I can give you a brief summary of what he is explaining. He says the investigating judge on duty was 22. 1. by OKC, Murska Sobota Police Administration, informed that the body of the host was found outside the village of Hotiz, about 100 metres for the cadastral municipality run by the Republic of Croatia. The investigating judge was informed that there were no signs of violence on the body, so he did not decide to perform the examination himself. Thus, it was not a matter of being said to be rude, but in the framework of his jurisdiction as an investigative judge, he decided not to take a look and leave the examination to the police, which is common practice in similar cases, not only in border areas. And in this regard, I can only confirm what the Minister for Internal Affairs has explained about communication between the judge and the police on this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u156	Mr Jerovšek, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u157	Yes, thank you very much. I must say, I am not satisfied with the answer, Madam Minister. I have never heard such anaemic answers in this room before, and this gives me even more anxiety. Of course, I cannot agree with your answer that such police conduct is normal. The sale of Slovenian national territory cannot normally be done and must be prevented. And the first statement from the police was that they had dropped the case from the Croatian side. And, of course, that's what happened. When I ask whether there is a permanent annex to the arbitration agreement, we ask ourselves, also the public, what is the meaning of anaemic, late reaction of the Slovenian government to the issuance of the fishing rules with the map. The government, in protest, did not make it clear that this was an eccentric violation. She didn't even say that! He also relativised and excused the President of the Republic in an interview on television. And look ahead, we are constantly witnessing the irregular, irresponsible, unprofessional and unprofitable conduct of the state authorities. In recent days, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, literally on Friday, encourages our tourists, citizens, to go to Egypt, when all other countries are working differently! And when you say, such a practice has insisted that, until the limits are established, each of these powers will be exercised at its end, and why then Slovenia does not perform in Savudrija, which belongs to the Cadastral municipality of Piran. That won't hold, Madam Secretary! It's a cancellation. And Mr. Minister, the powers [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u159	For a little while. The questions you have for the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the Foreign Minister and anyone else will have to be addressed to them because I cannot answer you about this, as well as about other events; let's say what's going on in Egypt, I don't think it's my responsibility. However, I can tell you once again that the police have acted in accordance with their competences and in accordance with the practice that has emerged with all the agreements we have concluded and the good-neighbourly relations, which was also the same during the term of office before this government. There's no suspension, no one's selling, selling, giving up, making an annex. Police carried out their work as usual in such a case and informed the Croatian police when they did their work as usual and absolutely nothing conspiratory.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u160	Mr. Secretary, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u161	The investigating judge in this case, after having been informed of the whereabouts of the body and that there were no signs of violence on the body, proposed to inform the Croatian competent authorities of this finding in relation to the practice of which there was a little earlier talk. So, it wasn't about any sale or territory or jurisdiction. Our judicial authorities have exercised their jurisdiction, and they have carried it out. This did not lead to any prejudice, in particular irrespective of those provisions of the arbitration agreement which set the stage for the establishment of a border and which exclude all acts which would exceed those bases as invalid. So this fear of yours is completely unnecessary, but of course as a member of the Government, I must strongly and firmly reject the instigation of some secret annex to the arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u162	Good. Mr Jerovšek, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, if we are to prevent further withdrawals of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, then we must obtain accurate information and have an in-depth debate to prevent such conduct by the State authorities as has taken place in this case; as shown in the anaemic behaviour of the ministries, anaemic notes which do not warn of a breach of the arbitration agreement, of ecclatic infringements. The public rightly wonders whether Croatia or their intelligence services are blackmailing our officials with possible burdensome information on ticklish matters. We do not know why it continues to be subject to, it continues to retreat, it does not continue to exercise jurisdiction over Slovenian territory, and it is even justified. I therefore expect or demand, and I hope that we will all agree that such behaviour, which naturally reduces Slovenian national territory, is final. In order to hold a discussion under the relevant Rule of Procedure and to finally have the answers given to us by the ministries, who is responsible, who gave such instructions – we have not heard any of them now. We need to achieve this without repeating ourselves, because of course the neighbours will exploit and continue to do this, but in this case even the Slovenian authorities have invited them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u164	I understand you've made a procedural proposal. On the proposal by Mr Jožef Jerovšek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Internal Policy and the Minister of Justice to his question of the Member of Parliament tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Vinko Gorenak, please ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have repeatedly reiterated in the debate on justice that the rule of law is in good condition. You are now the only one who claims this because now the President of the country has left this claim and claims otherwise. But I have announced to you the question of parliamentary control in the judiciary. Look, every system, every system, any system, let this be a system of justice, let this be a factory, let these Members be here, need certain rules and need certain controls. You can't do that without it! The last time the press asked me when I asked you a question, they said what's going on now that you're helping Minister Zalar. Actually, I was asking you, and I'm asking you today: Do you need any legal mechanisms and anything else to enable you and, of course, the President of the Supreme Court to exercise control down in the judicial branch of power? In fact, if you look from the A.D.A. to the M.A., or not least the Judge in Celje, these are things that clearly indicate that the judiciary is no exception in terms of irregularities. And that's, I don't know, I'd say normal. It is perfectly normal to find a box in each system, as it is said domestically, but the system is effective if it detects it in a timely manner and if it can eliminate it or if it carries out the so-called internal self-cleaning, which is also referred to by the President of the Supreme Court. But I'm not convinced by the documents; look, last year we were talking about the Bulmastifs and that famous judgment that Dr. Pirnat says is a fertilized bull of the judiciary, so Dr. Pirnat said. You did the right thing last year, and I thank you for bringing this to the government in relation to your family ties. This is correct and understandable, the Government has authorised Dr. Wlačič to take the initiative to control that decision. And look what the Administrative Court says. The Administrative Court says no, that the government will not oversee anything. The Supreme Court, or the Council of Justice, Mr Maslesha is signed and it is so right not to supervise judges. So, this situation puts, for my understanding, the government and the minister, not just you, even the one tomorrow and the one yesterday, in a situation where we can say that you're our courier, that you have a big bag and you're bringing us money, but you can't ask us what we're doing. That's why I'm asking you: Do you have enough mechanisms to detect irregularities? And in the police department, such irregularities, in my opinion, are well-discovered, not just now, but once upon a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u166	Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Your Honor. When it comes to such actions, the deviations that you have listed in relation to corruption in the judiciary, which, of course, I deeply regret, I think we have the right mechanisms in this country. The best evidence is that both the prosecution and the judiciary have only responded very quickly to the first perceived suspicions of this corruption, reacted, handled matters, and, as you know, these proceedings are now in progress. That's the answer: yes. But when you talk about the issue of official supervision, I should first remind you that the Minister of Justice here can't be embarrassed in any way. Because the Minister is a representative of the executive branch. And it must respect both Article 3 of the Constitution, which speaks of the division of power, and Article 125 of the Constitution, which speaks of the independence of the judiciary. If I didn't do that, then he's trampling on that legal state that I still claim is in relatively good shape. By the way, I was talking about the judiciary and not the rule of law as such. You misquoted me. So, official supervision is an institute that we have for several years and that works well in practice. However, this institution is not intended to correct any decisions of the courts with which one part of the public may also disagree with the profession. Here again we would undermine the fundamental principle of the independence of judges, which is protected not only in our constitution, but in all possible international documents, from the fundamental principles of the United Nations on the independence of the judiciary, to the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and so on. This is because it is possible to intervene in court decisions only within the framework of legal remedies. It's a democracy. So far, no one's invented a better system. So you can't get a court order out of the world if you don't agree with it if you don't make use of legal remedies. However, official supervision has a different function, not that we abolish judicial decisions, but that, through the Institute of Official Control, his work is reviewed through a longer period of time, through a larger number of cases that are legally completed, a certain assessment, including an interview with the judge, can then be part of the decision-making of the judge's career within the scope of the competences that the Council of Justice has in most cases with us. This is the institute. And as a result, you showed the decision of the Council of Justice to decide whether or not the official controls permit. For the Council of Justice is not the first time, it has repeatedly, even in the time of Minister Sturm, rejected the proposal for the introduction of official controls, if this was aimed at only one matter. The Council of Justice expressly warns – this institution is intended to review a larger number of cases over a longer period of time. However, it is not excluded to review only one matter, but, of course, in certain respects. Look, I'm gonna give you one good case, the Satex case. Here, on my proposal, the Supreme Court has decided not only to review how the Presidents of the Court exercised their powers with regard to measures to ensure the prevention of a possible lapse in criminal matters, but also to review the resolution of a particular case, one case led by a judge – of course, after it has been legally completed – in view of whether he has properly applied the legal powers of procedural management, which means, in other words, whether he has dealt with the matter quickly enough. So, we have mechanisms, and it is right that this mechanism is in the hands of the judiciary itself, not the minister, because then the Minister would very quickly be tempted to start harassing the judges with these institutions when dealing with matters that the Minister or the Government or a certain political group would not be pleased with. That is why we have the principle of the division of power, and therefore it cannot be the Minister who can intervene in this particular matter. However, the judiciary, of course, can and this responsibility is borne by the judiciary and these mechanisms are exercised by the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u168	Mr. Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Now you've given me a lecture like I'm in my first year of law school, and I'm not. Look, this is the situation. I strongly, well distinguish what your administrative control is and what you have and what the Council of Justice has under its jurisdiction. But I also asked you whether the judiciary, from the Supreme Court, the President of the Council of Justice, has enough mechanisms or not. I don't think so; or he doesn't want to implement them. I have a case before me, and I'm going to give some information publicly because they let me. Marta Petkovic. The world of justice is last year 7. 10. gave the initiative to the Court of Ljubljana to supervise this and this case. It's been four months — nothing! Look, they don't listen to the Council of Justice either! They don't listen to him. I have a gentleman's case before me, I can't, I can't say his name because he asked me to, because he asked me to, 12 years of legal proceedings for a crime, a suspicion of a crime, he was pretty stigmatized in the place by the nature of the crime. All the courts, from first to last, answer him, decide in the form of judgments that nothing is to blame, he is forgiven — all at fault! After 12 years of losing his wife, partner or whatever, he moved because of all that matter, and today the State of the Republic of Slovenia tells him that he is not entitled to compensation for an unreasonable trial. The man was destroyed. Justice destroyed him. Do you understand? And there are no mechanisms. Not to mention the case of the girl I'm sending to you tomorrow, it also asked me for this help that the court actually sent to the hospital. And then it came out a little later that it was actually more like Einstein after IQ and they took her out and so on and so forth. It seems to me, I believe you may not, but justice, Mr Maslesha has this body today, but he does not control – or he does not have mechanisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u170	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u171	Dear Mr Gorenak, I have a very good proposal. That all these complaints sent to you by the citizens are addressed to me immediately. Especially those relating to the stated long-standing trial. For we have here again, I think that the sufficiently effective mechanisms that enable: for the first time, to check whether this is true, whether it is indeed an unjustified postponement by trial or why this is happening, and for the second time, to ensure an acceleration, including by means of a new judge, that it can be decided by which time the hearing must be heard, must decide on the matter. So if you want to help citizens, I suggest you help them in this way to give them credible information so that they can address both the Minister of Justice and the President of the Court with a supervisory complaint. I'm talking about the aspect of the slow trial where this is still happening. However, I must tell you that the number of these supervisory complaints in the Slovenian courts is falling, and I am pleased to find that. However, when it comes to the issue of the compensations that citizens claim from the State for the various actions of the State, not just the judicial authorities, of course, every story is a story to itself and we are here, in the National Assembly we cannot assess in any way, because we have absolutely little data. So that I would no longer take the time to discuss a story that I don't know about, because there is a particular need to consider all aspects, from illegality, causation and so on, to be able to accept an assessment of whether someone is entitled to compensation or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u172	Mr. Gorenak, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I am asking in a procedural manner for a debate on this subject. At the same time, I'm going to say - I know you can't answer - that I don't want to send everything to you because it's so much that I need a van to drive it there. It doesn't make sense. But I will certainly be in the future for those cases where I myself will think that you can do something so that the President of the Supreme Court can do something about it, and I will absolutely give you away these things because it is right that we respond because you know where someone is actually due to the decisions of the judiciary in fact, I cannot say exactly on the road and that the country is not ready to deduct those few thousand euros, but it is really bad. That's the kind of thing we have to solve. However, I am still sure, and I will take this time and say that I still have the hope that the new President of the Supreme Court will act as he has somehow predicted that he will carry out this control downwards. However, if he considers that he does not have sufficient authority, because the court in Ljubljana obviously does not want to, and he has ordered this, to carry out this control; if you consider that the legal mechanisms are needed, I expect you to allow the President of the Supreme Court to have better control mechanisms down. These are things that need to be discussed. There is nothing to regret about corruption. It's good to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u174	The proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question of the Member of Parliament will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! At the time of hearing the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the concession fee and the water refund for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava on the Commission for the supervision of public finances were announced by the representative of the Government to amend the rules relating to the financing of the construction of power plants on the lower Sava. I want to know: As part of these announced changes at the Ministry, are you thinking about allocations of the Water Fund? Do you think that water fund resources would primarily be designed to protect against floods? In your opinion, could the resources of the Water Fund also be allocated to investments envisaged in the relevant acts as a result of the construction of hydropower plants? I'm also interested in: Why do you not answer to the citizens, local communities and other state institutions to the letters, letters and calls they send to your ministry or personally to you? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u176	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jarnić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Well, maybe you should answer the last question first. Not to answer, it's not true. We also cleaned up all the problems with the Ombudsman. But then I'm going to explain to him, because there might be some wrong information, because someone is trying not to do their homework by interpreting it like that. With regard to the law, which is in the final stage of preparation, I can answer specific questions. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Conditions of concession for the use of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which is in the final stage of preparation, is aimed at using the water fund funds to finance tasks not in accordance with Article 162, paragraph 3, of the Water Act; or, in other words, strictly for the purposes of flood protection. According to this law, I can tell you somewhere in the time book that we had our last internal meeting. 12. and we count in very short that the draft will already be so far prepared that it will go into the next process. We are scheduled for admission to the National Assembly on 15 May, but I sincerely hope that you will receive this law before that date. As to whether we are primarily committed under this flood law, to counter flood measures, this is certainly the main purpose of this change, including with regard to cohesion projects in Drava and Savina, the solution of the southwestern part of Ljubljana, the Railways – these are all specific topics to which this law will help a quicker solution. As regards whether certain facilities can be co-financed by the Water Fund, the answer is that, in the case of energy facilities and infrastructure, the investment funds provided for by the relevant acts as a result of the construction of hydropower plants cannot be used from the water fund. So, the cause pays, here's the principle. If someone builds an object and because of this facility changes the situation, they must also address these consequences, which would not otherwise have been the case, as part of the investment of this facility. And then there's the answers about the Drava power plants. In the light of the third paragraph of Article 162 of the Water Act, the establishment of an appropriate transition cannot be financed from the Water Fund, as it is an investment that must be financed by the HE-SD1 investor or its legal successor, which is again in this context that the originator pays. And now, regarding the congregation of Ig. The project for the decommissioning and treatment of waste water in the Ljubljana Field aquifers area was planned for funding in the period 2007-2013. The municipality of Ig submitted a draft application for the acquisition of cohesion fund funds by e-mail on 11 December 2009. The ILO reviewed the documentation and forwarded the findings of the review to the municipality on 24 February 2010. We have found that the submitted draft application is not fully prepared in accordance with the criteria for co-financing the OP ROPI projects. It was therefore necessary to complete the application. We organized an 11th meeting with the congregation. 3. where we have again explained in detail what the problem is. To date, the congregation has not responded to our comments. 4. and asked for a re-meeting. We have found that we have nothing new to say at the re-meeting until they have completed the most basic issues that have been agreed upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u178	Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I already got a partial answer, but I'm interested. Since the issue of the water management authorisation of Drava Power Plants Maribor of 1. 2. 1964, far back, the number 324, etc., stated in point 7 that the investor of the Central Drava 1 hydroelectric power plant was obliged to arrange for appropriate crossings over Drava in the area of existing ships, if the minimum waters in Drava were no longer possible to transport by ship. This situation was caused by the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in Zlatolič, under Vurberk in the municipality of Duplek, but the bridge is still not built today. Who, after all these years, is obliged to establish a transition, you said. But I would also like to set up that the old Drava stream is growing in some way, because the flow of water in the old Drava stream is too small and the floods are being delayed. I have been warning about this for two years – the construction of an anti-water embankment, which is in some way also, I would say the result of the construction of this hydroelectric power plant. Of course I'm interested: Will this new law, as you said, be possible to use these funds for floodgates? Is this thing going to run any faster now because we've been waiting for it since 1998? As for the answers to the question about Ig Municipality, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u180	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. In fact, this matter with Drava could be compared to old burdens. The clear position of the Account Holder is that the old burden, if identified by the Causer, has to take care of the removal or financing. And this whole story, because the construction of an object has caused a change in nature, this matter must be resolved by those who have caused the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u182	Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister for Environment and Space. The minister's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you. One of the ministers is away, so I'm only asking Dr. Roku Žarnić a question. This is the 3a development axis, which represents the link between Pokolpija and Ljubljana and also the highway cross, i.e. the European corridors, and especially in Pokolpija 3.a development axis increases the nomadic part of Pokolpija, by solving the extremely difficult economic and social situation of this area, which is facing far-reaching unemployment or comparable – as in Pomurje. Since Pomurje already has a highway, of course this part of Slovenia expects at least one suitable fast road and thus the solution of many development needs and opportunities that this area certainly deserves. One of the biggest obstacles to the implementation of this project is Natura 2000 in the Barja area. And let me remind you that even at the time of placing the route in the area of Barja, when the procedure was led by the Ministry under the direction of Minister Podobnik and extended the area of Nature to the part where the perimeter is also located. It means that the Government, at the same time as it placed the route into the space, also blocked the last installation of Vodice-Skofljica in the space. And today, when we talk about how we will also provide funds in the light of the new measures that the Government is designing and will also propose to the National Assembly for effective work in this mandate, there will also be a lot of investment in infrastructure. And investment in infrastructure is one of those that certainly brings new development and if the 3a development axis is not included in this programme due to problems with spatial placement, of course we can say that we have re-scheduled this investment for a certain amount of time, which, of course, means even greater development problems in Kočevska. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How is it possible that replacement habitats for birds and our famous butterfly midget on the route amount to 250 hectares and the cost of providing replacement habitats of up to 77 million euros on the basis of the fact that the assessment of construction costs in the habitat area is only 33 million euros? And not last: When will the State Spatial Plans be adopted for the other railway undertakings on this axis?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u184	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u185	Your Honor! Thank you very much for the question that I really have to say that I am asking myself as much as you are. My professional colleagues are trying to answer, and they have also prepared an answer for me. I don't know how I'm going to be successful in this answer. But maybe before I answer that question, I'd put it another way. Lately, when I saw that this was a serious problem, there were only three routes; two where we needed substitute habitats, the third through Foxy, which was a civil initiative by no means accepted, I wondered whether there was a fourth option to root the reconstruction of the Lower Road. And they explained to me that a long time ago it was also a choice and that because of various such or other causes it was gone. My personal belief is that there were somehow reasons why that option had dropped years ago, too, that perhaps this concern for nature was not so acute. In the course of this story, I will continue to ask myself, and I will continue to take my stand as a technically-thinking person, so that the fastest option is possible, as long as you drive home as normally, perhaps just a bottom road like a reconstruction solution, perhaps for significantly less money, and then, at some point in time, the bypass, if necessary. However, such thinking is still at an early stage today. Somehow we put it on the table at a meeting between the ministries a week ago. In terms of calculation and the value of the habitat, according to some professional backgrounds and practice, influential areas are counted. There's quite a lot of hectares going on here. And if you just multiply the price of some average hectare and the number of hectares, there's a high figure. It is true that many times there can be a lot of debate about what are the criteria, what are the criteria, what are the basics of work, because there are no laws here, but there are examples of good practice and experience from the world. This way things can always be discussed professionally here. This story by whether the surfaces are replaced by ratios 1 to 1 or 1:4, or these habitats are then cared for by the local population or by the state – things are very complex. However, what is happening now is that in this case we will be able to reach the bottom of these methodologies and our nagging and increasing the cost of roads due to the consideration of habitats. As far as the deadlines are concerned, as I say and as I have said before, it is very difficult to talk about precise deadlines, because until we have cleared which route, who will cover the costs of the habitats, or we will be able to reopen the option, in my opinion the fastest solution, with the reconstruction of the bottom line, I think we can, hopefully, say something more in a relatively short time, because it is now under the somehow coordinated mags. Gasparia, the Minister for Development, has begun to intensify the matter. Because this is the case that we will use for the exercise in where are the obstacles that make problems for similar projects in Slovenia. It's just going to be a case where we can answer a lot of questions. We're preparing a precise timeline and route to clear this up. I just wanted to say that we're paying a lot of attention to this case. Unfortunately, I can't give you specific numbers or dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u186	Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u187	I need to complete the question. I was also kind of expecting such an answer, but I would like you to remind your colleagues that in the National Assembly we adopted a guarantee law for the construction of motorways, which also provided for the extension of the road Malence-Smarje-Sap. So it's a Ljubljana ring that expands, and thus traffic failure can be significantly improved. This was one of the reservations why this 3a development axis does not connect directly to this road corridor and there we have the source provided. It can begin immediately by placing in the space of this expansion of this highway section or Ljubljana ring in this part. Then it is also an integral part of placement in the Šmarje-Sap area, which is also already in the programme and is under preparation of a national location plan, which I believe will be prepared and prepared this year. What we all lack to agree on is to use the main road G1 Ljubljana-Zagreb with the Šmarje-Sap connection, after which we join the main road with this connection in Šmarje - Sap, and there is really no need for any additional accommodation in the room, no additional measures. It is only necessary to find a section next to Lisicje that we avoid the interest of local initiatives in order to protect this area and get somewhere in the Pijave Gorica area on G2 106 Ljubljana–Kočevje road. So this is a solution that actually means that we can start immediately putting into space. I suggest that you actually draw your colleagues' attention to this possibility, and that we may also then, in a joint meeting or through a question from the Member States, address this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u188	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I guess we're thinking something like that. This Šmarje connection - Sap is now somehow in the final phase of the DN and we will have at least one thing already under the roof. However, I am counting on the fact that this variant that you've been talking about, I've already asked about it, and somehow I haven't received clear answers yet. You need to know that this is not just the story of our ministry, there is also the Ministry of Transport and also agriculture, and there are obviously other reasons why I do not know at this point that this has not been done in the past. However, given your activities here, I will have sufficient support for an even more determined question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u190	Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the affair of Sova, which was identified in 2007 and 2008 as some kind of affair of the decade, it was found within the Slovenian secret service a type of irregularity. It wasn't just the police who found out. The irregularities have also been identified by the Office for Budgetary Control, the Special Government Working Group and the Court of Auditors has delivered a negative opinion to the Owls. Together, the Sova Criminal Police Administration wrote 10 criminal charges against known suspects, one criminal complaint against an unknown offender and nine reports. Some of these cases came before the court, for example, the Supreme Public Prosecutor brought 4 cases against the former Director of the Soviet Union to investigate or extend the investigation into six offences of abuse of official status and official rights. With regard to the illegal disposal of the tax assets associated with the time when Mr Podbregar was in Sovo, the State Attorney's Office has filed an action for the seizure of assets of more than EUR 61 000. Mr. Secretary, I've asked you this in writing once before, and then you've answered me very correctly. Among others, you also wrote that the court in Ljubljana decided not to give priority to the soviet case due to the burden of the judge. At the same time, it was said that the judge who received the case was very burdened and that he also had the most outstanding cases. In some three years, however, the Vice-President of the Ljubljana District Court assessed that it was necessary to wait too long for the start of the decision in the Owl case, and that priority was given to resolving the case on 26 March last year. Dear Minister, there are also cases when the Slovenian judiciary hastens to take something forward and solves it as a matter of priority. I want to know: How will the Slovenian judges decide which matter will be taken as a matter of priority, which violent affair will be solved up-to-date? Are they also deciding whether to let one of these cases or one of the affaires go on? Do you have any information as to what stage this criminal trial has now taken place in Owl? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u192	Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. First, with regard to the dynamics of court cases. Under our Law on Courts, cases are dealt with as a matter of priority in cases where the law itself provides for, not necessarily, a law on courts, but also any other area law. However, on the basis of Article 13a of the Act, the judge may, in a concrete assessment of the case, take into account the nature of the case, given the importance of the case for the parties, in order to give priority to it. This usually takes place in the case-law in such a way that the party is interested in giving priority to its case and therefore makes a special request to the court, substantiates it and then the judge decides whether or not to take the case to priority work. Otherwise, the following rule applies. The judge must deal with matters in the light of the date of receipt of the first procedural act, such as actions or requests for investigation or charges. The advantages, of course, have legal priorities, as I mentioned, and the advantages have those priorities for which the judge so decides. On the specific matter you are asking me about, I do not have accurate data, of course I can obtain it further if you wish, and in a written explanation I will also present to you what will be referred to me by the court. However, I would like to point out something else about the dynamics of the case; in recent times, the Presidents of the courts have increasingly warned me that the parties are less complaining about the delay in the trial. And there are more and more dissatisfied parties, usually those who are sued, or those who are accused of court handling matters too quickly. This is a very good signal for me, because this confirms my assessment that the annual statistics on court work show that the speed of resolution of Slovenian courts is greatly increasing and that the backlogs are greatly reduced, that the number of outstanding more important and other cases is decreasing. And this is a good signal, and it is obvious in the general public that there is still some perception that our trial mills are traditionally slow and then that party in a process that has no interest in participating in a judicial procedure will experience a certain surprise. So we will have to accept that our judicial system is still becoming more effective and that our judicial mills are not as slow as they are grinding more and more confidently. And as Minister, I can be a moderate optimist in this regard, so that this dynamic of solving matters will continue. Of course, not everything is ideal, far from it; there are areas, say, because of the economic crisis, economic conflicts are now very exposed. There are courts that still face problems, and there is usually such a way that these hands of resolution are, on average, too long. With the last amendment of the law, we have made an important action here, which is now being used by the Presidents of the Courts by transferring either judges or judges. [[or files]] less burdensome courts, thereby balancing the loads within the entire judicial districts. So we have mechanisms that allow us to gradually approach around the same average time at country level. It is likely that it will never be possible to talk about ideal time standards, but it will surely decrease. And wherever they're going to go down. And everywhere where the party thinks that the court has failed to respect the order, the principle of order of resolution of matters, that its case has been taken forward and that there was no reasonable reason for it and that it did not give priority to the resolution of matters, then, of course, the party may appeal to the judge, to the President of the Court, also to me as Minister, and that I may take advantage of my powers there. And the same applies to cases where the client thinks that the court is too slow to solve her case. There too we all have the said, the Presidents of the Courts and the Minister, certain powers to reach out to the client's statements and then to ensure that, if they prove to be justified, the resolution of the cases is accelerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u194	Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thanks again. Dear Minister, there is no evidence that the courts in Slovenia can work quickly or slowly. In your reply, I also discussed among the lines the satisfaction of the private action brought against Janez Janša by Franci Perčič on the evidence of the udbov past and on the immunity of Janez Janša we will decide at this meeting. In this case, the court was indeed expedient. Within two months, it called for a hearing, which is good, and that is also right. However, the same vats should apply to everyone in this country. With regard to Mr Podbregar, it was not until three years after the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office brought an indictment that this case really showed priority. Therefore, there is no way for me to get rid of the feeling that, in the case of Owl, Mr Podbregarje, there is an obvious intention of delaying or, God forbid, even obsolescence. The Minister-General, when considering the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office on the Internal Policy Committee for 2009 we could see, according to the Prosecutor's Office, that almost 12,000 charges were dropped in Slovenia, and 251 cases were in 2009 due to the excessive prosecution. The prosecution states that these cases were not outdated because of the prosecution's guilt, that the ergo was outdated because of the guilt of the courts, and that there was no Satex case at the time. We citizens, as well as Members, do not know which cases are involved, which in one way or another are obsolete. I myself believe that these are cases where various gentlemen are involved, not poor people. Well, those who have money that can afford expensive lawyers. Minister, I ask you: Are you monitoring the information that cases in Slovenian courts are obsolete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u196	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. First of all, I must correct you, honourable Member. With regard to the criminal proceedings against Janez Janša today, the District Court in Ljubljana has denied allegations that have been emerging for some time. In this case, the main proceedings were not opened, according to the Court’s data. She couldn't even be listed because there are no procedural conditions for it. All of this is written in a press release that you can read on the website of the District Court in Ljubljana, so this comparison was not happy. It also compares with a procedure against your client, which is a civil procedure, which is also mentioned in some media records, in order to be dealt with quickly, the court denies this. And from the data I compare here, on November 12, 2008, an action was brought against your client and the hearing was filed on June 10, 2010. I don't see the exact unknown speed of the court here. Speaking of criminal proceedings and statutes. Satex also had something positive in it to a certain extent. In particular, it strongly encouraged all the courts and their presidents to carefully review all internal control mechanisms, including the establishment of a computer programme by the Supreme Court, which will be drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, to ensure that judges and the Presidents of the courts are automatically alerted in the computer to the approximation of obsolete deadlines. So, in this way, the courts are the ones responsible for monitoring the statute of limitations, not the minister. The Minister does not have access to any judicial file and to any circumstances relating to open cases, unless, of course, the Government has a particular legal interest as a party to the proceedings, which, of course, does not apply in criminal proceedings. As Minister, of course, I will endeavour to ensure that the courts in the annual reports and in the work plans, which they now have to adopt after the latest amendment of the Law on Courts, which I believe will make an important contribution to strengthening judicial management, must also assess this aspect. I therefore expect that, for reasons which are not objective in nature, future cases would be obsolete, I stress this, because there will still be an obsolescence in a certain proportion, but for objective reasons. Like if the defendant escaped and we're looking for him with a warrant and stuff. I don't think so. That is how I expect to see a significant improvement in the situation here in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u198	Mr. Friday, would you like a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u199	Yeah, sure. Thank you very much. In the hope or hopelessness of the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, which we see also being shot down by corruption, I propose that in the spirit of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the next meeting we discuss the reply of Minister Zalar. With respect to the long-term trial in the Republic of Slovenia, I will send you one information, written information from Koroška, from Raven to Koroška, where, in one case, the 23-year trial took place for one narrow road, which is 20.30 metres long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u200	On the proposal of Member Mir Petk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 February 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In preparation, the Common Agricultural Policy is intended to define European agriculture by 2020 and some of the requirements include guidelines to ensure food security, quality and diversity. Of course, the situation in nature shows that this will be a rather difficult task, because the weather catastrophes, which are partly the result of climate change, such as last year's fires in Russia, when the Russian Federation banned grain exports – by the way, I am surprised that Russia, since it no longer has an old system, can even export grain and produce it enough. So, the fires in Russia, the floods in Australia, the drought in the USA, Argentina, Spain, all of this is going to charge the price of grain and it's going to go all over the food chain and other food products. And now there's another danger. Price growth: real work, tangible work, justifying the increase in demand on a more modest offer, and of course, a cutting-edge work that will be available to various lobbyists. It would come from the price of bread, as presented in the media. 18% belongs to a farmer who works with raw materials, cereals for almost a year: autumn sowing, energy, work, hours, care, because if there are only a few hours of bad weather, the crop goes wrong. Then there's a puck in this chain that cuts 21%. So, he's got his work done in one good shit, when the bread burns, he leads him to the store. And the largest share is cut off by trade, 61 % by price. On the Committee on Agriculture, we had already had a debate on this subject, and it turned out that suppliers were intimidated by large shopping centres, that they were blackmailing, that they did not hope to speak. If we remember very far back, even in Jankovič's time, they were paying extra for special product shelves, for more visible shelves, where they are more accessible, the sponsorships of different clubs and different moments. Actually, our eaters are already setting up supermarkets, so I'm asking: Where are the reserves so that food is not irritated and there is a greater possibility of self-sustainment in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u203	Mr Member, thank you for asking. Greetings also to all other Members and Members. In fact, the situation is not simple, as you have rightly established. In general, we have found in the area of agriculture and food production that we need to implement some intervention measures. We did three interventions last year. We have found that there is such a poor liquidity situation that it is imperative that we carry out ongoing payments related to the CAP. Only in January and February do we want to pay 90 million euros, and most of this money has already been paid. In general, we are preparing legislation that will essentially solve some problems and the main Slovenian problem is that in 1991 we had 561,000 hectares of agricultural land, at the end of 2009 468,000. So, we lost the bad 100,000, of which 20,000 hectares of the best fields and gardens. The Ministry has therefore prepared an amendment to the agricultural land law. The adoption phase is so far away that tomorrow it is under consideration by the Committee of the Government for the Economy and I hope that it will come to you in Parliament as soon as possible. Another thing we have found is that in Slovenia there can be no dilemma as to whether food is for food or food for energy. He has already done damage to the natural development in this area in Slovenia. On our initiative, a group was set up to prepare a strategy, where there is room in Slovenia for agriculture, forestry and forestry for green energy, and where there is no space. This Commission also needs to find out what about existing biogas plants or those opening up. In any event, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will agree only on such proposals as the expert committee will say are good and none other. As regards the relations in the food chain, I would like to say that we understand that all four members, the farmer, the food producer, the trade and the consumer must be respected, have a role to play. Of course, the most important is the consumer, who needs to be protected. We ourselves have observed that in this area things are not what we want. The first thing we've noticed is a great lack of transparency. Data is hard to come by; the data we receive is such that those who give it to us give it under strict confidentiality because they are afraid of reactions, especially trade. What bothers us at this time in the Slovenian food chain – and exactly the same is true for European and also at European level we are actively looking for solutions – is intransparency, there are payment deadlines, margins that are not visible to the consumer – the condition is that they must be visible in particular to the consumer – and then business practices that are still allowed, but are not desirable as ratings that represent a higher cost to individual companies than the annual cost of wages. All of this, in our view, has a negative impact on Slovenian food production and is stifling. Therefore, together with the Minister of Economy, we set up a commission, a group where both representatives of agriculture, i.e. farmers, trade representatives, food producers and, in particular, consumers, and then some experts, are present. The task of this group is to draw up, on the basis of a 2010 European Parliament resolution, a code that must be monitored or a system of punishment should also be established, what happens if the code is not complied with. The fact is that this code can only be reached on a voluntary basis. We have examples of good practice in Europe, I hope that the development of the business system of arrangements is also possible in Slovenia and that this will be regulated. If that is not possible, we owe it, and we are also preparing a special law with a very clear purpose to increase transparency and fairness in the distribution of added value throughout the chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u205	Absolutely. First of all, I thank the Minister for his answers. I must also confirm for myself that Mr Minister has been quite involved in this issue lately, since he was first consulted by the committee and then at the university level. I was very sorry that I could not attend because of the weather. But there are other things that appear. It's not just an assignment with the Minister, it's an interdisciplinary matter. In any case, there is a whole set of necessary measures that should be carried out hand in hand with the Minister of Economy. I do not have the best opinion on the commissions, but if this is one step towards a solution, it can be said that we have taken action in this area. However, a range of measures could be even wider, for I would point out the suspected cartel bargaining between wholesalers. The prosecution somehow stopped, and I think the information officer saved them at the time, but still feels like they've made a deal on the market. Of course, if there is an artificial shortage and high price building, intervention imports from some third markets can place more goods on the market. I would also like to warn you about inspections, because if we go to supermarkets, we see what bad goods are sometimes sold. For example, I would like to point out that in some chain, meat of Austrian origin is now being sold, which is date-consuming and can be seen at first sight that something is missing, and maybe 10 cents is cheaper, and the fair price would be more or less half price. It is certainly necessary to continue the actions "from villas to forks", that is, processing and selling at home. Otherwise, civil disobedience in the style of Ivan Oman may also take place, free of charge. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you. I would like to say that we talk a lot at the level of the competent ministers, not only for food, but also for the economy, finance and development. I must say, we are quite united in our assessment, and we all know what we must do. We believe that it will be possible to follow the code, but we have no reservations that if we find that this method is not possible and that the anomaly of the market is present, we must also eliminate the anomaly of the market. What matters to me is the following. Different data are emerging in Slovenia whether we have problems or not. Only partial data are available to us as the competent Ministry of Consumer, Food and Agriculture. Data between food production and trade are very unreachable to us, except for individual ones, which must not be made public. That is why I also asked for a report from the Competition Protection Office to see what information they have at their disposal, what they have done so far and where we need to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Home Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Good evening, Madam Secretary and Minister! I am glad that at the flood of bad news we can also say in some of the areas that we are moving forward, that we are doing well, and that we are successful. Isn't that right, Milenka? It's been a year since we set up the National Investigation Office, which we originally called the "Slovenian FBI". It is simply an office investigating organised forms of crime, the most difficult economic and other offences. When the story was born, she was accompanied by a reptile of critics on the road, thinking of not saying anything else. Today, after one year, we can be of good will, because there were quite a few positive messages in the media on this anniversary, especially on the specific work done. How do you, Madam Minister, judge the first year of this story?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Chairman. Messengers and Members! Dear Member, thank you for asking. Unfortunately, there are rare occasions when we listen to positive news, even when we give it a hint, we face it with a smile that does not seem very sincere. Too bad, this society deserves a positive charge, a realization that things can be done better than they have been done in previous years. Persecution of economic crime, however it is already one of those which is on the agenda all the time and where people are consistently and justifiably dissatisfied, is one of those where a great step forward has been taken. We can't say we can't be satisfied, not yet. Procedures must end once, and people must see once that justice has indeed been done, but things are going to end and one day they will come to an end. That, at the same time as our society’s development, it has developed a way to abuse new economic mechanisms, to abuse first, of course, is no longer a secret. One of the worse things that came after our independence and also with our rapid economic development are also attempts to find quick profits, easy profits and also illegal earnings. Today, too, due to the consequences of the crisis, unfortunately, there are still a number of consequences that are even worse because individuals on their noses are looking for ways to save themselves, their assets, forgetting about workers, forgetting about businesses, forgetting at the end of the day also about the country that they should, say, pay taxes or do other positive things. Unfortunately, one part of the development trend is also going in this direction, of course we have not overlooked at the Ministry of the Interior. One of the main priorities of our work was to improve the way this type of persecution is done, especially because it is an area that is substantively very difficult and requires very good knowledge and knowledge of certain procedures also in other areas, not just classical criminalism. That is why last year we set up the National Investigation Office. One year after that, the first candle was blown up and has something to show for it, despite the fact that by the end of last year, only one third of the people who had been scheduled for this work worked there. With only 25 investigators out of a total 86, as far as they were supposed to be in the process of gradually upgrading the employment of this office, this office managed to deal with 17 extremely complex cases, which resulted in 68 crimes. A number of criminal charges were subsequently filed against 73 suspects. I reiterate that the office is only getting a good heat, and it is just getting a good start, and it is already taking such concrete steps. In addition, in Slovenia, there is some mistaken opinion that it is not possible to seize illegally acquired property. But the truth is that this arrangement is as it is, and we will also change it and upgrade it. This is one of the priorities of this government. It allows a purely similar seizure, such as in Croatia. In Croatia, it is often said that the assets of former Prime Minister Sanader have been frozen. When this happens to us, it kind of goes away, because, as we said at the beginning, they're obviously not in place for this government, and sometimes they would be. Indeed, the National Investigation Office, in addition to the criminal police, which is also separate from it, has proposed seizures of as many as a few million euros. And to this day, a virtual court of EUR 5.3 million has already seized, frozen such assets. The last of such cases, where the Office has submitted a proposal, is also media resounding, you all know it, all crimes committed in connection with Mercury. We're still waiting for the decision. In addition, in addition to what has already been decided, the National Investigation Office has also submitted an additional EUR 10 million of asset seizure initiatives, which unfortunately are still on the prosecution's side. In fact, it is the prosecution who must process these proposals to bring them forward to court to decide on them. I really hope that this great police activity can be followed by the prosecution, because if the whole chain doesn't work, then it won't be here either. And here is where I especially look forward to better cooperation in the future. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Saiovic?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. True, the good news in this area is coming. It is also true that, of course, the success story of the Investigation Office has shown that Slovenia and Slovenians do not have such bad legislation in this area, only work needs to be done and then success will come. The last part of your question mentioned that this is a multi-phase process. That's right. If the offence is a start, then a successful investigation by the National Investigation Office is the first step, and then until the conviction, it usually takes a few more years, possibly even years, and much more precise work needs to be done, especially in the field of the various national authorities. We are all convinced that the story can be even better, even faster, even more successful. What do you think, Madam Minister, is yet to be done in this chain so that we will be even more satisfied next year at this time?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Yes, as you said, for the final success, because this success is decided by the court, a whole chain is needed. First the police then the prosecution and eventually the court. And what we find today at the Ministry of the Interior is that the police have taken a huge step forward in their reorganisation. The establishment of the National Investigation Office – and this is also recognised by all European countries, including the world of Europe, also abroad, outside Europe, is a flat place for us here – is the largest and largest substantive reorganisation of the criminal police administration in our country. And this, of course, has a concrete result in many proposals, in many initiatives, in many criminal complaints. What's missing is the same pace forward and in the court and in the prosecution. And if I show just for example that there will be no impression that I am saying something in mind, let's say, over the last few years, there has been a particular increase in the last two years, 100 % more than in the last five years, for example, there have been as many as 172 proposals for asset seizure initiatives that are expected to stem from a crime. And at the next stage in the prosecution, only 18 of them were processed and at the next stage in the court, so much less. So obviously the imbalance is between how active the police are today, how trained the police are, how things go. And I really have high hopes for this improvement in the organisation and the clear way of working both in the prosecution and in the court, especially in the field of economic crime. I am pleased that this government has placed among its priorities the adoption of the penal code, the law on criminal proceedings, the law on courts, which regulates all two essential matters. One is to strengthen the special prosecution group, which will be significantly larger than it is now, this will in fact be the 12th Slovenian Prosecutor's Office, which will be specially trained to prosecute worse forms of crime, with particular emphasis on economic crime. The Law on Courts will bring in additional mechanisms to truly bring to life the special Senate of Judges, which will judge only these particularly difficult economic matters. Just as police officers and criminals had to be trained, prosecutors must be trained and judges must be trained. And because it is an absolute whole package of reforms that will eventually bring about quicker judicial decisions, including a faster path to justice, what people expect, I really count on the opposition's participation here and their constructive attitude in the adoption of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Stefan Tessel, since the Minister of Labour, the family is not in the hall, will you still ask a question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u217	Nice greeting, Vice-President, Madam Minister and Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In view of the fact that there are more unemployed people each day, the number of 100,000 and more reached the end of the year at the end of last year, 110 thousand. During last year, 7 000 unemployed were included in the employment programme through public works, which was allocated to 35 million, and this year this year it fell dramatically. Only 16 million are available and only 2 000 600 unemployed are available. It is said that this is a paradox, so many more unemployed and so few programmes and less resources for inclusion in public works. We know that among these hundreds of thousands of those who are about two years or up to two years before the retirement age, and because of their fear of the new pension law, they went on hold to be retired in their old ways. Public works could also include those, as they are often highly professional people, belonging to this risk group of unemployed people over 50, over 55 years of age, and could, instead of being compensated, be helpful in public works. However, the biggest paradox was precisely with humanitarian organisations that helped themselves with public workers in their work, as well as with the Red Cross, because 56 district workers have one regular employee at a time, mostly while others have helped to collect, store and distribute social assistance both by clothing, food for these workers through public works and the matter has worked out very well. Last year’s 2011 invitation to tender, however, practically all applications were rejected with the exception of two, and lots were also used. This is a major damage because Red Cross and other humanitarian organizations cannot afford regular employees and help themselves with public works alongside volunteers. I therefore ask Mr Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons: Why did the funds go down? Is the Ministry preparing any additional programmes in this area so that public works can also enable humanitarian organisations to take care of people?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you. I'm still asking, do you want me to give you an oral answer at the next session? Yeah. Okay. He'll answer you at the next session. Mr. Bevk alone, the Minister of Health is absent, will you ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I have already asked the first question concerning hospital infections in 2001 to the then Minister, Dr Dusan Kebra, and then to all his successors. Finally, Minister Borut Miklavčičič in October 2009. At that time, I also gave the Minister the initiative of the Ministry of Health, together with the competent services, to prepare a second Slovenian national preliminary study on hospital infections. As part of the seminar on hospital infections at the Ljubljana Medical Faculty last April, it was found that these are the only major problem in working with patients. The fact is that the first epidemiological investigation after 25 Slovenian intensive departments was not carried out until 1997. MRSA prevalence was 75%. In October 2001, the first national cross-sectional study of hospital infections showed 61.8% of MRSA prevalence in intensive units and around 30% to 40% in hospitals in general, indicating the extent of the problem in Slovenia and placing us side by side with the southern European countries where the situation is worst. With the consistent implementation of preventive measures, in particular the disinfection of the deadlines of the healthcare staff, we have also achieved improvement in our country. According to the seminar, they managed to reduce the number of MRSA transfers to 100 admitted patients from 10 to 2 patients in the intensive unit of the Infectious Diseases Clinic and the fever conditions of the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. Unfortunately, the data isn't that good everywhere. I ask Dr. Dorian Marusic, Minister of Health: What is the situation in the area of hospital infection management in Slovenian hospitals today? I'm also interested in: Has the Ministry of Health, together with the competent services, already begun carrying out another Slovenian national preventive hospital infection study? The former Minister has promised me that this project will be implemented. Therefore, I would like to thank the Minister in advance for his reply at the first next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you. The Minister will answer to you at the next meeting. Now, I ask Branka Marinič whether, despite the absence of the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, he will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Although there are no respected ministers, Dr Patrick Vlačič and Dr Frances Križanič, I will ask an oral question, to which I would also like an oral answer to the next meeting of the National Assembly. The system of the national carrier of the Slovenian Railway is also deepening into the financial crisis. On 16 December 2010, the government coalition of the National Assembly adopted laws defining investments in public railway infrastructure and the new organisation of Slovenian railways. Both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors have warned the applicant, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the proposed legal change is questionable in view of the capital inadequacy of the Slovenian Railway System. On 6 November 2010, the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, said that Slovenian railways would be financially rehabilitated by the end of 2010. My question is: How was the financial rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways carried out? Last year, the Slovenian Railways recognised obligations from previous years, from 2003 to 2009, amounting to €40 million. On the basis of what contract with the Slovenian Railways will these obligations be settled and in what amount? And the third question: How are the ministries going to solve the problem of transferring freight assets to infrastructure, the 140 million euro circus, and at what time? Thank you very much for the oral answers to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Minister for Labour, no family, will you ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u223	Mr Vice-President, first of all, I must express great disappointment at what I see here before me – two ministers, before that was only one minister. The attitude of the Government towards citizens and citizens as well as Members is very clear here. I cannot believe that you are the Government, so ministers cannot take the time to come to answer the key parliamentary questions that we are asking here, at least once a month. The meeting of the National Assembly, the plenary session takes place once a month and lasts for 5 days or 6 or 7 days, and it is not possible for this ministerial assembly, together with the President, to take the time to determine when the majority of ministers may be present here in the National Assembly and then to place this item on the agenda. It's amazing, I think it's a shame, if Slovenians and Slovenians are watching this now, they can only be ashamed that they voted for such a ministerial assembly and such a government. This is unacceptable, extremely irresponsible and rude. It's rude of those people who voted for you. Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice-President, I conclude. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u224	Mr. Pojbich, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u225	I'm sorry. But I couldn't get past it, because it's simply unacceptable. So I have a question for Mr Svetlik, and I will try to be very brief, because I simply cannot ask much one way or another, because if the ministers are not here, then it is also clear that I cannot get any smart answers anyway. The question, therefore, is the following and is intended for the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs, persons with disabilities, Mr Svetlik. I'm asking. As you know, we can read a lot in the media and hear that work in the public administration is very ineffective. On the one hand, it is stated that workers who are expected to work under expectations are taking advantage of hospital leave and are also in violation of other labour laws. On the other hand, employers in the public administration are responsible for non-compliance with and non-compliance with labour law and thus reduce the efficiency of public administration work. All of this affects the efficiency of public administration or the different responses in the public sector, as public spending and thus public servants represent a large part of budget spending, as it must be effective in all aspects. Within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there is also an inspection for work. I'm asking the minister: How many times have employers in public administration or public servants been dealt with as violators of labour law in the last three years? How many times has the infringement been detected in these cases? Who were the perpetrators? How big are they? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you. Would you like an answer to the next meeting? [[Yeah.]] All right, the minister will respond to the next meeting. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Dear Minister, please forgive me for asking questions about the possibility of implementing the Law on the Triglav National Park, and perhaps in this way I am burdening you with perhaps at first sight irrelevant questions. Perhaps my view of the matter is too black-sighted, but the situation shows that now that they have succeeded in adopting the law, they have forgotten the obligations they have received by adopting a new law. I am also personally concerned about this passivity, for I actively participated in the preparation of the law and also answered certain questions. The government should have been in force within three months of the law’s entry into force — the law was enforced 15. 10th last year – to harmonise the Act establishing a public institution and it is not yet there. The public service couldn't do that until 15. 1. 2011 to harmonise their statutes as required by law. That is why the old world of the institution is working forward and adopting both a work programme and a financial plan, which is inconsistent with the law adopted. The 2011 proposal for a public administration programme shows that the EUR 500 000 additionally earmarked by the new budget for the needs of the Triglav National Park will be spent on accommodation and no development needs. This confirms my concern, as well as the fact that, even in Article 56, it is now increasingly showing that these funds will be devoted to the main tasks of Articles 42, 43, 44 and 46, where the primary nature-protection tasks are defined. However, if anything remains, there may be something else for development tasks, and only if this is set out in the work programme of the institution and in the management plan that is not yet in place. Such a provision, 50 for development and 50 for protection tasks, essentially has no content, has no coverage as promised. I read this provision as set out in Article 55, "The Public Institute acquires funds for the management of the park," so they are itss and are intended for management, and there are no explicitly visible development tasks. They shall be decided by the Council of the Institute, which has not yet been appointed in accordance with the new law. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: When will the government harmonise the act establishing a public institution, as stipulated by the law? When will the Minister issue the management guidelines, which is also stipulated by the new law? When will the government adopt a sub-legislative act on how to give incentives, which also provides for a new law? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u229	Your Honor! Thank you very much. You'll see from the answer that things aren't just so black, but they're a little late, and I'll explain why. The implementation of the law, which entered into force in July 2010, is one of the priorities of our ministry in 2011. The decision to establish a public institution, the decision to establish temporary management guidelines and the implementation of Article 11, which is aimed primarily at promoting sustainable development in the Triglav National Park area, are problems that are at the forefront and which you have also highlighted. I'll go in one order. A draft decision on the establishment of a public institution has already been prepared in our Ministry and was also made within that promised period. However, the delay arose because it was necessary to wait for the identification of the public service mark. To this end, a special invitation to tender was issued in autumn 2010, and it was completed in January 2011. The draft Decision is currently in the coordination phase. The proposal for a decision will be sent to the Government in February, it is said very shortly, and we expect it to be adopted, if not in February, at least in early March. As regards temporary management guidelines. The Public Institute of Triglav National Park has already drawn up expert points for the preparation of a decision on the establishment of temporary management guidelines, which was also briefed by the Council of the Public Institute at its sixth meeting. The Ministry is currently preparing an updated draft provisional management guidelines. The updated draft is the basis for the preparation of a decision laying down the provisional management guidelines adopted by the Minister. And this procedure will be completed by the end of February at the latest, says within one month. The provisional management guidelines are the legal basis for the management of the Triglav National Park and shall enter into force by signature of the Minister. They shall apply as from the notification of the decision to the manager of the Triglav National Park, this shall happen in February. Third problem. In order to achieve sustainable development, the Triglav National Park Act in Article 10 sets out development activities and activities consistent with the objectives of the Triglav National Park. In order to achieve priority and higher co-financing of projects in park municipalities, Article 11 sets out instruments that allow for the establishment of priority and higher co-financing. Article 11, paragraph 8, provides that the Government shall lay down more detailed criteria and criteria for determining the level of co-financing of projects, investments and activities set out in Article 10 of the Act. The fact is that cross-cutting cooperation is essential for the implementation of Article 11 as individual ministries are already regulating incentives and co-financing for such activities. The instruments provided for in Article 11 must be brought into the existing instruments of other ministries. That is why we at the Ministry have called for substantive cooperation from the other ministries. There's meetings going on. Operational implementation of programmes in specific areas will depend on the specific circumstances that vary in the individual resources, where they are linked to a long-term programming policy, elsewhere to an annual operational integration policy in the preparation of public programming calls. This cooperation will also include park municipalities with which we plan specific cooperation in the selection of priority projects which could be co-financed under Article 11 of the Law. In addition, it is also a priority for the public administration to draw up a management plan, which is a core programme document defining the content of sustainable development. The decision to initiate the preparation of the plan, to carry out the signing procedure, is expected to be signed by the end of February 2011. And the plan will be based on this decision. But I have to say that we have some problems with this. Indeed, many times, when a law is passed here, there are financial obligations, which our ministry has many times [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I'm very glad that you've been very honest with me, but I'm kind of disappointed in your answers. For they are going this way, as I have expressed fear. This law will eventually be a dead letter on paper, like the previous law. We went to change the Triglav National Park Act just for the reason that the former was inoperable. We have incorporated into this law a number of instruments that enable the Ministry to carry out its tasks in a qualitative manner, and you have just confirmed in your replies my fear that we have not done anything new with the new law. It was all "when" and "if" another comment was, "which could be financed" and so on. I think that in the debates that took place both in the National Assembly and in the Committee and in the public debates across all the supreme municipalities, we have made very explicit promises, mainly from your side, by the Ministry and the drafters of this law. Now these things are moving away more and more, and I don't think that's good. These formal things, which the Government and the Ministry should arrange, are to be organised by the institution as required by the Law, which is the least possible, because this also means a new composition of the institution's world, which also means a new operational competence in accordance with the new law. And we haven't done that either, and that's the least we should do. So I have a very bad feeling that what people were saying at the time will happen is that the only thing that will happen is that the punishments will remain, that the preventions will remain, but there will be nothing new, nothing developmental, nothing that we have promised in the debates. So look forward to any further questions on our part, as well as any concrete initiative to make sure that these things are definitely settled. I know that this may not be the first priority in these times of crisis, but I would not like this new law, which we have practically unanimously adopted in the National Assembly, to remain inoperable as was the previous law and that this will be an excuse for not being able to do anything. The instruments were installed, the Ministry is required to bring them to life.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u233	Again, I think we're a little too black-eyed. Around these formalities, there has been a delay of a bad month, and I think that the speed of implementation, which we do have in practice, is not such a great sin. Another issue regarding operationality. Operationality, as I said, depends not only on our ministry, but also on the others. However, I have a particular problem, for example, because of the restriction on employment, I cannot possibly reach the four promised inspectors, with the full employment of our inspectors. That's one thing! Four million is not in the budget we promised in marriage. So there are some things that we accept in this House, which are then not given to us as custodian, and sometimes there is a big problem with law enforcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u235	Yeah, sure. In order to assist the Minister in continuing the effectiveness of these tasks in this law, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, his reply be discussed. I think it'll help him. However, as regards the lack of people and so on, look at the harmonisation act establishing, which is a basic condition that this law enters into force and that under the new law the world also begins to deal with these matters and, I would say, harmonise its statutes and pursue all other tasks, and I think it does not matter what you said, lack of personnel. The guidelines and the management plan are also not linked to inspectors, these are some of the basic measures or activities the Ministry must take to bring this law into force and the new structure begins its work. Regardless of what I agree with you that the problems concerning inspectors, the exercise of control and everything else are likely to be, the Ministry has the task of establishing the situation required by the new law within the meaning of the authorities and all other powers. That is why I propose that this answer be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Danijel Krivec to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question of the Member of Parliament will be decided tomorrow, 1 February, in the framework of the votes. Mr Mirko Brulc will now ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u237	Mr. Secretary, I apologize for this late hour. Of course, the day-to-day evidence that the rule of law has been cancelled will be most easily denied by the up-to-date and professional work of the judicial authorities. I'm an optimist, because the positive shifts are visible every day. More than two years ago, Goriško was surprised by the news that the recognised Slovenian MIP industry is going bankrupt. More than 400 workers and workers in the wider Gori district have lost their jobs. It was stolen, and we can also say a very valuable Slovenian brand of MIP. The previous administration was granted over 100 million loans to purchase equipment from the fund to help the small economy of the Municipality of Nova Gorica to help a successful and important economic society. After the arrival of the new, this last administration, the company was literally destroyed. MIP went bankrupt and I know that a whole series of actions have been filed against actors that have also destroyed the MIP. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Can you at least give an indicative indication when the courts will consider the MIP case in order to obtain at least one legal epilogue of the clearly destroyed social property? And if you know: Was the property of the last owner of the MIP also blocked? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, one explanation for the government's defense, because earlier this explanation did not come from behind the boards of defense. Those ministers who are not here today are not because they have legal obligations abroad, and this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and established practice, and I hope you understand that. Dear Member, the MIP is certainly one of the sad, also tragic Slovenian stories, the stories of our economy. The Court deals with those cases concerning the MIP which it has received so far. In fact, it only received a proposal for bankruptcy, I am speaking to the Regional Court in Novi Gorica, where my data originate. This bankruptcy procedure started on 7 April 2009 and the main problem in this bankruptcy procedure is in this, according to the Court's report, that all previous attempts at the sale of property have failed, at least the main features of this property, such as the Kromberk plant or, say, artistic works, most butchery, the Tolmin plant. In view of the fact that the purpose of the bankruptcy procedure is to pay creditors as best as possible, creditors, of course, play a decisive role in the design of the initial selling prices. The reality of the creditors’ expectations regarding the sale of the insolvency debtor’s assets is reflected in the very duration of the bankruptcy procedure, which is in the nature of the bankruptcy procedure. Otherwise, the court shall report that it does not deal with any proceedings which would be related to the plea and would be linked to the MIP case, including non-economic proceedings. However, I have received information from the Prosecutor's Office that the Prosecutor's Office, a special group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, is directing a very extensive predictive procedure on what was going on in the MIP. This forecasting procedure is composed of three sets following a communication from the State Prosecutor's Office. And in two parts, the pre-trial procedure has already been completed by filing a criminal complaint, and in one section it will be completed in a short time with a criminal complaint and a prosecutorial decision will be taken. Such a procedure is usually followed by a decision on either a request to initiate a judicial investigation, perhaps also a direct action or a supplementation of an appeal if the prosecution considers that there is still something to be done. Therefore, the Court cannot do anything in this part at this time, because, as you know, as everywhere in the world, there is no judge without the defendant. And now, first of all, the prosecution is the one who must complete this task as soon as possible, which is reported to be very extensive. From the data available to me, these are the figures from the Regional Court in Novi Gorica that the proposal to block property has not yet been received by the court. This does not mean that such a proposal cannot be made; this is probably linked to the conduct of the pre-trial procedure and also to the decision of the prosecution on the direction in which the proceedings are to be conducted. However, they have creditors – and this information may have become more widely known to the general public in connection with the recent case at the District Court in Cerknica, which has decided to block assets related to the SCT – but the creditors have the opportunity to obtain in the enforcement procedure to secure their receivables, if, of course, they prove that such claims are likely to exist and that such claims against the debtor have arisen and, of course, if there is a risk of alienation of assets, concealment or any other disposition of assets. In this case, creditors can thus achieve this in the civil enforcement procedure. My recommendation as Minister, not only in this case, but in all other cases where there is a legitimate fear that something like this could happen, is that the creditors of this institution serve as much as possible, clearly, normally after prior consultation with legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik, Minister of Labour and Minister of Economy Yes, is here. Here you are, Mr Podkrzyžnik, you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have an oral question for Minister Radic. The vast majority of highly educated personnel are employed in non-economic activities, according to my information. I am convinced that this potential would have contributed much more to Slovenia if it had been employed in the economy itself. I'm asking: What do you intend to do to ensure that more highly educated staff are employed in the economy in order to achieve a balance of intellectual personnel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! Mr Istok Podkrižnik, thank you for the question. I must say that, of course, at the Ministry of Economy and in general in the Government, we are interested in as many experts as possible in the economy, because we also see that young people prefer to work in non-economic activities as much as they do in the economy. Of course, we need to know why this is happening first. It is obvious that the absorption capacity of the economy is, therefore, companies that offer sufficiently interesting, attractive services, if I may say so, whether young people's employment is still too low. Of course, there are a number of other reasons. As we are aware that the competitiveness of the economy will also depend on the quality of the people, what knowledge in the economy will be, as we are always very much stressing this, we have also prepared and are already implementing several measures within the framework of the Ministry of Economy's actions, both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to encourage the transition or employment of young professionals into the economy. First mention is made of two calls already running and contributing to the employment of young professionals in the economy. The first is to co-finance the employment of young researchers in the economy. This is a call that is quite successful and also highly commended by the economy. Then we have another measure where we co-finance mainly small and medium-sized enterprises with so-called interdisciplinary disciplines involving experts from different specific areas that help individual companies develop a particular product or a particular business model. These two measures are, therefore, intended to employ as many young people as possible either directly from schools or now from non-economic backgrounds from research institutes in the economy. Of course, the key to attracting young people into the economy is, as I have already mentioned, that businesses themselves will be able to provide real and attractive services for young researchers. This is what we call the absorption capacity of companies in law and, to that end, at the Ministry of the Economy, we have in fact been implementing various measures to promote development activities in businesses for two and a half years. Let me now mention the last call, the results of which will be known in the coming days, is a call for the co-financing of the development centres of the Slovenian economy. These calls, from which we will co-finance the best projects, comprehensive projects in various technological areas, are intended to co-finance the creation of new jobs, new quality jobs and, of course, also the establishment of new companies that will provide services for young professionals. However, I must also mention that within the framework of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology in the framework of the research, innovation strategy under preparation, and within the framework of the National Higher Education Programme, a number of measures are being prepared to promote the employment of young people in the economy. Among them, let me mention, for example, the participation of the economy in the preparation of study programmes, because we know that the study programmes must also be such that they are adapted to the needs of the economy, and that is not the case today. Then other measures to integrate staff from holdings into the higher education learning process, the reverse process must also be present. Then we have a number of other measures that we are trying to encourage and also to interest young people, who are studying, in order to decide on employment in the economy. A number of measures are on this subject and, of course, any good proposal will always be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u245	Minister, I thank you for your answer. I must say that I am partly satisfied with this, but I am not entirely, because the situation in the economy today is significantly different. Thus, the economy needs much more technical knowledge today and we have in Slovenia, I will say, the structure, says, of many educated people in the economy and in the economy, and in fact we have little usable knowledge. There's a lot of knowledge, just not the right one. Thus, we must somehow give these people who are educated today, have an education, somehow restructure them and give them additional knowledge, the one who will actually give them bread in the future, so that they can eventually survive normally. What Slovenia should be or should be in the future is a very important issue. At the same time, all of us should worry and encourage us to think more about what this situation means for our future. There is a political, economic, education, education and values crisis in the world today. Above all, it is up to us, in what society and how we want to live in the future. So we have to somehow get these visions, the strategies that we have on paper, even in real life, into life somehow. So we have a lot of things well written down, but then when things go so far that they have to be implemented, somehow all these things get lost. So, to run a company successfully, it's not just a theory and the economy itself. What we need here is a lot of technical knowledge that needs to be upgraded every day at all levels of the company. We actually need this to run a company successfully, and if we don't change it somehow in a really fast time, we will have serious problems in the future, because today companies are facing major problems, they have orders, they have, I will say, developmental time, and only these personnel are actually missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you. Madam Secretary, can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Underpants. I fully agree with you, and we also note that, and consciously, we also stress that knowledge is the key factor that we need to ensure if we are to make the Slovenian economy more competitive. And also in the new industrial policy that we are preparing, one segment is dedicated to the right part of education for the needs of the economy. This is the area that has been missing in the Slovenian space in the past. In fact, education programmes have gone away from what the economy needs, and in this national higher education programme, the emphasis is precisely on involving economists in the development of curricula, according to the programmes themselves, and there are absolutely no differences in opinions here. Absolute support goes in the direction of training technical professions, because these are the professions that are actually lacking today and that the economy needs. As I said before, a few measures are quite concrete. What young researchers, interdisciplinary groups, have already encouraged some of these experts to work in the economy. With this call for the development centres of the Slovenian economy, I am convinced that many more young people, especially scientists and experts, will choose to work in the economy, in businesses. In short, all the measures are going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u249	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs! The Coalition Treaty also provided for the reform of electoral legislation and that part of media legislation relating to elections. Why? Voters want to have a greater impact on the identification and selection of candidates. The new faces, and the new candidates at least what they want, are equal in the election campaign. I was also a coordinator of non-parliamentary parties a month ago in the work of a special working group, but now I have no information on whether anything is going on in this area. I ask for an explanation of the course of action to amend the necessary electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u251	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member Magajna, yes, a working group that started working in March 2009, composed of representatives of the constitutional profession and all invited representatives of parliamentary parties, both coalitions and opposition, as well as non-parliamentary parties, also joined the Equal Opportunities Office later, in short, the Court of Auditors, members of the anti-corruption commission participated in the work of the Commission, which I formed on two fundamental issues. One thing is that it is necessary to amend the electoral law in the National Assembly, where ambition was to provide voters with a decisive impact on the choice of a Member or a Member. The Constitutional Section agreed on this issue that such an arrangement, as it is today, does not comply with the constitutional provision that, despite the proportional electoral system, the electorate and the electorate will have a decisive impact on the choice of a Member or a Member. The solution, as foreseen by the law today, provides a decisive influence in the way that voters can choose from the same party's list of names or 11 candidates in the individual electoral unit, including among candidates of the same party, to simplify. Now they don't have that option. The Member or Member of Parliament will be sent to which they will give the most preferential votes. It is an absolute, mandatory preferential voice as a solution to ensure a decisive impact on the choice of the electorate. This law also solves other issues. It addresses the issue of improved arrangements for the representative of members of the national communities. Because of the complexity of the electoral system, we have foreseen, in agreement with both national communities, a one-round majority electoral system, which corresponds significantly more to the complexities they have today. We have settled the issue that the Member States of the European Union know to bring the elections closer to them in a way that allows elections by post to the Slovenian electoral beneficiaries without a valid reason. This practice has been reviewed on the basis of the Ombudsman's request. And in this part and in other parts of the electoral legislation that is ready, we have answered all the relevant questions of the current time. As you all know, the approval of electoral legislation requires an important majority, 60 votes. I hope that in March, when we come to Parliament with this law, due to the right of voters to take decisive action and other improvements, this electoral law will be confirmed. Another important issue that you pointed out when you came to the working group was how to better regulate the equal representation of non-parliamentary parties in the process of running under the Referendum and Electoral Campaign Act. Already in the basic text of the law you have dealt with there, and in serious professional and public debate, we have found solutions which I can assess that actually allow non-parliamentary parties a more equal position than you have seen today. And maybe in two minutes I can present these solutions that are designed if you ask me a supplementary question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u253	At this very point where the Minister has finished, I would like to add to the question. Non-parliamentary parties or, say, new candidates, if they have come to the political scene with signatures – it is very difficult to come, almost impossible – expect to be equal at least at the time of the election campaign. They've been discriminated against twice. Firstly, for four years they do not reach the microphone, which is understandable, they are not coopt up in power, and at least this month, when we should actually have more time if we were already talking about discrimination, this should be positive discrimination. Voters won't choose candidates at first sight, even if they're so cute because they don't know them. Therefore, we would really like this Article 6 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act to be defined in such a way that it is not possible to provide for a smaller minute of a certain broadcast with the RTV Act and all that has been substantially corrected by this Act, from one third to two third, but still, if we are consistent, the new candidates are not equal to the already established candidates. I hope that something else will be done in preparation in this direction so that we can fulfil the constitutional right to equality.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The solutions in the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, which, I believe, respond adequately to this dilemma, are set out in the proposal as follows. The media are obliged, as proposed by law, to determine the conditions for the use of programming time or newspaper space in the event that part of their programming time or newspaper space is dedicated to free presentation of candidates and their programmes, to ensure to all organisers the same amount of this programming time or newspaper space. There's a perfect equality here. The same is true in the case of candidates' meetings, where the media must allow all campaign organisers to attend at least two-thirds of the meetings, compared to those organisers, they are usually the leading political parties or the leading candidates who are allowed to attend the most meetings. In particular, the bill obliges the media, which are directly or indirectly owned by the majority of the public, to provide at least one free publication of electoral propaganda messages to all organisers, to the extent that it provides substantive information. In order to increase voter information on candidates and their programmes, the law now provides the following solution to ensure transparency in the use of funds in the proposal. Legal persons are prohibited from financing an election campaign. This is why today the refund is converted to payment to parties or to parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties and to candidate lists that they are entitled to reimbursement from the State budget in a limited amount, as provided for in the law, to a publication in which at least 70% of the programme of the individual voter list should be held. This amount will be eligible for reimbursement if it reaches at least 2% of the results in the national elections. We are also going in this direction to make it possible for non-parliamentary parties to perform more equally. So that this law will also come to Parliament in March and, of course, we estimate that it also solves the problems that you have raised in this working group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Health, who is absent. You're still going to set it up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u257	So I wanted to ask the Minister of Health a question about some business, which was already agreed by former Minister Borut Miklavčič, namely, he signed an exchange contract for the building of the Institute for Health Protection in Trubarje 2 in Ljubljana for premises in the new building in the Vienna crystal. Since the company involved or building this building is in breach of its obligations under this pre-contract, I wonder what the Minister intends to do? In view of the exchange of contracts with the Ministry of Health, Mabra should have completed these works by the end of August. Then, together with the ministry, they agreed to extend this deadline until the end of October, but as we know, this work is still not finished. I want to know: Why did the Minister not decide to terminate the contract or enforce almost EUR 1.3 million of the contractual penalty contained therein? How does he intend to end the matter? He really didn't take the annexes forward to make things happen, but I'm curious about what he wants or what he's going to do with it. We know that he has made a proposal to the Anti-Money Laundering Office that they should review what has been done with this business, given that he is responsible for this, perhaps his ministry should do so. That is why I expect the ministers to have an oral answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you. The Minister will therefore respond to the next meeting. Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u259	Mr Minister, as you know, in coalition coordination, I have submitted a law trying to regulate the status of the members of the deleted companies. In fact, on the basis of the administrative criteria set out in the Financial Action Act 1999 it resulted in the automatic, retroactive, unopposed and defence liability of the deleted companies. This act of the National Assembly constitutes a departure, if not even a negativity of international corporate law and its fundamental principle in the separation of the property and personality of companies and their associates. Thousands of stories condemned by 17 thousand 80 people who are directly affected by this law are to be counted as their children, family members, heirs who are also under the letter of law today responsible for the obligations of deleted companies. This obligation could never, in a stable legal environment, in a state governed by law, in a country that has developed institutions for determining responsibility, become theirs. Therefore, I am convinced that the 1999 regime, whose remains we still have in our legislation, is only a cover for the insurance of creditors. If the solutions to this legislation were effective, they would not be accompanied today by stories such as SCT, Vegrad and similar, but we are witnessing legislation that has sunk small businesses that have been truly ignorant and unable to afford expensive lawyers, not large companies that are also the source of financial discipline today. The right answer for company guarantees is economic legislation with a review of the legal personality. It is interesting that we do not actually know this institution in judicial practice. It is no wonder, therefore, that instead of proving responsibility, we have bureaucraticly defined assumptions that determine guilt and responsibility. Large fish or sharks are not caught in these nets. Only small entrepreneurs are caught, which are usually also real brides. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Are the consequences of the Financial Business Act 1999 a problem for you? Are you going to save him? In your reply, do not forget the many citizens and citizens in our country who, due to the swift, reckless changes in legislation today, are condemned to the burdens that should not be theirs and are convicted without a trial, without the possibility of objecting and defending the letter of the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Commissioner, you know very well that at the Ministry of Justice, we have also recently listened attentively to the problems faced by people in relation to the responsibility imposed by legislation. I agree with your assessment that the arrangements in force or in force in 1999 were not evaluated. However, we no longer have this arrangement, and I would like to stress this in particular. So we have a 1999 law, which is no longer in force, so we can no longer interfere with it. However, we no longer have it because, in the meantime, the Constitutional Court intervened precisely on this issue, it has found that the legislator has to mitigate to a certain extent the excessive criteria established in 1999 and that the legislator has also followed the insolvency law, which today establishes significantly different criteria from those in force at the time. The 1999 Act was created in a situation where the state was faced with a change in the economic system, with the transition to a market economy. At that time, many in Slovenia decided to set up an economic society quickly, even in principle, "I will set it up just in case". This was then very cheap, fast and easy, and the result was confusion on the market. Because all of a sudden, there was a flood of companies that were still registered in the court register, but they weren't actually operating, but they had outstanding obligations. They had outstanding obligations towards others. In this situation, the State had to react. But once again, she reacted a little harshly. For this, the destruction of a non-business economy must, of course, take place due to the fact that we have a transparent free market. On the other hand, the question remains, to what extent are the members responsible for the company’s debts, which they so say leave dry. In this regard, following the intervention of the Constitutional Court, the principle was laid down that the debtors must, of course, be liable for their debts and to settle them to the greatest extent possible. It's not always possible. And where this is not possible, if this endangers the survival of the member, the legislator has established a personal bankruptcy institute, i.e. a corresponding proportionate reduction in the possibility of payment. However, in principle, our rule of law must protect creditors, and in particular now in times of economic crisis, this issue is clearly current, not only in relation to financial or payment discipline, but also otherwise. And this protection of creditors is guaranteed in a way that is proportionate. According to the assessment of the Constitutional Court, it is proportionate and in accordance with the Constitution. This issue is governed by Article 442 of our insolvency law, which establishes the solidarity of the shareholders with respect to the debts they have incurred in relation to the legal person in which they have been. But it's not exactly an automatic responsibility. That's what I'd like to stress. The law has established a criterion that they are responsible only if they have had the opportunity to influence an economic society, to manage it and to operate it in such a way as to ensure that this company, which has now been erased, would not have entered into a state of insolvency or insolvency. This criterion is therefore the one that protects all these individuals, on whose behalf and for whom you seek the so-called elimination of the injustices that they are supposed to have in connection with the 1999 law. Thus, it is not just some tax paid to the State, but only those members who have at least 25% of the voting rights. So it is a procedure initiated on the basis of the irresponsible conduct of the shareholders who were active and who could pursue their interests that affected business decisions. But if they could not do so, then of course they can prove it and in such a case they are also free of any liability and do not bear the burden of the fact that society has been erased.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u263	It's not true that we don't have this arrangement anymore. This arrangement is more or less following the 2006 amendment of the Financial Transactions Act B and after the Constitutional Court has assessed that this amendment is not constitutional, it has passed the Financial Transactions Act and insolvency proceedings. The criteria are somehow different, but still remain in force in this country that the shareholders are responsible for the obligations of their companies. It is true that an instrument of active society has been introduced today, but it does not say anything about the content of responsibility or irresponsibility. The only instrument, the only real instrument for determining actual liability, the guilt of the shareholders who dealt with the company's assets by damaging the creditors, is the transparency of the legal personality under Article 8 of the Company Act. It is interesting that Slovenia remains virtually the only one in the European and wider areas, which has the issue of guaranteeing the company's obligations as we have them regulated, thus negating this fundamental principle of corporate law. To avoid misunderstandings, it is not a matter of protecting anyone, but it is a matter of striving for such a legal system that will enable us to persecute the guilty and burden those who are not responsible. And that's why it goes down in this case. A prominent Austrian lawyer, Franz Serajnik, wrote in the last issue of Legal Practice that the Slovenian regime of the guarantee of the shareholders is interfering with the system of corporate law, as it introduces the guarantee of a member as a principle and not as an exception. In this respect, however, I am interested: Is the Ministry of Justice willing to seek solutions that are constitutionally sustainable and that at the same time lead to the burden, in my opinion, of falsely convicted associates, not only in solutions for the future but also in the search for a just solution to the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Member, of course, I am aware of the different views, including some lawyers, of this institution, which is specific to as much as Slovenia's specific transition to the market economy and the situation in which it has been and which I have described a little earlier. And when you just quoted the last legal practice, let me quote it. In the introduction to this legal practice, the legal expert Dr. Pirnat reminds us of the duty to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And disrespect for these decisions is referred to as "the sublime destruction of the rule of law". And I have already explained in the first part of the answer that this is certainly difficult, including the legal question being judged by the Constitutional Court, has been weighed in terms of compliance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has given clear guidance to the legislator as to how it must regulate this area in order to be constitutionally consistent. So that the burden of liability will be proportionally passed on to those who receive it. That's what the legislator did. If any procedure shows that there is still a question left unsettled, unsettled in a way that might be questionable from the point of view of the Constitution, then the Ministry of Justice will certainly intervene in such an arrangement, but for now we do not see at the Ministry this case of non-compliance with the constitution of this institution. We also do not see, after consulting with distinguished experts in the field of corporate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr Alexander Zorn will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will ask you a question about the subject that has been of so much concern to you when you were a member of the previous term and which makes you so many problems now that you are a minister, it is a film, its funding, the Film Fund and its implementation. We were able to see in the media that the implementation of the 2010 film project selection mainly depends on the government's decision to approve the amendment of the annual film fund business and financial plan adopted by the Film Fund Supervisory Board at its meeting on 2 November 2010. The government is expected to increase the amount of funding for co-financing of film or audiovisual projects from a million and 300 thousand euros. However, the change should be necessary as the current film programme is expected to be in a rather unfavourable situation in view of the past years, as only about 15% of the funds remain available for the 2010 programme. At its 110th meeting, on 2 December 2010, the Government adopted amendments to the 2010 Film Fund's business and financial plan and allocated an additional million and a half euros in funds. In view of this decision, it is intended to be a reality on the invitation to tender for the selected eight feature films and short films. I've got all the addresses carefully written down. I'm not gonna read them to you. I'm asking you this: How is only 15% of the funds left to the Film Fund for 2010? How will funds be distributed among selected films if there are so many remaining, yet there is little funding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, let me say that I am pleased that the first constitutional meeting of the world will take place tomorrow, a new body that will manage and deal with the Slovenian film within the SFC – Slovenian Film Centre in the future, in accordance with the decision taken by the National Assembly. I am pleased that it took quite some time for us to tell the Court of Auditors in some way that we cannot, because it suggested to us, we cannot take the film uniquely in Europe on our shoulders and back within the Ministry of Culture, as it was in 1990, but must live alone and independently, as it does everywhere in the world. That's why we set up an agency. You yourself have confirmed this body in the National Assembly. As I say, on January 19th, the Agency became "legal-blooded", tomorrow it has the first supervisory council, and the authorities will also start thinking about the 2011 programme, where the total amount of €724 million is 877, as far as the film programme is concerned, and €250,000 for the digitisation of cinematographers. How was the allocation of funds for 2010 asked. In doing so, you should be reminded of one, certainly familiar dynamics, and as a playwright or former employee of Vib film, a clear process in film projects that do not last one year, especially if it comes to feature films, but are usually distributed over a longer period of time. also the ZSFC, this is called the Slovenian Film Centre Act, talks about at least two years of budget coverage to make the film, because it cannot be made overnight or in one year, too short a deadline for this. In 2010, we are already faced with the resources that have burdened us. To a very small extent, they have come together since 2008, and since 2009, projects have become more time-consuming, and this has led to a call for spending, to a total of EUR 636 000 759 000, because already in 2009 the project funds have been seized, because people have had to know what they will do and also implement this programme, but this does not mean that there has been any reduction in the use of resources for wider film production, but only that it has been distributed over different years. This is how I expect five feature films to be completed in 2011 from previous years and probably from the seven planned last year, and certainly also a short one, and, of course, a medium-sized one, but also more, depending on the dynamics of the authors. We do not yet have the reports for the work of the Slovenian Film Fund, because we are facing reports at the Ministry and they come in February, while we were familiar with the plan at the government last year. Let me point out that it is not just these means that within the Slovenian film production, a significant share of the funds also comes from audiovisual production, a film production that reaches up to around EUR 311 000 in the tender, that is to say, a quota of funds takes place some 30 projects that have not been implemented in the past because they have not taken these quotas for AV production seriously. As you recall, in 2009 we first invested in this facility within the legal boundaries. Because the law says how much money has to be contributed to audiovisual productions, that is to say, films that are not classic full-time, but range into the wider production of AV spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you. You want a refill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, the minister that the realization can take place after two years, but even more, or with the 15% left behind, you will really finish all the films and what you've got. Will that be enough? Because that's what I asked you and you didn't answer me. And please: How can these funds be distributed so that this will be done? When will the 2011 call for funding be published? And despite the fact that the films last a long time, however, only two feature films have been made so far — how is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u273	The 2011 call, which I say has a total of EUR 724 000 877, plus EUR 250 000 for the digitisation of cinematographers. By counting down already planned films here in 2010 as well as overloades to this account. In short, do you understand that the quota is not smaller, but in 2010, if you want to make a multi-annual production, you also have to overload next year. This is what the Film Fund wanted to do in 2010 and cut down already in 2011, realizing that the tendering processes themselves can be delayed. As I said, tomorrow is the first time the world meets, followed by the preparation and coordination of documents that mean the nature of the work. The law, we know that it sets a certain transitional period and by also adopting the terms of funding of the new institution, the agencies, I think they will not be significantly different from those of the Slovenian film malt, then the tender may run out. However, other films continue to take place before the meltdown. After all, Viba has already reported the timing of processes that it provides as a public institution, which in a significant sense helps to produce a national film programme. It could be 11 movies, they could be finished. I don't know the processes themselves, as I say, they are autonomous, we don't interfere with their work if we want to, we can, why not, but not because their autonomy is and we only coordinate the correctness of their financial employment. That is why sometimes, when coordinating documents that go to the Government, we are very difficult and very indiscreet because we believe that transparent business, which we recognize, has not been exactly the same in recent years. This was borne out by the Court of Auditors with all the weight and claims that resulted in the remedial measures I carried out for two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr Darko Menich will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u275	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, distinguished minister, fellow Members, good evening! Madam Minister, during the previous term of office, Dr Gregor Virant, former Minister of Public Administration, introduced the so-called Saturday work on administrative units with the amendment of the sub-legislative acts. It was a pretty big visit. Amendment to the Regulation on administrative operations published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 101/210, of 13. 12. 2010 and entered into force the next day after publication, i.e. 14. 12. 2010 has brought a number of changes that will affect the availability of administrative services, namely the suspension of Saturday work in administrative units, the suspension of the regular monthly determination of customer satisfaction, and a change in the way in which the parties are satisfied. I also noticed that business hours and official hours had changed at local offices in administrative units. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: How do you justify such changes in business time at local offices in administrative units, as well as changes in the suspension of Saturday work in administrative units, the suspension of the regular monthly determination of customer satisfaction and changes in the way customers are identified? How will this affect access to administrative services? How do you expect this to be reflected in the context of ensuring customer satisfaction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Commissioner, I have answered the same question to your fellow Member, Mr Gorenak, among the previous Members' questions, so I do not want to burden you again with the numbers, but I can answer your question why I dared to cut into the superstandard that was established in the previous term. You will probably agree that because of the public finances that our country has been in since 2008. Today I will provide you with data on the extent of the savings, and I guarantee the following: the accessibility of citizens to administrative services will not be reduced, we have not changed the official hours. I would like to explain to you below that we had to save in spite of everything. These quality barometers, the annual implementation of customer satisfaction surveys, as well as the opinions of the leaders, have shown that people are so satisfied that they no longer reflect the reality. We have kept this, surveys, for two years, but at the annual level, we have saved 350 000 euros with all these measures, which is not enough resources, with very serious analyses of whether this is what can reduce costs, not to the detriment of all that you have estimated that could happen. The number of public officials – I am talking about total savings in administrative units – fell by 92 civil servants from December 2008 to December 2010, from 2 000 759 to 2 000 667 by over 3.3%. The two-year payouts fell despite the pay reform, although of course the agreements on its unfinished realization were, of course, 2.6 million euros, i.e. by 4% in two years. We have reduced material costs in administrative units by 13% or 1.5 million euros in 2010 with close cooperation with the chiefs, and the volume of administrative services has remained the same in all these years. Therefore, the efficiency of public servants also had to be increased towards a more rational spending of public funds on material costs. That was very preposterous. Why we cancelled Saturday's work – because the number of customers has halved by 55% between 2007 and 2010. The customer structure – this was carefully recorded, we carefully analysed everything in 2009 and in 2010 – was such that the administrative units were visited mainly by pensioners, whom we cannot claim to have had no time in a week. Local jurisdiction was also abolished, which means that a student, whoever is in any of the places where he is, can perform administrative services. Other parts of the state administration do not work on Saturdays, nor do public institutions, nor does anyone, nor does the bank. In short, administrative units have been less and less visited. There is something else that needs to be highlighted. With this regulation, which we have amended, we have given the chiefs of administrative units a tool to decide, if necessary, whether or not to replace personal documents, on Saturday and to pay the people for this work normally. Not that people go there, even though there are no visits. The visits were indeed too modest to cover the material costs incurred in this work. So every year there were over 217 thousand costs per administrative unit for one Saturday of the month, of course on a truly modest visit. Well, the quality barometer meant oversatisfaction. At the annual level, it cost 25,000 euros, but in our survey of customer satisfaction, it is not cancelled, but is now implemented for two years because it cost almost 40,000 euros at the annual level when it was implemented [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you very much for your answer. I would just like to say about the congregation of Šostjanj, because the administrative unit has been operating for ten years and we have just recently received a notice that it will work only two days a week. This is us, our natives have hurt, something they resent, but we are also acceptable to such an explanation. I have also spoken with the Commissioner, who said that the staff and financial problems have also occurred, and I also asked him if it would ever be possible to increase the number of official hours, i.e. in the future the construction of block six is planned, will come to the valley or to our Šostanja from five hundred to thousands of Jews and will probably need some services. Perhaps then we could help with the number of extra hours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u280	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you very much for the opportunity to have me answer you in this work. It's probably not the administrative unit of Šostjanj, it's the local office of the administrative unit of Šostjanj. In fact, neither the working hours nor the official hours of the administrative units have changed. However, this arrangement is now for Saturday, where the chiefs are left to activate the administrative unit or work on Saturdays and other times, they can also extend their working hours. That, I think, is a tool that must be left to the leaders. The official hours in the local offices have already been fully under the authority of the Chief of Administration before the change. Indisputably, local offices are even in areas where people live away from the centres, but extremely important, to a wide range of areas, this is the only contact between citizens and the country at the primary level. For this reason, in the process of saving, even personally several times in meetings with the chiefs of administrative units, we have argued that local offices do not, of course, close themselves to try to negotiate with local communities according to the needs of the population, given the deprivligilisation, the distance from urban centres to keep these offices going. It is true, however, that if the chiefs record business processes and the number of cases carried out by an individual official at the local office so little administrative matters that an official comes and no one visits all day, they are likely to decide to concentrate the official hours at the local offices on two days a week when this official comes to the local office, otherwise he works in an administrative unit where, as you have seen, he is actually less employed due to limited resources. However, I am sure that, until now, this has also been shown to me by the practice that where the chiefs do not reach agreement with the locals, with the mayors, I have never, when consensus has not been reached, given a positive opinion on the abolition of the local office. Because here I want our citizens to be at least about the same access to these public services. But they are rationalised by the chiefs of public finance, and I am sure that you will be able to agree on the best possible action for your citizens in Scotland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u283	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The rise of various forms of crime has been marked in Slovenia recently. I am convinced that both the police and the judicial authorities are doing everything in their power to prosecute and sanction such acts. In this regard to you, Mr Justice Minister, I am referring to the following question: We have heard some answers from both your side and the Minister of the Interior today, I do not think it is appropriate to ask this question several times: Why is it so rare in Slovenia to confiscate or freeze property to people who, in one way or another, get property wrongly, or on the basis of fraud of a country, banks, or workers, or even to avoid paying subcontractors and, of course, not contributions, thus putting other people into trouble and enriching their assets? Is there a problem in the functioning of institutions such as the State Prosecutor's Office, the police and the courts, or in the normative framework that these institutions must respect? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Member of Parliament, it is likely that the answer to your question lies in the fact that there are only situations in society that have exacerbated inequalities very much, and these inequalities show that, on the one hand, we have sufficient awareness on the one hand of people who deserve more than they have, on the other hand, that we have people who have more than they deserve, that these inequalities have in fact created a sufficient awareness of everyone, including state institutions, that it is necessary to apply consistently the measures aimed at illegal property, in particular those that are in any way linked to the criminal offence, and then also withdraw if it is in the criminal judgment. That would be my principled answer. On the other hand, all State authorities involved in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings must, on an official basis, determine whether there is any material benefit that is in any way linked to the crime and, of course, take the property benefit away, because it is in accordance with the principle that no one shall retain the benefit arising from the crime. And the general expectation, which is justified, is that the competent state authorities, such as the police, the National Investigation Office, the prosecutions, the courts, in these proceedings they are conducting, will apply these measures to a greater extent than may have happened in the past, which, inter alia, prevent unjustifiable wealth. So the situation is not yet satisfactory. It is true, however, that it improves, at least if I decide on the latest decisions, both the prosecutions and the courts, in some cases also rebuttal cases where multimillion-dollar seizures have already taken place and, later, is likely to be the basis for this, including the confiscation of property. The Ministry of Justice has been running an intensive campaign in this regard for some time now, taking a series of measures to ensure that existing legislation is applied consistently. In this regard, we have, inter alia, amended the regulation on the cooperation of the prosecution, the police and other state authorities, and the law on criminal proceedings, precisely to give prosecutors stronger powers in directing the competent authorities, even when it comes to this issue. Of course, that's not enough. And the next step that the National Assembly can expect in a short time will be the one that the Government has already decided to provide with an additional option by amending the legislation, the so-called extended confiscation of property on the principle of reverse proof burden. The Ministry of Justice, as its absolute political priority, has the preparation of a criminal code and a law on criminal procedure and a law on the State Prosecutor's Office. All these three laws will be cohesive, i.e. they must be coherent, ensure this so-called extended confiscation, which means nothing more than taking away all assets of illegal origin, but it is not necessarily related to the beneficiaries of the crime. However, it is linked to the fact that the offence was committed. This, of course, requires a certain regulatory change, which is also sensitive, particularly because it interferes with the constitutional right of people to private property. It is therefore right that we all take some time to plan and adopt these provisions together. As is known, the Government's normative programme and the National Assembly's plan provide for this. The Ministry of Justice is also concerned that institutions with these powers will be trained. That's what we think is essential. We are not helped by such good laws if those who use them do not have sufficient knowledge have insufficient experience if the practice of their decision-making is not harmonised. This makes it extremely important for us to make this possible through specialization. This will allow us to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is just before the Government deals with it, and this will also allow us to amend the Law on Courts, which we are preparing, which will also be dealt with by the Government in February. This specialisation then also provides for a substantial wider application of these mechanisms that we already have and those that we hope to get in the shortest possible time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. As you said, in fact, some assets have been confiscated in our country as well, but in general this has not been presented as strongly in the public eye as in the cases of neighbouring Croatia. That's why I'm asking: How come the public doesn't know about these things anymore? I would also like to receive an answer to the question: When can we expect a change of legislation in this area so that the state will not have to prove how someone has come to the property or that the owner will have to prove it himself?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u289	I think that the reason why, in fact, the general public has known relatively little for a long time, is that Slovenia has a pretty good legislative framework for seizing, even for confiscating the property, which is exactly what I was talking about in the first part. In a relatively small number of cases, when this seizure and seizure actually occurred. On the other hand, this may also be related to a somewhat unprofessional presentation of cases from abroad, such as the former Croatian Prime Minister, who is known to have seized a certain asset, has been shown to be an example of a good practice based on a law that Slovenia does not have. Of course that's not true. For in Croatia this property was seized by Mr Sanader under a practically identical provision, as Slovenia has in the Penal Code and under the procedure that Slovenia has in the Criminal Procedure Act. Hence, there is no mention of the valuable differences between the arrangements in both countries. By the way, Croatia only adopted this law at the end of last year, Slovenia has had it for a substantial period of time. The answer to this question is therefore mainly related to the frequency of the use of these mechanisms by the judiciary authorities, with the need to be honest and to say that the police and the National Investigation Office have been significantly more active in this regard than the prosecution, which has tabled significantly fewer proposals and then, of course, there is still a certain selection in the courts. But with regard to the timeline, this one is known, it's certain, the government has accepted it. The laws that will allow for the widespread confiscation of property with the reverse burden of proof will be in the Government in February.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Čadež, he wants to ask the Minister of Transport a question, although he is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u291	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Nice greetings for me, Mr. Secretary, colleagues! Transport links between Gorenjska and Primorsko are in very poor condition. But I'm thinking mainly about those connections from the bishoply area, either across the valley of Poland or down the Sevska valley. Before continuing, however, I would also like to commend the developments in the project of the bishop's and Gornjeva Oblasts, since they are both on this route. I'd like to know what the preparatory phase is for each route. First, the Zali Log-Tax Road, which was taken literally by the floods in 2007. Last May, the President of the Government promised to be built in one year. I know the project files are ready. But I want to know when the construction is about to begin. Second, the Trebia-Sovodenj road, the worst part of the link to the Church and forward to Tolmin. The municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane gave the project identification at the Ministry of Transport last August. Unfortunately, last year's rebalancing took the necessary resources to rehabilitate the walls, but this year's work will continue. I would like to know when it will join the entire reconstruction of the 5km section of Trebia-Sovodenj. Question three. The Hotavlje-Cerkno connection, which falls under the fourth development axis, is now foreseen past Hotavlje and along the Kopačnica valley with the tunnel to the church side. On this route, there are three tunnels totalling 5,000,700 meters and two viaducts, both 220 meters. The average price for the built-in mile of this section to Cerkne is a good EUR 11 million, which is almost the same as the km of built highway in Slovenia. We find it rather expensive. I want to know: Is such a project realistic in view of the opening of a new route rather than improving the existing one across the watercourse and, above all, is it economically justified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Can you tell us more, do you want an oral or written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u293	Of course I want an oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u294	Oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much. Mag. Franz Znidarsic will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and colleagues! Paying non-discipline has undoubtedly gone beyond all the frameworks of tolerance despite the financial and economic crisis. In the country, on the one hand, we have countless cases of non-payment of services or supplies, cases of paid or unsupplied goods, which are said to be non-payments, on the other hand a multitude of creditors who, on the basis of credible documents and evidence, cannot exercise their credit rights within contractual terms or within a reasonable period following their expiry. It is true that creditors can sue the debtor, but the way is long because of the overload of the courts, the endless possibility of delaying judicial proceedings, even the enforcement problem is further complicated. The consequences of these situations are severe problems for workers who are left without a decent salary, often without social security contributions, and for businesses without income – I mean creditors, employment – and therefore they are failing. A particular problem is the chain of operators and subcontractors where the non-payment of subcontractors has reached an extent that threatens the destruction of many smaller companies. I am convinced that the non-payment of services or supplies is fraud or a place only after the agreed payment deadlines for the settlement of debts have expired. A special flower in our legal order is the fact that, in the face of countless abuses of the situation and illegal use of tax money, it is necessary to prove fraud. Because of this state of affairs, I'm asking: Do you believe that the mechanisms of the judicial system and the legal security of creditors are sufficient and, if so, why do they not work? Are you considering how to reduce procedures and remove obstacles to enforcement? Would it not indicate, in the context of criminal offences, the abuse of the situation or the illegal use of taxpayers' money to eliminate proof of intent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u296	Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Dear Member, no system is so good that it cannot be improved. Neither is ours. And that's what the government does all the time. I'll go in line, first of all, with respect to execution. Implementation is, in fact, a very problematic means of how the creditor makes payment of its claim, especially because usually enforcement means the end of a business relationship. Usually, not always. Therefore, creditors are, to a certain extent, held back from even pursuing the enforcement procedure, especially when it comes to smaller creditors in relation to large systems, because in this way they can in some way close doors to future contractual relations. This is a problem that is known and probably will not be fully resolved by any law. However, as is known, on this issue, the Government has recently adopted a specific regulatory plan and has already drafted a change in the law that will also affect this area, in particular with regard to compulsory multilateral coverage, by reducing or limiting contractual deadlines also in private business relations, which is certainly the extreme limit to which the State can still go when it intervenes in private business relations. It will also adopt a series of amendments relating to public procurement, in particular with regard to the duty of those competing for public contracts to have settled all falling liabilities to subcontractors. We also impose harsh sanctions on those who violate this rule, not just monetary sanctions. The ban on bidding for public procurement will be a new sanction, which will be confirmed, inter alia, by the new law or amendment of the Offences Act, which you will deal with tomorrow. In short, the Government is constantly trying to mitigate to the greatest extent possible some of the consequences connected to the economic crisis and, on the other hand, financial non-discipline as such. What about execution as such? The implementation was included in the Slovenian exit strategy and one of the measures was the amendment to the Law on Enforcement. This measure was relatively quickly adopted, processed and endorsed in the National Assembly, I think, even without a vote against. Therefore, the amendment of the Law on Enforcement has been in force for several months and gives first results. We cannot talk about some reliable impact analysis, because the time since this law is still too short for this, but the first signals are very positive. We have expanded the possibility of direct execution on the basis of an executive address based on a court decision on money. We've expanded the possibility of direct execution on the basis of a currency. According to my assessment, this is the biggest gain for our economy, because now that you are already making a deal and sending out a bill, it is ensured that, on the basis of this problem in the execution of this business, with regard to payments, you can achieve direct execution on the basis of this currency. The debtors' objections are no longer held here by the creditor's payment. We then intervened here in the judicial proceedings themselves, the enforcement proceedings. We have set an extremely sharp deadline of three months in which the court must carry out the main hearing, if the debtor objects, on the basis of a authentic instrument, i.e. where the computer actually issues an enforcement decision within 24 to 48 hours, this part of the procedure is extremely fast. In this regard, Slovenia has received a special recognition from the Council of Europe and the European Commission and has been presented as an example to the other Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe. This happened two months ago. In short, we have here, in this area, a series of mechanisms that work and are also more widely recognised as successful mechanisms. Of course, enforcement cannot be a cure for all diseases, especially when the debtor has no assets. And that is also why caution should be exercised in assessing what is a crime and what is not, in particular what has been done, with the knowledge that you have exercised some authority contrary to the purpose and what has happened as a result of the market situation. As a result, there can be no abuse without awareness and a desire to act in such a way as to achieve the objective in an unlawful manner, which means that slander must remain a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I am mainly satisfied with the answers, but they show that the country is trying to improve the situation in this area. I have cited the problem of enforcement because I have a case of a two-year enforcement procedure still pending due to countless objections and complaints, but also partly because of a court which has reacted to individual articles in this procedure. On the other hand, I mentioned the intent or intention to commit a crime for a certain purpose, because I know the case of the illegal spending of €105 000 on the payment of employees in the municipal administration who had no right to be employed there because the mayor hired them on his own, past the adopted personnel plan, and therefore the budget ran out of funds. He illegally reassigned them from items he shouldn't have. And, of course, I used them. He committed a crime, so he committed, in my opinion, a crime of abuse of the position. The prosecution's answer is simple: it is not possible to determine the intent, so the crime does not exist, suspicion is dismissed and the mayor can work cheerfully equally further. I think it's a problem, because the illegal conduct of someone should in itself be a crime in one way or another. And I don't understand how the prosecution can then wash their hands and those who have seen so much illegality go to a private lawsuit as if we were paid to prosecute those who break the law, not the prosecution who is paid for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u300	Minister Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u301	With regard to the first question, the length of the specific enforcement procedure, I can only give one piece of advice. It should affect me, or the President of the Court, where this long procedure has taken place, or the President of a directly higher court, and it will be possible to determine with careful analysis where the reasons have been, whether this has indeed happened, who is responsible, and even if the procedure may not be completed, what can be done to speed up, we have appropriate mechanisms in different laws. On the second issue, I find it difficult to judge, but the question is also, if I may judge, because this is the jurisdiction, as you have rightly determined, the State Prosecutor's Office, which is free on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law, decides whether to accept an action and process it or reject it and, in this case, gives potential victims the opportunity to take over the prosecution themselves. However, it is also not possible, by means of legal means, even when it comes to matters of the State Prosecutor's Office, which means matters which are within the competence of the Heads of State Prosecutor's Office, to verify that in such cases everything was in accordance with the law. This is the only advice that can, in fact, be given as a minister in relation to these two cases by the ladies in question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič wants to ask a question to the absent Minister of Transport. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. The venerable are still present! It has been a month since the entry into force of the amendment to the Rail Traffic Act. The law provides for certain reorganisations of the Railway Investment Directorate. So far, virtually nothing has happened on this subject. There are still still more options in the game to organise a new investment company based in Maribor. The case is written very loosely in the law, and the activity of this new company is written very vaguely because unfortunately the additions of the Slovenian People's Party's Group have not been adopted. The new company is intended to lead only new constructions and upgrades and renovations are expected to fall under the Ministry of Transport, which, with the help of a public contract, would look for contractors for individual projects. This call could also include Slovenian Railways, which can be very controversial, as Slovenian Railways play several roles simultaneously – as documentary auditors, as supervisors in the implementation of the project, sometimes as contractors of certain works – which is not legal and permissible. In particular, funding for these projects is questionable, as European funds are also often involved. In such a case, it is entirely possible for the Commission of the European Union to assess that the financing of Slovenian railways by European means is under cover. It is irrational, uneconomical and pointless to share investments in several parts, new constructions, upgrades and renovations. It would make sense, it is also supported by the Ministry of Finance, that all these matters are managed by a newly established company, which, of course, must have an appropriately qualified staff to do so. At the same time, the situation of workers and their rights are particularly uncertain. That's why I'm asking you: When and how will the transformation take place and a new company be established? What will be the activity of this company? How will the transition of workers and the rights of all employees be ensured? Thank you for the oral response I would like from the minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you, Mr. Fish. The answer will be oral at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Ivan Grill will also ask the absent Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u305	Thank you so much for saying that again. I would like to ask you, too, in the first place, if I could get an answer to the next question at the next meeting. My question has to do with vignettes and control of this system. It turned out that the decision in the previous mandate to introduce the vignette system in Slovenia was reasonable and reasonable. Safety on highways or on parallel roads has increased. No congestion or congestion is significantly reduced during vacations. Last but not least, the financial situation shows that this way, in the budget or in Darsa Treasury, a lot of funds are being raised, and yet we can most likely argue that these funds would be collected substantially more if control over the use of vineyards were better organised. In particular, I am thinking that more than once on motorways there may be foreigners who do not have vignettes, and all the control that we can see is based mainly on being monitored by these toll inspectors of Dars at such points where, as a rule, the users of motorways can be monitored primarily by Slovenian citizens and citizens. But when we're driving on highways, we can see that there are a lot of foreigners, I believe that some are reluctant, and a lot of them are also likely to be at risk and not to buy those vineyards. Therefore, I firmly believe that if this control were to be carried out more systematically, a substantial number of funds could, of course, be collected on this account. In this regard, I would like to know if I can get an answer to this question: How many toll radars were detected or sanctioned in 2009 and, of course, in 2010 by those who did not have vignettes? How much money has been raised? First of all, I want to know: Is there any indication of how many foreign drivers were involved and how many domestic drivers? Then I also want to know: Is any systematic arrangement planned to increase this control? And after all: Is there any analysis that, on the basis of all of these previously identified non-users, has determined what the assessment is, however, that a vehicle, a car without fault, cannot be detected or sanctioned in order to determine what is the potential damage to poor toll control? Because it is right that this control is more systematically carried out here by foreigners in particular, so that more resources are collected from them, not just by Slovenian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Your reply will be delivered orally at the next meeting. Mr Milenko Ziherl has announced that he expects a written answer to his question. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the absent Minister for Labour and the Minister for Justice. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u307	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State! For two years now, we have been warning, analysing, discussing and discussing measures to address the problem of non-payment of wages and social security contributions. I ask both ministers: What else do they intend to do, in the context of their departments, to do in addition to the already well-known measures to combat this phenomenon, which is undoubtedly to the detriment of workers, the budget, perhaps in favour of the labour structure? Minister Svetlik announced that the non-payment or prohibition of social security deposits, contributions, would be regulated in the new law on pension and disability insurance. However, as we know, the final adoption of the law is moving away, perhaps far away from it. Does the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs plan to take certain additional measures during this transitional period to ensure that workers are insured? And a question for Mr. Zalar. We have already received an explanation months ago that, on the basis of expert consultations, legal experts and prosecutors have jointly identified these crimes as crimes and that they are prosecuted by official duty. As with my colleague Žnidaršič, I ask myself: Is proof of intent still a procedural obstacle to the initiation of prosecution for all those who do not pay wages and contributions? Was it even introduced in the scratch, I will limit it a little bit over the last six months, depending on what information the Minister has prepared, or was criminal proceedings initiated at the initiative of the Public Prosecutor at all?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u308	Mr. Minister Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I will answer my part of your question. As you've rightly found, I've explained many times, and I'll say it again. Failure to pay social security contributions is a criminal offence in violation of the fundamental rights of workers under Article 196 of the Penal Code and may also violate social security rights under Article 202 of the Penal Code. More important than the fact that the Ministry thinks this is a criminal offence, it is also the State's view that this is a criminal offence. There's no doubt about that. The State Prosecutor’s Office, at first in one case, felt otherwise, but later on to our intervention it reexamined its position, considered it and found that it was a criminal offence and therefore did not prevent it from being prosecuted. Of course, the circumstances of a particular case depend on how the scheme is handled. The Prosecutor's Office has already pointed out that the obstacle to this scheme could be in the field of legislation when allowing the payment of these contributions to be deferred, but it is not possible, of course, to state in general, that these crimes cannot be prosecuted. And if I now look at the data provided by the State Prosecutor's Office today relating to the period from 1 June to 31 December last year, then these data confirm what I just said was a crime and that these crimes are also being processed. The prosecution has reported that during this period of seven months, 53 cases have been pending in the investigation phase and 23 cases have already been filed with the prosecution. The Prosecutor's Office has also indicated that, in the series of consultations they held, not only within the Prosecutor's Office but also with external experts, it has come to the conclusion that it is reasonable, in selected cases, in so-called sample cases, to propose to the courts a priority hearing in order to reach a court as soon as possible, a judicial decision on what could, of course, have an important impact on the continuation of these proceedings and also on the outcome of these proceedings. So, of course, it is now at the court's or the court's motion, because these proceedings are being brought before different courts, that they also judge these cases and I hope that we will soon be able to report on the first final decisions of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Magajna, supplement the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u311	I wonder if there is still a discussion in the professional circles about the legal category of the scheme. He's probably on his way. This is a study case that was probably also made up of some kind of doctoral degree. Really, at least for laymen, it's a little strange. I'm guessing no employer is working for some bad reason to just make a profit, I don't know. He's probably in trouble, not with the intention of tricking a worker, but he's probably well aware that he didn't pay. And what slander means in this ethical sense, we can discuss, but it seems to me that the very legal reason, to prove slander, seems very questionable from the point of view of procedural proceedings, and it seems to me that if an act is a crime and is committed in the realization that the state should act in favour of a weaker party here, that is, the one who is injured, only to act. I want to know: What is going to happen or is still going to happen around the legal category of the scheme? Is it possible that it will be treated differently than it is now?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u312	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u313	As I explained in the first part of the reply, there is no problem that the existence of elements of this crime or of these two crimes must be fabricated. The problem is whether the prosecution is able to prove this intention at a time when the employer has made a decision, for example, to the tax authority on the postponement of the payment of contributions for a certain period of time, where the decision has been carried out in accordance with the applicable, specific legislation, such as pension law. So that's the problem with intent. Not that the Penal Code makes it a prerequisite for such a crime. There's nothing wrong with it being a crime if someone wanted to do it. However, the problem may have arisen in individual cases where the sectoral legislation has allowed the employer to enforce this authorisation and has justified it by bridging the insolvency period, avoiding insolvency, avoiding threatening bankruptcy, outstanding obligations. This is, of course, a matter of every specific case that the prosecution will now have to judge. It will, of course, be much easier for the state to carry out exactly what it has announced and about which Minister Svetlik is likely to be able to tell you more about, and this is to eliminate this possibility of delaying the payment of contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-31-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We have concluded by asking the questions sent. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given and I am adjourning today's 24th meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you very much.
