ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Alenka Jeraj, Mag. Stefan Tisel, Joško Godec, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, and also me from 12 o'clock on. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the laws on economic societies, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to the proposal for a law, the group of 27 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Minister of Cooperation, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! For the second time, we are already dealing with this issue mainly because we were unsuccessful at the first initiative and, of course, we were not listening. What is it, exactly? This is a novelty of the company law and the aim is to prevent the legal form of the relationship between the shareholders or between a member and a society which is hidden from the public and which is not entered in the register of justice. Therefore, the possibility of silent companies, silent partners and hidden relationships within a society that, in practice, has only negative consequences in Slovenia and in fact has no positive consequences. In the Law on Economic Companies, the existence of silent companies has been stolen or actually taken from German legislation of the German approach before the fundamental change of economic law in the previous mandate and we do not have any judicial practice in Slovenia relating to the operation of silent societies and relations between the parties, even though we have legally regulated these relations in law. Of course, there have recently been cases of silent society being used to achieve some of the objectives of individuals, but not in the context of the objectives of companies and other members of society. It was evident that the long-standing President of the Taluma administration, the State Talum, Mr Danilo Toplek was also a silent associate of the silent partner of the Ptuj Construction Company, which operated with Talum. We have a very interesting case that this gentleman, who is also an important and visible member of the Social Democrats, the ruling party, was on the one hand on the board of the company and was at the same time a silent associate of another company operating with this state society. When the public found out about this, the Taluma authorities also dealt with these cases and, as a rule, found nothing controversial. But there is still a shadow of doubt in the direction of the possibility of damage to state property and specifically of these companies. In short, we have such a deviant case. The Public Finance Supervisory Commission has dealt with this case and has also sought information from the Government as to how many such cases there are and how many Heads of Administration or Supervisory Authorities in state-owned companies are at the same time silent associates of companies both at home and abroad. We expected that, following the example of previous activities, the Government, when restricting wages and awards to directors and members of corporate supervision, would also advocate the disclosure of these data. To this day, the government has not answered this question, so we do not know where many members of state-owned companies and supervisory boards are participating as silent partners. We believe that this is very bad for some transparent and economic behaviour of state-owned companies in this country. We therefore propose that the possibility of silent companies be abolished. However, in order to prevent any informally quiet society, we propose that Article 6 of this amendment should state that any relationship, any legal transactions between the members and society that exist must be entered and entered into the register and must be publicly disclosed. We are convinced that such an arrangement would bring much more benefits than damage, and in particular it would prevent abuses and possible damage to state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation of the opinion. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Darji Radic, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, it should be pointed out that the proposed proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies, which was also tabled by a group of Members, is substantively identical to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies, which was also tabled by a group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, for which the State Assembly, at its 34th extraordinary meeting, had already adopted a decision on 2 December 2010 that it was not appropriate to continue its consideration and that the legislative procedure had been suspended. At the time of the consideration of the proposed law, we also promised to propose amendments to the Law on Economic Companies at the Ministry of Economy, as the Ministry of the Economy, and then to the Government, which would also address the problem of silent partners, which certainly exists in Slovenia and requires better regulation than we have before. Back then, we stressed that simply deleting the entire chapter on silent companies in the Law on Economic Companies would not solve the problem, but rather suggest solutions that would allow what Mr Vizjak said in essence to reveal silent ownership in certain cases. At the request of the Ministry of Economy on 24 February, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also approved the proposal for a company law governing this conflict of interest, which provides that the manager, including the procurator and the executive director, may deal with another company in which it has itself or also its family members or all of the total share of more than 10 % of the basic capital, or if it is a silent participant alone and its family members, or if, on any other legal basis, it is possible to participate in the company's profits, only if the supervisory board agrees. So it has to be revealed to the supervisory board. If the manager does not gain such consent, all legal transactions are null and void. Of course, there is an exception here if this share is less than a tenth of the capital base, in which case it does not have to get the supervisory board's consent, but it has to inform the supervisory board that it is silent or that it has certain shares in companies. In addition, on 17 February, the Government adopted a decision on recommendations concerning silent companies on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which concerns the Capital Investment Management Agency. By this Decision, the Authority recommended that the Code should include the incompatibilities of the performance of the functions of a member of the management and control body of an economic company with the function of a silent shareholder in another capital company, if these two companies operate together, and that a statement be included between the conditions for the appointment of members of the management and control bodies of those companies, whether or not it is a silent participant in other companies, and where it is in which. In this way, in my opinion, we have regulated or if Parliament adopts this proposal for a company law, I think it has also been published on the websites, together with these recommendations, which specifically regulate the disclosure of silent partners in the event that the State is included in ownership, in order to adequately address this problem that we have faced. In the light of all the above, the Government cannot support the law, so it proposes to the National Assembly that it adopts a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u6	Good morning! Dear President, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act. The Group of Members has drawn up a proposal for a new Law on Economic Companies which eliminates the possibility of silent companies. This proposal seeks to prevent the abuse of silent societies to conceal society and to limit the possible conflict of interest. The silent companies and the silent partners are legally regulated in the Company Act, in the third chapter, which is completely deleted by the proposal. The contract between the institutions of the silent company and the silent shareholders is not entered in the register of the court and therefore the relationship between the shareholder and the silent society is unknown. Nor is a silent participant engaged in legal traffic and is not a holder of the rights and obligations arising from the operation of a silent company, but is informed and codecision, and is indeed hidden from the public. It has been shown that the abuse of the Institute of a Silent Society has led to the concealment of the relationship between the parties in a silent society, thus allowing for a conflict of interests between the silent party. Thus, a silent partner may at the same time be a management or control body in a company which directly or indirectly operates with a silent society. The actual number of such abuses cannot be known, nor can it be known. The fact is, and we must admit this to the applicants that this institution also allows for a conflict of interests between an individual, an associate or a silent associate. The latter means that it is also possible to damage state property in the case of a company owned by the State in part or majority. Of course, all of this is in the event of the abuse of this institute. However, the question is whether simply deleting those provisions of the Law on companies governed by a silent society is a suitable solution to prevent or prevent such abuses and damage to employees, owners and states, or whether such abuses can be prevented by a conflict of interest in a different way. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the institution of a silent society is not placed in our legal order solely to allow for controversial and illegal conduct by leaders. We are also convinced that the abolition of a silent society is not necessary and that, as some experts believe, it will have exactly the opposite effect from the planned ones. The purpose of a silent company is to provide the company with a new asset, without the silent shareholder actively participating in the management of the company as a shareholder. In return, the silent shareholder is involved in the company's profits, of course if the company is operating on profits. If the company does not have a profit, the silent participant is involved in the loss. Thus, this ratio is essentially similar to the loan ratio. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the problems raised by the proponents and support their efforts to resolve the issues that have proved very worrying and serious in some of the cases that have been known and exposed so far. After careful consideration, however, we decided in our Group that we would not support the proposal, which we have already discussed in December of the hair year, this time. The consequences of the abolition of silent companies could lead to the conclusion of different forms of contracts that would lead to similar factual conditions, such as in the case of silent companies, only if this was not properly regulated, which in the final stage means further possibilities of non-transparent and biased operations for the purposes of pursuing personal economic interests. The government has already prepared and forwarded to the National Assembly a new Law on Economic Companies dealing with the issue of conflict of interest regulation with a view to preventing the biased and unbiased decision-making of members of management due to personal economic interest. In the DeSUS Group, we will therefore follow up on this proposal submitted by the Government, and we will support it in some way eventually modified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Minister, a second time, a good day! It's a good thing it sounds like we were good at eight. It's the same story, it's very hard to tell something new. We talked about this law last December. And in fact, there's one truth that's hard to do in one way or another. And this one is that, while it's intended to end the silent society for everyone, I'm going to say good things to our people. But unfortunately, such and similar lumbarries are happening elsewhere and also in other companies, and we are there again. Are we still going to shut down companies? The Slovenian national party has already warned that there is a systemic need, and this I have specifically addressed to the Minister, to resolve such content. It means systemic, by law and by control. Not by paying for controls when the fastest millionaires in history have ever been on overseers in general, but even after their week in the history of the whole world in general, I am talking about controls in Slovenia. Since there was no control, everything was happening, and the result today is the re-examination of the bill of applicants – the SDS Group of Members. In the Slovenian National Party, we say that there is no point in adopting laws, such as those and others, because of individual cases, but we call and warn once again that penalties should be increased for such, and for all the irregularities that concern this law and other laws. Since there are many such irregularities, this is a very mild expression, not even in the Penal Code. The purpose of the law is good. He's trying to stop a lot of people, unfortunately already machined, lumbarity. On the other hand, I am personally in great doubt as to whether this will prevent everything that has happened and is likely to happen and will continue for some time. If we shut down silent societies, such and similar actions will take place in companies. Why am I personally skeptical? Because probably already colleagues and colleagues know this law, I hope that you have at least looked at it and seen that there are so-called atypical silent societies, which are characterised by the fact that workers are silent co-owners and, in addition to being employees of these silent companies, of course, silent co-owners and profiting for a good job, and by a law that would put an end to such workers. This is my personal doubt, the doubt of Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, as we have for the first time, we will decide according to our conscience and judgment. Once again, the entire public, as well as colleagues and colleagues and representatives of ministries, are reminded that this proposal, once again, has been re- tabled, once again a great warning that, not with individual laws, but in general and without delay, it is necessary to call, warn, act, to increase penalties for all the economic irregularities that have occurred in such companies mentioned in this law. This is a vital message from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Law on Economic Companies, which is before us today, is, according to its articles, exactly the same law, which was passed by the same parliamentary group about three months ago, and follows well-known manners to make the same laws, even though they were recently rejected. At the time of the debate at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we took the view that we strongly condemn conflicts of interest, which are also carried out through the Institute of Silent Partners and institutions of quiet societies. That is why, at the time and today, in terms of the objectives pursued by the law, we have also agreed with these objectives, and we have also said that in the Liberal Democracy Club we have enough almost daily to face such and other alleged abuses in the economic field, especially in relation to companies owned by the state or even by the majority of the state. At that time, we also called on the Government to prepare an appropriate systemic solution as soon as possible, due to this law, which is inoperable and in some parts even inadequate. Likewise today, we find that by deleting a chapter on silent societies, we are not solving exactly anything that we can resolve by means of a declaration of law. If we abolish the Institute of Silent Companies, we will only remove one mechanism administratively, and we will continue to allow this kind of controversial action in a different way. Such findings are also supported by the opinion of the Government, which states that if they followed the intention of the applicant and deleted the chapter in the Company Act governing silent companies, they would not prevent contracts whereby an individual could otherwise participate in the company’s profits. Therefore, we cannot support this solution in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, but we will certainly support comprehensive and practical prevention of conflicts of interest. Although we agree in the Liberal Democracy Club that the instrument of silent societies is too often misused, we find that silent societies know most of us in comparable countries and have no major problems with the concept itself, the difference being that in these countries the control system normally or increasingly works. As is known, last week the government adopted and forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for a new Law on Economic Companies, which more comprehensively and horizontally prevents conflicts of interest in companies. Although we believe that this is one step in the right direction in the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the government law is particularly more effective in solving this issue and that it will also be able to achieve more effectively the objectives that the law under consideration is also supposed to pursue. The new law transmitted by the Government provides that management must, if there is a conflict of interest in the conclusion of a legal business with another company, whose partner is itself or its immediate family member, or is involved in the profits of that other company, on any other legal basis, even if it is a silent partner, for the purpose of concluding such a legal transaction, obtain the consent of the supervisory board of the company. In this way, we hope that in practice we will also solve the horizontal problem of potential concealment of ownership and money outflows to persons who also manage the company. Just as we warned about months ago, we need to reiterate our position that in Slovenia, when we encounter a pressing problem, we have not the best habit of quickly, superficially and supplely going to rescue ourselves. This is that we think that any social problem can be solved by amending legislation. But the problems are usually deeper and are also linked in the economic field to business culture, the understanding of entrepreneurship and cooperative governance. As has already been said, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we cannot support this law in spite of its good purpose, because we would not solve the problems that the bill proposes to solve. Therefore, we welcome the solutions brought by the government novels of the Company Act and also welcome the relatively rapid response of the Ministry, which has prepared the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! An identical bill, as proposed by the opposition SDS now, has already been discussed by Members at the 34th extraordinary meeting of December last year. It has already been made clear that, despite some of the weaknesses of the Institute of Silent Companies, its elimination represents an even greater potential for abuse or even more hidden damage to corporate creditors. The abuse of the Institute of Silent Companies already prevents the existing company law in Article 8, which speaks of the transparency of the legal personality, there is a lot of positive legislation that further limits abuses, and last but not least, at the said extraordinary meeting of the same law, the Government stated that it is aware of some shortcomings in existing legislation and has therefore promised to prepare solutions to address these shortcomings. The promised law is prepared and already submitted to the National Assembly. We hope that the opposition will also be so keenly prepared to resolve the problem of silent societies with its support for this proposal when adopting this amendment. As was already explained and voted in an extraordinary session at the beginning of December last year, we will also reject further consideration of the law in the SD Group. For more reasons than all of the above, you can also read the magnetogram of the debates of our Members, of 2. 12. 2010 We would point out, however, to the fact that over-legislative initiative in general by proposing the same, already rejected, proposals for laws are at least controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Madam Minister, everyone else is present. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are once again coming to try to legislate in the regulatory regime on silent societies. We are once again faced with an experiment that we believe should finally be legalised because the practice so far does not show any good consequences for the current regulatory regime. The silent companies and the silent shareholders are legally regulated in the Company Act, in the third chapter, from Article 158 to Article 167. In the Slovenian legal order, a silent company was placed in a circle of private companies prior to the adoption of the current ZGD. We have taken on the legal regime of silent companies in our legislation by example in the German states, and in Slovenia we have virtually no experience in the operation of silent companies or we do not even know about them. There is no legal practice in this area. The essence of the operation of a silent company is in a contract between a silent company operator and silent shareholders; this contract is not entered into a court register and therefore there is no known relationship between the parties in a silent society. This form of relationship between a silent company operator and silent shareholders allows the existence of a hidden relationship in a silent society and, as a result, allows for a conflict of interests between a particular shareholder or silent participant. In Slovenia, in the absence of legal practice, in Slovenia, where we are facing a post-transition period, there are possible good intentions that such regulatory arrangements could bring into practice – at the time of the previous consideration of this proposal, we have heard from some coalition Members so that through this institution we can obtain additional capital into the Slovenian economy – in Slovenia, given the post-transition period, this is virtually impossible. No example of good practice can be specifically cited through which appropriate regulation in the current legislation on silent companies could be justified. On the contrary. All the cases that we have faced so far, in the past and which we are facing today, speak of the fact that this institution has been, to a large extent or to a large extent, misused for some disguised purposes, to hide from the public, to avoid the tax burden or even for any corruption and other crimes. This, of course, needs to be avoided and we do not understand in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group why the Government and the competent authorities have so long been warming up the relevant regulatory arrangements in this area in such a way as to make this action transparent and to allow public scrutiny of the relationship on this basis. In the Slovenian legal order, we have taken from other regulatory arrangements the various cases that have emerged in these stable systems, such as German and others, as examples of good practice. Unfortunately, they didn't show up like that because of the reasons I mentioned earlier. They have shown themselves in a completely different light and I think it is in the interest of both the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian taxpayers, as well as Slovenian policies, that these relations will finally be legally regulated in a transparent way, in a transparent manner, because this will prevent the possible harmful consequences of this institution. I suggest you reconsider and the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party, or the efforts we are making in this direction, even in those groups of Members that you do not have this purpose, support in the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u16	Your Honor! The aim of the bill tabled by the group of Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, is to prevent the formal legal relationship between the members and the society which is hidden from the public and which is not included in the register of justice and to conceal these relations in order to exploit the conflict of interests of the individual and, consequently, to damage state property in particular. The intended solution, simplified, is simple. The legal basis for the establishment and operation of a silent society shall be abolished and the possibility of an unacceptable conflict of interest shall be terminated. This makes it impossible, as some truly exposed cases show, for example, that an individual who is, for example, a public-owned management body, appears as a contracting authority for services or products while being a silent partner with the provider of such services or the manufacturer or supplier of the product. Proposalers conclude that there is only risk in Slovenia, but not the benefit of the existence of silent companies. They are also likely to circumvent tax rules and thus reduce tax returns by silent partners and silent companies. This claim and conclusion can be challenged in an exaggerated source. The surgical incision shall be used disproportionately and excessively, in view of the consequences of the institution of a silent society. The professional public, also quoted by the Government's opinion, points out that the abolition of a silent society is totally unnecessary and that it could also achieve the opposite effects from the planned ones. This is the position: "The situation which is supposed to prevent the abolition of a silent society will continue to exist only in the context of other, in particular the obliging legal institutions, and thus will not apply," and here is the emphasis, "the restrictions that corporate law as cogent law contains for the protection of creditors and shareholders." In other words, the Institute of Silent Society is in itself no more exposed to abuse than any other institute. In doing so, it should be recalled that the Government's proposal for the amendment of the Law on Economic Companies, as well as the Government's decision on recommendations for silent companies to the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia and legal persons of public law, has been prepared. So things are clearly moving and in our view they are moving in the right direction. In this optics, the Group of Members will not really support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Silent societies are not some modern form of society, nor are they unique to Slovenians. They developed in the late Middle Ages in the area of central Europe, France, Italy, Germany. The essential feature of this company has been and is still today that a silent partner contributes to the company's assets and remains hidden to third parties. Today, therefore, silent companies are formed primarily to carry out those transactions in which the interests of operators are that their participation is not disclosed publicly. This form therefore appears in different areas of the economy. This is, of course, all good and right, and the problem arises when this instrument of silent society is being misused for the personal exploitation of the power and position it has before entering society by a future partner. We have in mind, above all, economic situations when it comes to such or other state-owned enterprises. The Director of a State-owned company influences the selection of a particular supplier. The supplier will surely find it difficult to resist the Director’s desire to become his silent partner. Of course, such an offer is not impossible by the supplier. There is no silent society for the private economic sector and there can be no problem. They could even be allowed to continue in this segment of the economy. The problem of a silent society is becoming extremely large in terms of the state-private sector. In this case, there is no silent society and cannot be a legitimate instrument. It can only be an institutionalised tool of corruption that allows the abuse of power and the situation with governmental and national behaviour and consensus. But in Slovenia, unfortunately, this is all nice and good. The company's majority state-owned director is a silent shareholder of the companies with which this state-owned company cooperates. Coalition parties see no problem in this, no conflict of interest. Everything's fine. Everything's in line with the law. Common sense tells us that we should be appalled over such a situation. It's supposed to be my neighbor who comes by my coffee bar this afternoon. He's a black worker who steals from the country and doesn't pay taxes. However, with the blessing of the Government as a silent partner, the Director, who is placed in his place by the Government, should be able to cash profits with a supplier whose services could be more expensive than otherwise. The silent societies of state officials and managers of companies owned by the majority state, including respected politicians, if you want, are legal corruption. They need to be exposed and banned. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Also, the law that is in the national assembly procedure, prepared by the Ministry, is not, in our opinion, the correct answer to the problem we have. In any case, it allows, I'll say, this kind of corruption. The solution is that up to 10% of the ownership of the company with which the partner participates as director, that is, the director who owns up to 10% of a company with which he cooperates, that only has to inform the supervisory board, and if this is more than 10%, that is simply nothing, according to our assessment. Such cooperation by the Director or the administrative authority, which is also the owner of a company with which this state-owned undertaking is involved, is simply to be prohibited. This should not be allowed in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. There's a mag in the word. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u20	Dear President! From the performances of representatives of the parliamentary groups as well as of the Minister, I am obliged as a representative of the proposal to explain some of the misunderstandings of our proposal, as well as some comparisons between the proposal put forward by the Minister, i.e. the Government proposal, and the proposals of this law proposed by the Members. The first problem is this, so it's a comparison. We propose that the Institute exist in public for a hidden relationship between the members of a particular company in order to reveal itself. That there is no hidden society and no hidden relationship between society and society. In the event of an accident, I have heard something here from the views of the members of the groups, so if this were to be removed from the Company Act, such a relationship would occur, we have a Article 6 of this Act, which states that any relationship between the members or between society and the members is null. That's Article 6. It is said that there are no legal consequences of such a relationship, there is no. And there would be no obligation under any such relationship. This is provided for in Article 6. Even if a void, perhaps without legal basis, appeared under bond law, I do not know any relationship between the parties, this relationship would be null if the public were not available through registration. That's what we suggest. This is said to be the end of this hidden society, which is problematic because of its covertness. Someone with healthy, honest intentions, why hide? Let me know. They're hiding those who don't have that kind of purpose. When we wanted to make these secretaries public at the Commission on Public Finance Control, we were particularly interested in those who, at the same time, are presidents of corporate administrations or in public-owned management and control bodies, the Government said that it did not have these competences to disclose them. Which is not true. I cannot help but avoid the feeling that the Government is directly protecting some individuals who are obviously in the boards of state companies and at the same time silent associates, I do not know where else to go. If not, then take the initiative to disclose this information and publish it. If they're gone, they're gone, so tell me who they are. This is what we requested from the Commission for the supervision of public finances a few months ago, we have not received data or we have only received a letter from the Government that it does not have the authority here to call these leaders to this effect. And that's our proposal. Our proposal is that this institution of silent society should be avoided in the future and that relations with existing silent partners should also be regulated during the transitional period. What about the government's proposal? That such relations continue to exist, the possibility of continuing to exist in these relations, but that certain ones be disclosed to the Supervisory Board. But they can stay hidden from the public. And this does not solve certain cases that have been in practice. What about a silent associate of a silent associate, such as Taluma and the Ptuj Construction Company? Mr Toplek, as a member of the administration or the President of the Taluma administration, was not a silent participant in the construction company, but was a silent participant in the silent partnership of the Ptuj Construction Company. So it's circumstantial. He's a clever man. And interestingly, he covered the rules that were told today, the rules of typical silent societies, so that you have to invest something in silent society, so you can expect dividends. He didn't invest anything in the silent society, but he expected a share of the purchase if this company sold. And he fought it off, and then he went on sale to get his share. Without the cartridge, he didn't give anything. This case, Your Honor, is not covered by your proposal. There is no need to disclose and will continue to remain. And don't think the presidents of the board are less cunning than you are. They're more cunning. They'll find hundreds of ways to bypass this disclosure of yours and they'll have a nice bath in these privileges to continue. If it is true to you, let all these things – because of me too – remain a silent society – be revealed to be a mandatory entry into the register, let it be public. I would like to point out that with the Government's proposal, you want to respond somehow to this challenge that we are putting before you by the opposition, now the second time that something really needs to be done, but you have done things in such a way that it will actually turn out that you have been active and the result will be the same zero. Of course, there will be no impact that we want to achieve. The effect we want to achieve, however, is transparency, just knowing who is where. We don't want to put anyone on a pranger, we don't want anyone to do anything if they have healthy business purposes and they're also involved in corporate relations in companies, I don't mind. I would even agree to this, as I have heard from some, that it is a tradition in developed market economies and why we should not have it either. For a simple reason, because we have not developed a market economy because we are a transition market economy with all the childhood diseases it brings, we are also taking unique solutions in Slovenia that prevent the abuse of individuals and move away from some of the rules of traditional market economies. I believe that the disclosure of relations to the supervisory councils in societies where more than 10% of the silent society is going to be very, very little. First of all, we're dealing with the extreme smoothness between the supervisory councils and the administrations. The Supervisory Councils confirm and decide on individual relations with administrations, especially with regard to salaries, prizes and the like. On the other hand, administrations determine how much the overseers can also cut off from their work in society. And it's no secret to say that, especially in companies owned by the majority state, there is some kind of cooperation, an ugly, sloppiness, between the supervisory councils and the administrations. On this you build the arrangements of the current silent society in the future. That this will not prove to be, it is more than clear. And one more thing. There is no need at all to report on the business of quiet society if it is less than 10%, as far as I understand your proposal. Why? Why not prevent conflicts of interest altogether? Nor should Members be involved in any matter, anywhere, except the exceptions when we are talking about some scientific research work, teaching and so on. Nothing. And here's 10%. What for? Why? Where's that threshold? From where? Why isn't he 50, why isn't he 5? Some unnecessary discretion. I would like to point out that our proposal is fully addressing these issues, and yours is very superficial, so in my opinion it will only be possible to include one measure which, in practice as many others, will not work and will be its own purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Get Franco Yuri ready, followed by Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. The objectives of the law are certainly positive, and we have also received information that we already know a great deal about the fact that the Government is also preparing a new law on economic society. Should we rigorously address this issue of the anomalies of silent societies, simply to put an end to them, or are we trying to adjust the matter properly with the amendment of the law or to limit it to those areas that are still admissible? This novel, which will give competence to the supervisory committees, I fear that this instrument will not work as it is intended, as we have seen, as has already been said today, a great deal of pressure between the supervisory committees and the administrations. It's not only personal, it's in a sense systemic. As I have studied the novels of the law relating to public institutions and also to the law on non-economic public companies, these novels allow the supervisory boards to even receive awards from the commercial activities of these public institutions. I am merely giving an example that the demotivability mechanism has already been systematically introduced here, or that the supervisory boards will supervise the administrations if they are even involved in the profit of operating surpluses. Strips are also between politics and the economy. There's no doubt about that. However, the original sin, as I have pointed out in several places, even though it is not the topic of the agenda, in financing the electoral campaign economy. Although this electoral campaign is limited, limited, but by allowing the economy to finance an electoral campaign, we are actually setting up that primary basic mechanism, creating conditions for corrupt relations. All those economic operators that finance the electoral campaign need to be reimbursed in some way. There may also be one way by allowing silent companies to operate. This is also one of the possible systems where all of this is compensated, "service for service". We'll decide tonight when we vote. The three Members will take this seriously. In fact, a person is deciding whether to rigorously prohibit or seek in the amendment of the law those exceptional cases where this is permissible. I'm more inclined to say that if the control system is not possible, it's better to ban something. It's the same thing as a little job travel agent. The Minister or Government has prepared a number of restrictions at the level of the employee, at the level of the employer, but we already know that the Inspectorate for Work cannot control this and is unsupervised in itself. The work inspector can control whether or not a work contract is in place or not, until this stage, how many hours someone has worked at an establishment is virtually impossible to monitor. I don't think surveillance will be viable. I am more inclined to simply abolish this institution, regardless of the fact that it is not known abroad and probably works positively in certain cases. Even now, atypical silent societies have been mentioned, in which workers are also owners of these silent societies, but because of these positive exceptions we allow the institute, which in itself allows for many anomalies and abuses. Perhaps we could better settle this matter by making arrangements regarding business partners, silent business partners, or business secrets. We could do this in other articles. But I am more inclined to believe that this institution of silent societies, at least in our business conditions and our transition conditions, would be better even to stop than to look for so-called exceptional cases and solutions when the Supervisory Board may even supervise itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] The word is Jakob the Presbyterian, to prepare Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! There are certain things that need to be changed in this area. I am not saying, I am also very much in the dilemma of whether this proposal, which has been put forward, is, as many of you have already said, being dealt with in another way, presupposes the abolition of silent societies, whether it is also completely correct in all cases. There is certainly something else to be added to this law in the further debate, including on the Committee. That's for sure. However, when I compare it with the law drawn up by the Government, I think it carries some recent date, I think that a few days ago, or a week ago, the Government has adopted it as a proposal, but I am sure that this proposal, which is a day under consideration today, is certainly significantly better in our situation. I am of course convinced that these forms of individual action in several areas are extremely disproportionately solved. We all know that last year we passed the law, the National Assembly adopted it, although we opposed it because of some completely illogical solutions, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, has approximately such an address, where it completely disproportionately regulates, uncritically regulates certain activities that may also be carried out by different officials at different levels. The vast majority of Members have signed a proposal for amendments to this law, and last week, I read comments from some experts and politicians on anti-corruption, that a large majority of Members have succumbed to the interests of the mayors of municipalities and so on. I certainly don't agree with that. In one area, any official must not be president of a cultural society that receives 200 euros from the municipality, and on the other hand we have things that have already been mentioned today, and certainly a whole bunch of them, where these numbers or links are substantially different and still hidden. This is the problem — if only they were exposed, if they were known. Therefore, I am sure that something in this case must be done that it is obvious that the law will not be supported again, but I will certainly be very critical of the proposal made by the Government in this case, and it will have to be reformed strongly, otherwise we will not be at the same time when it is confirmed or we will certainly vote "against" because it creates or makes possible again these relations, which are at least, socially harmful and bring some enormous personal benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has Ivan Grill, to prepare Matjaž Zanoškar and behind him mag. Borut Saiovic, Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Minister with co-workers! It has been known for many years that there has been a lot of economic crime in Slovenia. Obviously that is true, and this also shows new discoveries, but I am sure that this crime is even more important than it can be detected. Let us ask ourselves why there is so much crime in Slovenia, although no country is immune, but we certainly have a relatively high level. Probably one of the key reasons is that very innovative are those who carry out this economic crime. Surely there are at least two steps ahead of the writers of the laws, before the government, before the Ministry and probably also before the repressive authorities. Another reason, however, is likely to be the ability to look for such legislation. And this legislation, no one will convince me, has been written since independence in such a way that such abuses can also be carried out, of course in a hidden way. And two of these laws are definitely the next. The first is the Personal Data Protection Act, which allows for the protection of personal data to be covered by such or other data of those who are involved or authors, detected or hidden, economic crime, as well as other types. It's not just that. The second law is certainly the Law on Economic Companies and the so-called chapter of silent shareholders. These are two laws that allow fishing in mud. I firmly believe that if you ask successful entrepreneurs, those who really work for the purpose, the soul, the heart who want to create prosperity, or support the way they can hide behind some business events or actions. I'm sure you don't. Anyone who wants to act honestly will act honestly and will not hide behind such or other options as silent associates bring. And I would very much like to hear from you, Madam Minister or co-workers or anyone where those arguments are, the advantages that silent society brings. Not with those flossules that some people want to invest, but they don't want to be exposed. These are empty reasons. Some strong argument that will convince the public and of course us that silent society is indeed some way to promote entrepreneurship, the development of entrepreneurship, investment in science and development and so on. I'm sure there won't be any such arguments. And the next question, I'd like to ask you if you could answer me. Who has written this bill, which you have now adopted in the Government and put into the procedure? Are these your associates, professional officials, or is it an external institution or is it some kind of law firm that, through silent associates, is it possible to see that those who support silent society were in the background? I fear, Madam Minister, that this bill has been written in such a way that those who have so far abused this institution of quiet society are opening champagne because they know that, by means of such a law as the Government proposes, this purpose, which we have put into the Slovenian Democratic Party, will not be prevented by our law. Why allow silent society, why allow things to be hidden if this is not necessary? Let the matter be public, let it be clear to anyone who, of course, wants it. Regardless of whether you are citing yourself, or even in the coalition, some people know this institution also from other countries or from some of the European countries. I agree, but probably they are not that innovative or they have repressive authorities, they have control authorities that prevent or prevent these abuses. Only this law, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will partly, I speak in part, not entirely, make it impossible or cut off these abuses of the so-called silent partners. What would be the consequences of all these covert acts, perhaps a little later. I would now comment only on the solutions you give in your marriage. You have mentioned that it will be necessary to disclose or obtain the consent of the supervisory councils, those who will be 10% members or ownership of 10%. Mr Andrej Vizjak spoke earlier about the so-called linkage or smoothness of the supervisory boards, as well as the management of companies. Practice shows, or data, evidence that there is a group of people who are essentially holding each other, in their own words, scurvy, shrango. He's a supervisor at one firm, this supervisor who's in this firm is the CEO or the director at another firm and so on. And it's all a group of people who control it. Those who want or work in the background of such irregularities or abuses will also continue to do so. And now one more question that I am asking myself, and I believe that there is probably a lot of truth in what I want to say right now. Where millions of euros or billions of euros were created in Slovenia, they have gone unknown where or probably they know where: Cyprus, Liechtenstein and so on. Let's take a look at SCT. The company, which received all the work in the country, was cashing billions of euros. We know she didn't pay her subcontractors. It means that she got paid, and those who caused some of the costs to this company didn't pay. It means they got that money. Where'd he go? Probably not to Slovenian banks. I am of the opinion that, if not even convinced that they were probably through some quiet society or through such ways, they have taken this money abroad. But because, according to existing legislation, even with regard to the interrelationship of law enforcement, the judiciary, the prosecution and probably other supervisory functions, for the first time, he probably doesn't want to disclose it, but for the second time, there are probably big problems to detect it. And silent associates or silent societies are, I am sure, one of the important ways in which these abuses have probably been served in the past. It's probably SCT, and Vegrad's a lot more. These were companies that received money from the state, didn't pay their workers, didn't pay their contractors. But that's not the money. Tell me how this money could have gone into the accounts in Liechtenstein, Cyprus, and God knows where else. Respected coalition, I believe that this law, which we are proposing today, will be rejected again under the pretext that the government law is solving this, but believe me, sooner than in a few months when the government law is being considered and adopted, we will be able to prove through cases that it has not produced the expected effects, and we will probably be a few months late after unnecessary to prevent further walking and destruction of the Slovenian economy through the Institute of Silent Companies. That is why I support this law of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I believe and I'm sure he's the only one who can handle this area at least partially right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan. Get Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, I wanted to ask the minister a question, but she was detained, and today we may be able to communicate more. The fact is that we have always heard from the ruling coalition that the proposals we are preparing in the opposition in the Slovenian Democratic Party are not a suitable basis for further consideration, for any reason or other. I like to say it more than once, then let's ask ourselves if the government is fit for further rule. The fact is, silent companies are a pressing problem in Slovenia. This problem was not present for a long time because it was simply not revealed that someone was a silent participant, but he was dealing with a company owned by the majority of the state, of course until then there was no problem. And even after the warning of individual cases began, this was not taken seriously. Serious treatment occurred when it became visible and clear that the Director of Taluma was also a silent associate of a silent company with which he was dealing. That's when things got a little more serious. Well, now it's obvious that someone's taking it seriously, not just us who warned us about it. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government, when answering parliamentary questions, said that if we disagree on a matter, if we have a different opinion or criticise, we should make an alternative proposal. We have given an alternative proposal to silent companies – an alternative to a silent society is a public society or at least that all the elements are public, known, then can't be anything hidden, can't be the subject of some insinuations, but what if it is, what if it isn't, but you're not right, but it doesn't know It's true if it's public, then it's known. [[...]] In addition, something needs to be highlighted. He says they have quiet societies in Germany, for example. Whether it's a form like ours or not, I don't know, but they have a quiet society. But if you want some system to work, then all systems in society have to work, including the judicial system, including the tax system, everything has to work. We don't have one or the other. And then there are such anomalies as silent societies that this is not a suitable form for our current situation. And if that is the case, then we need to adapt and make such a system so that what does not work will somehow be bypassed, yet the matter will be public, presented and visible and will not be manipulated. This is a public matter. That's the way it is with us. And I must admit that I agree with what one speaker has already presented before me. The government has proposed a proposal, and the proposal is here that, for example, a municipal councilman cannot be president of a fire company or a president, I don't know, a society of small animals lovers or a mountain society, because there can be a conflict of interest because the municipality is dealing with it and he is a saint. And now, please, the president of a fire company should not be, but everything is public, because the municipal budget is completely public and knows exactly how much the fire company represented by this person, who is possibly a saint, does not do so, but on the other hand, it can be, I don't know, the president of the administration of a company that has a billion-dollar realisation, which, of course, is positive, can do business with itself because he is a silent companion. Is that allowed? There, we wave over municipal councillors that they must not be saints if they are still presidents of a society that receives perhaps a few thousand euros a year from the municipal budget. It doesn't make sense. It's a matter of common sense. And there's a conflict of interest with the councilman, but there's no conflict of interest here. And I don't understand why we fight so hard to get things on the green branch. And now we are proposing the law that the matter is public, in one form or another, because now the details are not important, but that the matter is public, that it is presented, that we can never say, "Yes, and we did not know that it is a silent associate". If that's not the case, then the matter is clear. The government, if I have the latest version of this law, is preparing, as the minister also mentioned, that the supervisory board will have to know that someone will have to whisper to him that someone is a silent companion. Yeah, but what if he doesn't whisper to the control council? What if the supervisory board doesn't get the right data, and then we can say again in a year, "I, someone let us down, someone stole my identification," we'll say it. How do we know when they have the right information? Besides, look, Madam Minister, there's something else I'd like to tell you. We also had an investigative commission today. It doesn't matter what it is now, but there we've found about the takeover legislation for companies in the past and we've come to the conclusion that legislation has always been one step behind for boys who were inventive, either they had information or they were exploiting it. And we always, when we found some steps, each government, whatever it was, corrected the legislation for that matter that we found out. We've fixed it. But the boys always made up a new step and we were one step behind. But look what's going on here in quiet societies. For silent companies, we already know that this famous director of the Taluma administration was a silent companion of a silent society. This is said, in this case, even if the Supervisory Board had determined, as stipulated in your law, it would not have been established because he is a silent companion of a company. A silent companion of a silent companion. How? That's what they say. The supervisory board couldn't figure it out. The Supervisory Board just couldn't figure it out. I wouldn't get the data. And they can find a third step, a silent companion of a silent companion in a silent society with a silent companion. This is also because there is no prohibition that this would not be if he was a silent companion. He can come in the fifth knee. And now the government is proposing a solution that is two more steps behind. So we can never get to the green branch after this proposal, because it can get to the fifth knee in a quiet society. The Supervisory Board will not be able to get to that information. And why do we have to deal with this now, and the supervisory council has to find out, look for, I don't know what information anywhere, in Liechtenstein or in Cyprus, whether there's a silent companion or there's someone who owns it. It's nonsense. They won't have the data. It'll be fun to go on. It will be a joy to move forward, and this disturbs me in this government proposal. I am also disturbed by the fact that you reject our proposals, and it is clear that it is more in step with those who try to overcome it than with the law proposed by the Government. This is already clear because we have a proposal to prove it. And we're not going to solve that problem that happened in Talum in that way. It is still a hidden matter, it will still, indeed, that one step can go forward, but this case has already shown that it will not be effective. Now everyone will know that you must go to the third knee with a quiet company or with a quiet companion, and the supervisory board will not know that. And if we compare this to the municipal council now, there's a conflict of interest if the president of the fire department is a municipal councilman, when he gets a few thousand euros, or maybe a mountain society, when he gets a few thousand euros, here, when it comes to millions, and it turns out that we have cases like this, and here's the problem of making it public and doing something public. It just doesn't work out. We can really ask ourselves here, who's doing this right now? I doubt that those of you who sit in the government are silent comrades, I doubt it. You really have to say this to me, "I am." Then I'll believe it or else I know you didn't. And I don't know who you're setting your back for, I don't get it, I don't know who you're setting your back on, so that some of you can survive. And if that were not the case, then you would not have recently received data that is in Liechtenstein and Cyprus, only these countries have been mentioned, have recently been somehow transferred some 100 million euros from Slovenia. I imagine that some CEO or an entrepreneur couldn't just go to a post office or a bank, and say, "Now, send me money to Liechtenstein or Cyprus or somewhere else." That's probably not it. But it had to go through some weird channels so that it didn't even know anyone was sending it through the mailboxes. And silent companies are the ideal form for the functioning of postal mailboxes. I support this proposal of ours, and I think that in this case, when we can compare it with a government proposal, it is significantly better and it is more time-consuming, more step-by-step with those who want to mix and play, if you want, public interest or conflict of interest. And that's why I'm going to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Have Franz Pukšič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have a law before us that would at least solve the acute problem of Slovenian society and the financial and economic situation. The government assures us daily, as early as yesterday, Mr President of the Government, that they are doing their best not to sink Slovenia. However, when we listen to today's reactions and the views of government parties and Madam Minister, we find that such talk is misdirection, sand in the eyes of the Government and the government coalition, because the government obviously does not want to act at least where certain acts have been disclosed, there are real acts that smell of economic crime that cannot be tolerated. What has been revealed in the case of Mr Toplek, Director of Talum, that the silent shareholder of two silent companies is, of course, a repeatedly covered matter with which the state-owned company, which is the director, is operating and clearly transferring profits, is helping to submerge state assets. That's no problem for the government. We know that this is only the tip of the iceberg, that Mr Toplek himself is said to be a very silent partner in a large number of societies, and that on this basis he is a remarkable mogul. Instead of telling us how the Minister has acted against this director, who is a director in a society that is practically 80 or 90% state-owned, the Minister is preparing a law that tries to communicate with the public to do some work, but that is to hide the problem in order to protect such cases. Madam Minister, I ask you directly whether the President of the Government has asked you to do everything you can to protect this particular director of Toplek, who was his party's candidate in the national elections. And because there was another Member in that factory at the time, Mr Levanic. Apparently, you're protecting all these jobs. And in what way does the government try to fight and show the public that it will do something? They agree that something needs to be done, but as we read, the government is proposing a fine to conceal a quiet society in the supervisory world. And according to the Finances, Toplek would be up to 4,000 euros in fines. This is the mockery, the mockery of the government and the ministry, because for one ordinary Slovenian citizen 4 000 Euros of fine is, of course, a huge penalty. This is above the annual income of almost average Slovenian. And for these cases and for these people, playing games, playing games, it's covering their jobs. Look, it's a typical example of what the mighty seem to have such sums. The last time commission receipts, bribes in Nis were disclosed to the public by Mr Jankovic and four others, as reported at least, at the rate of EUR 100,000, Mr Jankovic reacted, four of whom would have been involved, saying EUR 25 000, "it is not for me to go into something for 25 thousand euros, I had 15,000 euros in wages, no rewards, without anything else, for such a change I do not talk about". And I believe that, for Mr Jankovich, 25,000 euro is a change. For we know what is revealed now, what is in Cyprus, what is in Liechtenstein. And this is a change for the gentleman, and also for this Mr. Toplek of the Talum, this is a change. But these money ran out of taxpayers' pockets from state property. And at the same time, the government is carefree, it is actually legalized that the Barons of this coalition will not be tarnished before the public, that they have done something that is at least controversial, if not criminally. The government covers the crimes of these people, the barons of their coalition. If I have correctly observed, Mr Goran Klemenčič has also pointed out this problem. The man who runs the anti-corruption commission. So you're giving him no confidence when you're opposed to this law. Then why put him at the head of a commission if he can't fight corruption? But then he holds that from sociologist Urban Vehovar that the government coalition has found that Mr Klemenčič is dangerous, that he is sincerely fighting corruption and that he must be declared stupid or physically eliminated, eliminated. Is that true then? I would say that based on the reactions to this law, there are such thoughts in the government coalition. This law, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the coalition, is the lacumus paper of your willingness to fight the anomalies in our society, against corruption. Or do you want to speed it up? After reactions to this law in these parliamentary groups, corruption, if true, says the barons, if true directors, is something desirable, something good, in fact something is wrong with those who warn. Let us be members of the opposition, whether Mr Goran Klemenčič is from the anti-corruption commission. I call on you from the government coalition, not to make fun of the citizens, stop making fun. Action must be taken and action must be taken by this law, a part of what must be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Procedural, Mr. Puksic? Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u32	Yes, the President. Greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Given that a lot of questions have been raised in this debate, I would not like to repeat myself in my debate and ask again some questions, I would ask if the Minister would answer the questions raised, because then the debate could run in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. This is a general debate. The Minister may or may not come to the door because there are no questions or answers. But apparently the secretary will come by, because she's already signed up for the word. The word has magic. Darja Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I think it's a good idea for me to come by. I'm just gonna start with the last questions. I know that this only opens the door so that we can listen to the story of Mr Toplek and his case, which was not solved by the President of the Government and has not ordered anyone else, and neither does the President of the Government ask us to act on a case-by-case basis. Maybe it was happening at some other time, under another government. In the case of Toplek and the suggestion that something is wrong in this society, the authorities responsible in each normal country, namely the supervisory board of this company, reacted. As I am aware, an independent auditor's audit has been carried out which has not shown any error. However, if you think otherwise, you have every opportunity under the bond law and under other laws to initiate all procedures for prosecution. Mr Petan, I apologize, I was in Brussels yesterday on the energy world where we met Energy Ministers. I think my absence was excused. And I will be happy to answer the question raised today and also on the next occasion. We're not setting anyone's back, Mr. Petan. This law and these proposals were prepared by my colleagues, specifically Mrs Helena Rus, a member of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, dealing with the company law. So there was no lawyer and no partial interest here is involved. The fact is that with this bill that we have now proposed, we also want to maintain the normal situation in this country in the area of corporate governance. Even me and all of us would like to delete a whole chapter on silent societies. But you know what that means? This means that we are closing our eyes to a problem that is not solved only by deleting a chapter in the Company Law. Such contracts will continue to be concluded and such transactions will continue to be carried out on the basis of other laws, on the basis of the bond law, where contractual relations are established. There's only one problem. In this case, it will only be a contractual relationship. Here, because this is included in the company law, we have the possibility that other, other elements of corporate governance, rights and obligations will be different. And there's something else I feel. You're all mixed up, quiet society isn't company. The silent partner has a contractual relationship with one society and there is no problem not to be identified in accordance with a proposal for a law that we have already put into procedure, a silent society because of me in the hundredth knee. All I want to say is that, in fact, with this bill you are proposing now, we are not solving the problem. With this proposal, which the Government is going to make, and we are likely to talk a lot about the solution at that time, we are giving the opportunity for the silent partners to be revealed, of course, particularly where the state has an interest. The Company Act is not only written for companies where the State owns. It is also written for all societies, and we need to think a little about what we are actually doing with these solutions to the law. That is why we have decided to go, even if this relates to private companies, to determine and require the disclosure of silent associates to their supervisory board. I think that's a pretty good solution. And here, if I understand correctly, it doesn't matter which society, whether it's a major or a subsidiary, in any society a silent partner has to disclose these relationships. Not just him, his family members. However, we did not want the company law to specifically lay down one rule for companies which are partly state-owned. We can't do that because then we take a nap in the entire corporate management system. The government has therefore also adopted decisions which will give the agency the authority to manage or already manage those companies which are already state-owned, that all these relationships must be disclosed there, and that data will be kept by the Agency. Now I don't know if we're going to make public lists or if we're going to have everything in this country, then let's give the tax bills everything. Will we have everything hanged? And I don't think that's appropriate anymore. But somewhere this control has to stop. Of course, in the event of a suspected crime in this country, we already have clear instruments to prosecute such acts. Instead of discussing this here, I suggest that those who have information or are obliged by law and by the Constitution to report it to law enforcement authorities. If you have this information. Of course, where millions, billions went, Mr Grill is not to ask those who have been drinking champagne and opening champagne in the past six years. And these networks he's been talking about, I don't think we're going to solve this problem with this law and with these provisions. This is more of a problem of criminal law and the persecution of connections that are irregular. We cannot get everything into one article and solve all the problems that have accumulated in this country in particular in recent years. I hope I answered all the questions. Once again, I would like to point out that we are likely to consider amendments to the company law at the next meeting, which, in my view, deal much more appropriately with the issue of the operation of silent companies in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, as the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u36	Dear President, I don't know what else to do. I have said the solutions to this law four times in December, three times already here today, and I hear once again from the Minister that he does not understand what the substance of this bill is. We do not just delete the chapter in the law on companies with regard to silent societies, but Article 6 is also important in the law. The Minister says that this will not solve the problem, because the partners will be able to enter into contracts with each other or some relationship under the bond law and continue to hide, so this does not solve the problem. That's not true. Article 6, Madam Minister, if you have not read it, I will now read it to you, saying that every legal transaction must be entered in the register and that the application must also be accompanied by acts whereby the person is, in any case, in relation to the members or between the party and society. It is true, we make this legal business possible, there is no problem, business is easy, but they must be entered into the register, and that is the point, they are no longer hidden and hidden to the public. That's the point. We do not want to restrict free entrepreneurial freedom, because it can be harmful to the economic activity of this country, but we want these to be transparent because it is also good in the light of the tax system. And now I am asking you in a new aspect of all these relations of silent partners, but what is the tax aspect, if cases are not reported and are hidden, is still an important tax aspect and calls for tax evasion and also for the concealment of public treasury obligations. One more time. The motions are two. In fact, we propose that the Institute of silent society be abolished in the company law, and at the same time we propose that any relationship between the company and the company or between the members of the company entered in the register and this entry must also be submitted with appropriate acts. If this is not the case, so if this is not submitted to the register, then such a legal transaction is null and void, we propose this in Article 6. So we're preventing the possibility of what you're saying that the law will not achieve its purpose. And once again, we are confident that your solution will not bring purpose. You're saying that we, as proponents, should report those silent associates who abuse this to the relevant law enforcement authorities. We've been dealing with one of those silent associates that we've already found out about. We are also at the Commission on Public Finances, which, by the way, is employed in a state firm and is also a very wealthy man in that end of Slovenia, we wanted to ask him a little bit about these relations. Ignoreed, respected President of the National Assembly, is our Parliament and our commission, has not come and has not apologized. To at least say, "I don't have time for you Members, because I'm on vacation or counting euros or dollars or pounds or even kunas." No, the gentleman didn't come, he didn't apologize, and he showed an attitude towards Parliament. And this government's relationship with the minister continues to protect. The gentleman didn't have to give the minister, not the government, not anyone an account, but by the way, the director of the state firm, Talum is still in majority state ownership. Worse still, we have asked the Minister, we have asked the Government to reveal the other silent associates only where they are also in the administration and supervision of state companies or are officials in this country. We didn't get any of this. And now the minister calls for us to incriminate those silent associates. Dear Minister, we must first expose them, we are one or the media, because he has come into conflict with his silent associates, because otherwise we would not have run him off the road if the man had not fought for his millions, which came from a quiet society. And that's why we've detected the problem that we've been trying to further investigate and clear up, and we're not doing it because you don't want to be part of it. Yesterday, I called on the President of the Government to undertake to disclose all bank and other accounts of these construction tycoons, companies that are in bankruptcy abroad and at home. And he said he didn't mind. I expect him to play an active role in this disclosure, not that he doesn't mind. And I also expect you to play an active role in preventing this deviant phenomenon of corporate law in Slovenia, not that you don't mind. That's the point. And we don't understand each other here. We therefore insist on these solutions, which we are proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has Franz Pukšič, to prepare Aloise Potočnik, followed by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much for the answers that you have given, Madam Minister, before, but I believe that in one sentence you have been a little doomed, as you said, but control must stop at some point. I hope that you did not think so, however, if I judge by this government and the ministers who are in this government, it is possible that the strategy and doctrine of this government, even the LDS and Zareza, which comes from the LDS – because this is the same, it is the same – where it came in, he said, he lied to the public – and nothing happened, Minister Golobič, where it proved how and what was happening at the personal level of credit – and nothing happened where there were peaceful souls lying around businesses abroad, and nothing happened. Of course, the law enforcement authorities didn't do anything, not for once, at least it didn't. And also this time, because it is on the website, the finance has also placed on the website this contract on Mr Toplek, a contract to regulate the relationship between the silent society. I do not know which Slovenian law states that there may also be an indent in the article that states that a silent society outside will not use the mark for a silent society, but that it has only an internal character in it. This is definitely a corrupt act. And if it is a corrupt act, we should act on it. Even those who have permission, the right to rule my country. The third article of this Treaty also states that the operator of a silent company through SHOP, d.o.o., is obliged to invite a silent shareholder. So quiet society, silent companion. So it is his duty to invite this Mr Toplek to meetings, as if he were a member, and also to coordinate all possible transactions with him. What does all this come out of, dear God? This may also result in the fact that some money will be used for any action. I'm sorry if you want terrorist acts, too. And, of course, beyond that, it will all be legal and proper. I myself, both in writing and orally, have called on the Minister for Finance to prevent such a person from being at the summit, i.e. the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank. But, Madam Minister, you have said that the overseers have done so, and now you have Pilately washed your hands in this government. But the supervisors said O.K., everything's great because they did the audit. Minister, if you'll excuse me, I've got some pages thinly written, so at least some of the irregularities that have happened here. Well, let us begin with this Pilateic washing of the time, how the overseers have done the work together, and how they have done their own revisions. The 2007 event. The January audit was agreed despite the selection of the Supervisory Board. Franc Kolenc from the Audit House of the Currency has already served in the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. Connect with whom Franz Kolenc participated in the Talum and with whom he participated in the New Ljubljana Bank. The material was prepared by certain heads of staff, the minister, and written a report as if they were auditors. So I'm the head of the department, and I'm going to write a report that you're going to sign as an auditor. Can you imagine, Madam Minister, that I would write for myself as the head of the job that I was a thief, that I was stealing, that, for example, I put money into building a golf course, that my director of the Taluma is a secret associate of some silent society that made a deal? The construction company concluded a contract that my director signed for the yard and so on for 350 million because there were still millions of SITs, and this contract eventually grew to 1 billion. What happened here in the middle? Could Mr Danilo Toplek also become a silent partner of some other companies through such a contract? Don't laugh at me from that bench, ladies and gentlemen, because you're making a fool out of this country and these people, and you let that happen. And that's a fact. Listen, it's probably not my mom who doesn't know where Talum is, it's someone who's been in the Talum for decades at work, but probably not the one who's got the coal in the furnace of metal, but someone who's obviously known about it. And let's move on. The continuation of the story, because we have already heard it, but obviously we must repeat it and tell you that you are wrong to do Pilate's laundry in this government to protect perhaps one of the richest Slovenians and the last one who is already in charge of property, because through the capital that is outside, it will be possible to bring and own this Talum at the opportunity that will happen. Why am I talking about this so vehemently? Also because this is one document that came from the government and writes: "In a recent conversation with representatives of Immol and some Members of the economy, we were familiar with the situation, the problematic relationship between Talum, d.d., and Impol, d.d. "Impol, d.d., is approximately 40% owned by my country and Talum is about 80%. Now listen to the content: "We are aware that a long-term contract has been concluded between the two companies, the number 321/00 in 2000, which is valid for 10 years. According to the contract, Talum, d. d., sold aluminium to Impola at 40 thousand tonnes at market prices. In fact, Impol, d. d., Talumu, d. d., would only buy between 9,000 and 14 thousand tons per year. But then he didn't need any more aluminum? He needed to. The remaining quantities must be purchased on the market by the company North Hydra, which sells the aluminium Talum. As follows from this, part of the aluminium does not come to Impol, d.d., from Talum directly, but in accordance with the corresponding contract through intermediaries. Why? Maybe because he came across North Hydra from Sweden cheaper? Is that possible, or do you believe that? Can you laugh about it, these bastards? Can you still laugh about it? Have you checked? Did you do anything about it? Where are the law enforcement agencies now, and the National Bureau of Investigation judges, and so on, to sort things out? Where are they? Wait a minute. This document says where the judges are, even that's what it says, yeah, that's what they wrote me. For example, "Danilo Toplek has obvious," because I read what they wrote to me, "in government structures and in the media in the local environment there is a great deal of support that it provides in different ways. That's how he's got a lot of support in court in Ptuj. Sister," not mine, Danila Toplek, "Biserka Rojc," well, otherwise it's written because she's married, "she's the vice-president of the court who helps bankrupt companies who have to disappear. Many companies have been set up and many have disappeared." Where are the law enforcement authorities? Is this really untouchable in this country? Really? And how long will it be? And where does that lead us? Of course, Mr. Danilo Toplek can afford the following, and writes in the newspaper: "Not at least once a year do I put my own accounts to the owners of the company and the market. That's why they're the last ones to judge whether I'm doing my job well." A little before that, he says, "I do well in my work as President of the Supervisory Board of the other largest Slovenian banks and whether I should continue to do so will be decided by the owners and not by representatives of political parties." Yes, please! We have been elected, exactly 90 of us are those who are obliged by the stop to care for the property of our country. You in the government were elected from here to manage this property. You don't do that, and that's what we're warning you about. With this law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, at least a few would, at least a little, step on the fingers of some. And then he says in his answer that he puts bills once a year. Ask him! Ask your supervisor if he said he was co-owner, that he was a silent associate of a silent society. Is that what he told the supervisors? Did he have to say that? He didn't have to? Did he do it? And if he didn't tell, he lied! He was covering the truth! And if he was covering it up, he can't be, Minister, he's the more president of the supervisory board of the second largest Slovenian bank! And it's time to stop him from doing this. If nothing else, at least a minimal step in this direction will be taken by supporting this law. We'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Pukšič, reading anonymouss is not the bravest act. If you have already read them, you would at least indicate whether someone has signed them or not. The word is Aloysius Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Jože Tanka has the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. They have now been, I think, two very well-founded debates, colleague Viszak and colleague Pukšič, with arguments. In fact, what was said was a real problem. And these solutions, which have been said, are in fact also in conflict with what the Government proposes in its law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u41	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u42	said the Minister. [[...]] And I would like to ask the Minister to comment first on these two discussions, which have been substantive, which have said a lot of arguments, why in this area it is necessary to do as it is written – perhaps the Government will add something – but not as the Government proposes. And I'd like to ask for the Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The secretary will call when she wants to. Maybe she'll wait for your debate. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is likely that government representatives are also involved in the work of the National Assembly, but they are only physically involved. But we miss the debates and the arguments. I would like to say in my debate that silent societies are in fact the fundamental problem of Slovenia today for the poor situation in the country. We observe that even the largest companies in the area of construction, which are now bankrupt, have 10, 20, 30, 40 secret accounts at locations abroad, in Liechtenstein, where there are between a few million and a few ten million euros. That's how we learned from the reports. This case is Vegrad. No one knows who owns these accounts, no one knows why they did business there through these accounts, why such transactions were made. This has not been established by any audit, nor has the Anti-Money Laundering Office been found to do so by supervisors. No one found out about this and if you could possibly get from these accounts that were collected abroad, let's say Vegrad got the money back, probably this company wouldn't be in bankruptcy. And there are some of these giants in this country. When the minister says it is possible to arrange this in a way that those owners, silent associates of silent companies, the owners of silent companies inform the supervisory board about these matters, you know, because there are many overseers in these silent companies – one or more or even the entire crew. And what happens to companies in one or another kind of ownership and channelling money through these matters is probably the collective game of those who are in such companies and who are going to do this business. And what you're suggesting with your solution will not solve this problem. All those who oppose the abolition of the Institute of Silent Society with all these additions, which are written in Article 6, are in fact all those who are in favour of keeping the archives closed, it is you who support the non-delivery of Telekom's documentation to the National Assembly investigative committee, for example, in the case of Patria and so on. It's exactly the same circle of people, the same political group you're the one who don't do anything in this area to clear things up. And the law proposed by the Government is just another law that will stop a new legal void so that it will not be possible to act. Dear Minister, by criminal procedure and by criminal code or by any other means, it is only possible to act if the legislation is in breach. If you maintain an institute of silent society, then it is not possible to initiate any criminal proceedings. If you support the solution proposed by the silent society institute to remove all legal transactions and all documents relating to this matter, it is only then that there are conditions for any of this work to be triggered through law enforcement authorities. Not before. Because everything's legal before that. I'm surprised you're so stubborn to defend that interest. And there's another thing. They are usually those who are important representatives of companies owned by the majority state, also appointed to the authorities of banks where they receive in a privileged way funds for the operations of their companies. Banks, because they have an inadequate structure, are heavily indebted abroad, are also in debt. And a lot of this money through transactions, through banks, through public or majority state-owned companies ends up in secret accounts of silent partners. A lot of that money ends up there. And it is likely that this country will end up with only a high public debt, which will be borne by all citizens in solidarity. Where bad investments come from, how those who have, I don't know, three weeks ago let the company go bankrupt, left millions of debts, quickly set up a new company with a few million capital, and have several times as much money booked in other locations that will be activated for such purposes, if necessary. How is that possible? We are also proposing a novelty of bankruptcy law, which would be a ten-year ban for such people. In this case, too, the solution will be incomplete and inappropriate, as in what the Government is now saying and what the Minister is saying. I think that the law that we are proposing should be supported by all those who think positively, all those who have something to do with transparency, who have something to do with the rule of law, who have something to do with some order in this country, including all those who have something to do with payment discipline in this country. The economy cannot operate if so much money is channelled from the country and does not run in business systems. The privileged companies, which received, say, cartel prices for most government transactions, did not pay and eventually go bankrupt. You can't understand that, and those who support it, "keep this stall." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u45	Mr Villa Trofenik has the word to prepare the Black Bell – he can no longer because time has run out. Matevž Frangež. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u46	I have no ambition to cover, protect red, black, orange, blue and what is still the color shades of the colored scale — the bastards. If someone, on the basis of some public trust or the trust of the owners, is working to the detriment of that trust, if such trust fails, I am sure that we have developed all the mechanisms in this country today to prosecute such acts and practices. In the previous debate, I came to the conclusion that the intention of the motioners is to solve everything by law. We will not save anything in this country by law if we do not develop other mechanisms, and that is by cultivating responsibility. What we should do in such cases is that we demand this responsibility, that those who are called to exercise responsibility do all they need to do to clarify the circumstances of such and similar cases. I think that must be our purpose. It is not, however, that, as was said in the debate, we will, in fact, respond to every social anomaly in this country by law. Where did that get us? We have already drawn one continuity of legal overriding from the previous regime. And today it is. We live in a fantasy that laws can solve anything. No, no, no. There are people on the other side of these laws. And people are good and bad. And we need to make sure that people with integrity, good people, know how to warn, detect and persecute those who are bad. Unfortunately, this ethical aspect of our society has failed too many times in the trial. We have already taken seriously, at the previous consideration of this same law, the fact that this law is simply supported, avoided this painful debate, where the opposition at the head of the SDS, of course, takes advantage of this appropriate possibility, and on the cross, impales the man who has, as far as I know, and as far as the candidates of this law are concerned, the party card of my party. That would be the most elegant. In this way, we are actually rejecting the debate and I would not have any problem with it if I believed that this law was saving something. But this marriage doesn't save anything. Mr Vizjak spoke wisely about this earlier, after we had already objected to such an approach at the December session and demonstrated that if there is no silent society, there will be a civil law institution of contract law, where we can write anything down in a very free and practical way. But the diction of Article 6 that you propose in response to these options means, in fact, that an entity will have to enter in a court register every single loan relationship. The company will go to the bank, get some credit, and according to the provisions of this law you are proposing, this company will have to enter into a court register because it creates some legal business that is of this kind. Is that the point? But realistically, do you want to achieve that? I don't think so. I want to say the opportunities that we have today in existing legislation, which we are poorly implementing, we have. First time. The Company Act is already sanctioning the irresponsible behaviour of both owners, members of supervisory authorities and managers for conduct that harms the company that is at the expense of the company. And we already have every opportunity within these relations to sanction, prosecute and condemn these behaviours as a society. In the criminal code, we also define this as a criminal offence, the 240th Article of the Penal Code, which speaks of the abuse and injury of society, with a view to obtaining property benefits, as a criminal offence. We've got it covered. And last but not least, the Government, I think, in a much more appropriate way, the phenomenon in which you have warned, and I personally respect it, has reacted by means of a bill which gives a commitment to a man who has some confidence in the management of an economic society, that any cooperation in such or other contractual forms, not only in silent societies, but in a practically open set of contractual forms, must indicate to the supervisory authorities of a society whose trust is enjoyed in the management of a society. Whether it's a state-owned or private company. You know, you'll say, "Yeah, what if they don't"? If we build the system on logic, what if, and try to define in the law all the possibilities of "if," we'll always get away with some kind of "if." I suggest another way. To try to strengthen trust in integrity first between us. Because this is not the last place where the valuable face of this nation begins and we are trying to build confidence in the rule of law, and we are demanding the institutions of this rule of law to act fully. I am convinced that in this area we are achieving significant movements, for the better, and this is shown by statistics. But I'm sure we all want an even more effective rule of law together. [[advertising from the hall]] She's kidding, yes, dear Eva, she's kidding. You're kidding me because you're always creating a circus from the National Assembly! And do not let go of any opportunity to try not to show those who are on the other side of this hall as virtually the bastards themselves. I'm not a bastard and I'm not kidding. I'm very serious about what I'm saying. There are deviations in every society, one or another. And why do we always have to be unique to invent some of our own recipes? Because we're a transit country? A lot of countries are in transition. In this changing world, all countries of the world are in transition. We have our own legacies that have marked us, which today are weakening our knees, which in many ways create a reason for us to be in as deep a shit as we are. Here you can continue to discuss how she is responsible and responsible only for the ineffective government of Borut Pahor. And blind yourselves because the reasons are, unfortunately, much deeper. If the only recipe for the country's solution was that the Borut Pahor government should be replaced, I would be among those who would be in favour of this change. But this is not a solution because the reasons for our situation are much deeper. Among other reasons is this low political culture in this Chamber, which seeks only to overcome each other, to compete for public confidence, as if it were the essence of politics. The essence of policy should be that we are looking for real solutions to the real problems of this country. And when we are able to do so, percentages up or down, Mr Tanko, then we will be trustworthy. Not as one or the other politics, but as the National Assembly, as a symbol, as the seat of democracy! In the meantime, I wish you good luck in your continued witch hunt. All you're trying to achieve with this and similar laws is that – hunting witches and trying to make an impression in this society, that we're all bastards, that the trust institute has failed, that the only solution for this country is John Janša and his 50 plus, even if it will gain them [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] How? Yes, even if he will gain them by lying, forging and repeatedly proving that everyone else is responsible for the problems of this society, and he is the only saving solution. Responsible policy is also capable of some minor self-reflection. Admitting mistakes, admit inefficiency. And for the government that I support, and which I have chosen with my vote, I confess a lot of these things, and you know that. But as long as I have a choice, sometimes the inefficient government of Borut Pahor, or the power of a fraud and a liar, I will always choose the first option.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, including those of you who are in charge of this meeting, would expect more integrity. We're not talking about 50 plus in the debate on the Company Act, but I know that you're very upset, we're not talking about Janez Janša, and I know you have a thorn in your heel. We're talking about the things that are in this country's heel. Speaking of integrity, a few months ago, it came to the public that there were a thousand 400 corruption reports at an office, a thousand 400 reports of corruption. Not one of the government's sides ever shaved on that. For four years, five years, things have stood in some closet at some office, reporting suspicions of corruption, but no one has responded. Even more. You changed the law. You who put integrity on the table. You changed the law, abolished the National Assembly, which demanded that this be reported to the National Assembly and legalised the situation. You did it. It would be good for the chair to draw attention to those, including those from his parliamentary group, who are talking about things that have absolutely nothing to do with the agenda. There are many among you who have been involved in various matters, even though you are young, many. If not directly, but indirectly because you pressed the button and accepted a solution because you were taking a solution with a legal void. In the last two months alone, we have changed laws three times over legal voids. Deliberately, accidentally or because you're so judgmental and far-reaching, because you have such a developed intellectual potential that you know what's going to happen and why you need it. It happened at least three times. And look at the debates under those laws where it happened. It is difficult to teach someone if you are completely different. What lies have proved to be the case, for example, in the case of Patrio, when you boycott the work of the commission of inquiry, has proved to be the statements of your Member of the Committee of the Regions, who has progressed to the European institution, what conflicts of interest are, has proved to be with Mr Squeak and so on. And you're boycotting all of this just to make sure nothing gets out. And this law belongs in this category. The boycott of solutions means the legalization of what you're going to do and what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We all, including Mr Tanko, know that this was not a procedural proposal. Besides, you know, I've only been running this session for 20 minutes, and as far as I've been listening, every single one of you who's discussed it has been over the law. That's what your debate was like. It's just our way of doing things. And if anyone who says one word past the law were to break up, then there would be no debate at all. Would you like to discuss it, Madam Secretary? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the motioner, Mr. Andrej Vizjak? No, no, no. We have concluded our debate. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. Please, whoever wants to report their debate. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies submitted by members of the opposition for reasons that are very clear in the Government's explanation, as well as in the opinions of some legal experts accompanying this legislation, so that the deletion of provisions governing silent companies in the Company Act does not prevent any further conclusion of contracts to invest their capital in a company. The result of the adoption of this law would be that no law would regulate this relationship at all and that everything would run somehow on the basis of a bond law allowing such contracts to be concluded. And since it is in the case of a silent participant that he expects, in particular, a return on the funds invested from that company, it is very necessary or very urgent for us to write in this company law the consequences and obligations of that silent partner in the event of the bankruptcy or termination of that company in which he invested the money. And if these provisions are deleted, then the legal certainty of all creditors requiring claims from a company, such as bankruptcy, is actually reduced. This marriage is really very bad because it reduces the rights of creditors. This law, which is currently in force, clearly states that if, for example, the bankruptcy manager paid all the contributions that someone has invested in this company, such a procedure would be repealed. And if this provision is lifted, and your bill is repealed, the rights of creditors will be substantially, substantially smaller than they are at this stage. It is true, however, that at a time when the capital interest prevails, it is necessary to clear above all the possible conflicts that may arise as a result of the fact that someone who owns one company invests their capital in another and these links can sometimes be harmful. That is why the Government is also preparing a new law that will further regulate this situation and further regulate it. And that's what the government's explanation says about this law, why it doesn't support this law. I must admit that when I read all these explanations myself, they are understandable to me, so I will not support this law you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. First, in view of one of the previous discussions, it should be said that the solution to Article 6 is different, as Mr Frangež said. A fellow Member read only half the sentence. The other half, which explains the first part of the sentence, simply forgot to say or did not want to say. It says, for example, in the second paragraph of Article 6, "it is necessary to register any legal transaction and to attach to the application acts by which a person with an asset's investment in someone else is entitled to participate in his or her profits". The gentleman didn't read it because he's manipulating, he's young, but he's learned a lot in this coalition. The third paragraph says, "for entry into the register, every contractual relationship must be declared and acts amended or regulated between the parties and between the parties and society should be annexed." Completely specified as to which cases these matters relate and any legal business not regulated in this way is simply null and void. Now I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. In my questions, I have repeatedly asked this Government, with which companies in the majority of state-owned or predominantly state-owned enterprises operate, say the Senica law firm, before this mandate and in this mandate. Do you think I got the answer? I've asked you four times. Similarly, I asked about certain relationships relating to another company — Ultra. Four times. I didn't get an answer. And now you're here explaining to me the representatives of the government and the coalition how things are going to be arranged differently in cases where it's a matter of getting to know a silent partner to get to know his own supervisory council. But in some cases, or in larger cases, there are actually connected owners, directors, managers and their supervisors in the same law firm further. Who will inform someone, because there is no need, even if, who knows, who are the ones who receive such information.If there is no disclosure, there is no action, there is nothing that can be done. And in these cases, brought by government law, these disclosures will not occur because you are doing everything you can to keep all the information in a closed conflict circle. The government proposal you have drawn up is that everything remains in a closed cycle of management, state-owned companies or majority state-owned property or private and their supervisors. Not the congregations, the congregation is the owner and will not even be informed. If we ask those who ask the congregation, in these cases it is, for example, a government that plays the role of the congregation, it is ignorant, it is not interested, read the answers to the questions asked by the Members, it is not interested. Even in cases where the State is the majority owner, it is not interested. We're asking for cases, I don't know, the National Investigation Office, we're asking about the case of the Hypo Bank, which is a private bank, a foreign bank, nobody knows anything, nobody wants to know anything. We ask whether in these cases it is a conflict because the Minister of the Interior, under article 2a of the Police Act, directs the work of the police – is not in conflict. On the other hand, we read which law offices arranged these transactions — not in conflict. And there's something else that could happen in these cases. And do not blind the Slovenian public, you will reject this law and propose yours only because you are forced to do so and because you are buying time to continue doing all these business. Just like you've done so far. And none of the young, puffed-up Members have yet to be shaved. I am reading Members' questions, and no one has asked that question, has proposed a meeting of the National Assembly or a working body on the subject. You don't care. Pure and innocent and beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, I find you've been discussing outside the agenda. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As I said in the opening statement, I will not support the law. In particular, because we have dealt with this law once before, as it was submitted in December last year, and we have also rejected it. Even then, we have made it clear that, despite some of the weaknesses of the Institute of Silent Companies, its elimination represents an even greater potential for abuse or even more hidden damage to corporate creditors. And even today, it has been repeatedly said that there is already a new law in the procedure, which I think will better address this issue of silent societies, so we will reject the law. But I wouldn't want to talk only about the law, talk about what my predecessor was talking about, although procedurally, what all our sides and my colleague are saying, he came right back and talked about everything, and almost nothing about the law. And I think if we have a marriage, we're talking about marriage, so I don't have to argue too much with it. I'll refuse the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u56	The debate is very broad, so I think it is only right that, at the edge of this debate, all those political believers who, after the good two years of inefficiency of this government, still believe that it is possible to pull Slovenia out of the crisis in the way Borut does in some train joke when the train stops and tells passengers to step out and the train blinks, that the fiction will be created to move forward [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u57	Mr Černač, if you are talking about the President of the Government in this way, give him a title, because that is a minimum of decency that you do not have.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u58	I was talking about Borut from some joke about a standing train that wanted to create a fiction that the train was moving by telling the passenger to get off and shake the train. That's why I repeated that you saw what I was talking about, Mr President. So it is not possible to create effective governance with fictions, decisions, concrete measures, timely decisions must be taken, because many times decisions taken too late are even worse than those that are not at all. And one of the decisions that would be good to make last year, when it was first proposed, December of the month, is also the amendment to the law governing the operation of so-called silent companies. The government's opinion is also based on a submenu that this institute is being abolished. Today, several times by the representative of the proposer, Mr Viszak, it has been said that it is not prohibited, that the law regulates the disclosure of these companies and the failure of the institute if this disclosure does not occur. On 17 February this year, the Government adopted a decision on recommendations on silent companies. Why, if everything's really okay with this area? Why was it necessary to adopt a decision that addresses this area in a loving, minimalist manner? However, it requires the Capital Investment Management Agency to disclose this interrelationship in the relations governed by this agency. But that's not enough. The problem is not only in the part where the State is a majority or a minority or any owner, but mainly in the part where these state-owned enterprises and administrations of state-owned enterprises enter into a concrete contractual relationship with wholly private companies and have silent partners or silent participants. And apparently, Mr Danilo of the Social Democrats is not the only case. He's not the only one! Apparently, these cases are huge. So much so that the government is afraid to adopt an appropriate regulatory framework that would reveal these relations. Whose interest is it that this law and this novel are not adopted? Is this in the interest of the state?Oh, my God! Is this in the interest of taxpayers?Oh, my God! Whose interest is it not to accept that these relationships are revealed? It is only a matter of disclosing these relations, which are now not disclosed under the existing regime. Those Libyans who wanted to invest 30 million euros, as was said in the previous debate, in Grep to complete the Contingencies have nothing to do with this. They will invest these funds in any case or now they will no longer be, but if they had an interest, they would submit them under such provisions as we propose, at the time of disclosure or at the time of undisclosed disclosure. They would primarily invest in a project in which they believe, where they do not want to actively manage, but they want to invest some funds that are free to have some equivalent, profit and so on. That is to say, for the first time in December, the government and the ruling coalition are protecting, as shown this second time, is rejecting a new law that is in the best interest of all. And we, too, in this debate today, not by the Minister, nor by any of the ruling Members, have heard a word about what are the relations that could be harmful to individual companies and countries if this novelty were to be enforced. We haven't heard a single case about it. We are once again hearing about Mr Danil of the Social Democrats, who has been the president of one of the largest state-owned companies for 20 years, and who owns a share in a quiet society, but we do not hear any other specific case that would have spoken of this novel being established, or making the business of individual companies worse or making it impossible for individual companies to continue to function and exist where that manna or deficit would have been if this novel were accepted. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answer, which is why your arguments don't convince us. It's obviously about protecting individual relationships, which is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u59	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. We're on our way to 11. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on personal property, within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the State Secretary of Mags. Damian Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u60	Dear Mr President, honourable Members! The main purpose of the proposal for a law on identity card is to lay down provisions relating to the right to issue an electronic identity card under the applicable legislation. The electronic identity card was introduced into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the latest amendment of the current law on the ID card, but in practice, due to the price inadmissibility of the production of new identity cards, it has not come to light. The definition of these provisions is reasonable and also necessary in terms of the principle of proportionality, which allows for the processing of such personal data as are appropriate and necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate purpose as well as in terms of the constitutional protection of personal data. In view of the large number of provisions relating to the issue of an electronic identity card, we have approached the drafting of a new law, not amendments and additions to the existing law. Other innovations brought by the proposal for a new law include the possibility of issuing a ID card and the indication of a missing ID card at the diplomatic office and consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, as is the case with the issue of a passport from June 2008. Currently, citizens, with permanent residence abroad, can apply for the issue of a ID card only in an administrative unit in the Republic of Slovenia and the new regime will bring the service closer to foreign citizens. Since the ID card is a practical travel document and is cheaper than the passport, it means a change in the essential acquisition for Slovenian citizens abroad. However, this option will continue in 2013, as appropriate technical support is needed to do so. Another important novelty is the possibility of obtaining a permanent identity card after the age of 70, which is an essential advantage for older citizens who, due to illness or reduced mobility, cannot reach the competent authority. The new law also provides for the possibility of the service of a manufactured identity card to the manufacturer, which makes it possible for the business of the administrative unit and the logistics of the operation of the mail to no longer constitute an obstacle to the rapid service of the document, where necessary. Finally, the new law also regulates the coherence of records with consistent respect for and compliance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, while the provisions of the Act are consistent with the comparable scope of the issuance of travel documents. For today's meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group was re- tabled at Article 7, on the basis of which a bilingual identity card would be issued to a national resident in an area where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, by any administrative unit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 65 that indigenous, Hungarian and Italian national communities as minority communities in the Republic of Slovenia enjoy special collective rights in the areas where these communities live. Therefore, they can exercise their special rights only in these areas, and the State is obliged to ensure them by its active conduct. Furthermore, Article 11 of the Constitution provides that the official language of Slovenia is Slovenian, as well as Italian and Hungarian in the areas of the national communities. That provision is further elaborated in Article 4 of the State Administration Act and Article 62 of the General Administrative Procedure Act laying down the language in the procedure. Last but not least, the solutions proposed are not valid for the issue of other comparable documents, such as a passport or a driving licence, nor for the issue of other documents and certificates. The government, as a bill-maker, considers that the solutions provided by the new law on the ID card are appropriate, and proposes that honourable Members and Members be supported by the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u61	The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as the parent working body, considered the proposal of the law. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 28th meeting, on 10 February 2011, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the draft law on the ID card submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for National Arrangements, the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality, the opinion of the Hungarian National Self-Governmental Community and the opinion of the Izola Municipality, the Italian Nationality Commission. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the proposer who said in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law retains most of the provisions of the applicable law on the ID card, but no longer provides for the issue of identity cards with a qualified digital certificate for the management of electronic services and the enforcement of healthcare and health insurance services. The public procurement for the selection of an electronic identity card manufacturer failed in 2008 while waiting for the adoption of uniform guidelines for a European identity card at the level of the European Union. The bill also provides for the possibility of issuing a ID card and the indication of a missing ID card at the diplomatic office and consulate. Certain definitions of the applicant have already been presented by the Secretary of State participating in today's meeting and I will not repeat them. The committee's proposer supported the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, but not the other amendments tabled. At that time, we also discussed the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Community Group, which, according to the proposaler, was unconstitutional or would have had such consequences. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 and did not vote on the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities and the SDS Group of Ambassadors as they became irrelevant by the adoption of the amendments to the coalition. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u64	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State! This is a national identification document for full-year citizens, minors and children up to three years of age. The identity card is therefore a means of demonstrating the identity of the nationality, travel document and legal representation document. In 2005, a new law on the ID card was adopted to harmonise criminal provisions with the Offences Act. In 2008, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Cards was adopted with the aim of adding an electronic medium with a qualified digital certificate to the services set up by the so-called eGovernment and extending the possibility of using a ID card for the enforcement of health services. In the draft law, the proposer shall endeavour to ensure the clarity of the law by eliminating provisions relating to the issue of an electronic identity card to the faster possibility of serving a identity card in urgent cases and to the elderly of a valid permanent identification document and by reducing the number of persons who do not have an identification document. While the law retains most of the provisions of the old law, except in that part relating to a qualified digital certificate for the provision of electronic healthcare and insurance services. Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence abroad will be issued with the same valid ID card as citizens with permanent residence in Slovenia. It seems to us that it is possible to use the photograph used for the identification document even when it comes to the issue of the passport. The permanent validity of the identity card after the age of 70 is certainly a good decision, as it often happens that a person cannot reach the authority which issues the document for health reasons. The applicant explains that it will also be possible to obtain a personal document at diplomatic-consular offices after a new one. As we see, it is a document with which it can travel to 33 countries and that it is still interesting for third-world citizens. Therefore, the production of the document and the storage of blank forms in terms of transparency and alienation is one of the most important measures to protect against alienation and falsification. The law brings a number of improvements, so we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Friends and colleagues, hello! And the Secretary of State with the co-worker! The existing Personal Card Act, which was last amended in 2008, provided for citizens and citizens to be offered the possibility of obtaining a ID card with an electronic medium, a chip, with a qualified digital certificate, the utility of which, in addition to the set of eGovernment services, would also allow the use of a personal card for the implementation of health services. The basic prerequisite for implementing the amendment of the 2008 Law on Personal Card was the selection of the contractor with the execution of the contract to ensure the production of identity cards in accordance with the tendering conditions. Two formal complete tenders have arrived at the invitation and the contracting authority, after examining the tenders, has declared them unacceptable, taking into account the principle of economy, efficiency and efficiency of the use of public funds, as the price for the ordinary identity card would increase by 71.5%, which is unacceptable in terms of citizens and citizens. The repetition of the contract in unaltered legal matters was not meaningful, so we agree in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the decision of the Ministry of the Interior, which, taking into account the principle of good governance with public funds and the effective implementation of the public service for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, decided to complete the revision of the Law on ID card. We believe that the draft law introduces good solutions that will contribute to greater clarity in the legal provisions on the issue and use of personal data, to a more friendly and faster process for the service of identity cards for all citizens, and to the introduction of permanent identity cards for persons after 70 years of age, contributing to the elimination of problems with the extension of the validity of the ID card in the elderly. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware of developments in the provision of digital services, and we believe that the country and its authorities should not be lagging behind other sectors in developing e-services, so we support the proposaler's intention to make appropriate legislative changes in this area, taking into account the common guidelines for the European ID card, which is being prepared at European Union level. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the law because of meaningful and effective solutions, but we will not support the amendment tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the MP Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u68	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! The Personal Card Act, which was implemented in December 1997 and has been in force since summer 1998, introduced a ID card on the polycarbonate cards with laser-written personal data, photo and signature of the holder. In 2005, a new law was adopted to harmonise criminal provisions with the Offences Act. The new law also abolished the local authority to issue a ID card, which could then be issued anywhere in the country and the method of service was changed. In 2008, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ID Cards, which provided for the issue of an electronic identity card with a qualified digital certificate, was re-adopted. In spite of the well-intentioned attempt to introduce an electronic identity card due to the failure of the invitation to tender and the overpriced price, the bill before us no longer provides for such a ID card. A number of other innovations required the preparation of a new law with the following objectives: deleting the provisions on electronic identity cards, the possibility of issuing a card at a diplomatic or consulate abroad, obtaining a document with a life-long validity after 70 years of age, the possibility of delivering a personal card to an economic company which it manufactures, of course, only in emergency cases, the regulation of the consistency of records and the harmonisation of the provisions with the Travel Documents Act. The main solutions to the law follow fully the announced objectives, while at the same time the proposer does not predict any major financial implications for the budget. If necessary, they will be provided from existing funds at the Ministry. The law has been duly amended and awarded in the process of adoption by the Committee on Internal Policy and has brought important benefits to citizens and will be supported by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a bill on identity cards in terms of the amended content that was undoubtedly necessary. With regard to the provisions relating to the issuance of the said document, national mixed areas are not subject to substantial novelties, but there are some inconsistencies in this regard. The position of the Government, presented a little earlier by the Secretary of State, touches on this issue in some unilateral context, which, according to our view, is very controversial from a constitutional point of view. Although we have had some discussions with the Ministry of the Interior on the text of the bill, we have clarified a number of uncertainties in these contexts. The proposal was also discussed by the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly. Our position on the question of who are actually intended for bilingual or in the case of national mixed areas of a tripartite identity card or documents was crystallized in the stage of the thorough debate on the marriage proposal. Some self-governing national communities, such as the insular municipal and coastal communities, have dealt particularly with this content. In the spirit of the actual application of external bilinguality, we have already tabled an amendment at the meeting of the parent committee, but because of the complementary coalition amendment, which has slightly redrafted the entire text of Article 7 of the bill, our amendment became irrelevant at that time. It became immaterial only for formal reasons, but certainly not for substantive reasons. Therefore, on the proposed text of the second reading of the law, we have re- tabled an amendment to Article 7 proposing the deletion of paragraph 4 of this Article. In the substantive sense, it is an amendment which allows a bilingual ID card to be obtained by any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who has a permanent residence in a national mixed area, irrespective of the place of application for a personal document. The second paragraph of the same Article provides that a citizen with a registered permanent residence in an area determined by law, i.e. in a national mixed area where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live, shall be issued a personal card in a form printed in Slovenian, English and Italian or Slovenian, English and Hungarian. The possibility of electronic integration of administrative units undoubtedly makes this possible in technical terms. If the fourth paragraph remains in the text of the law, this in fact also means the possibility of avoiding documents where the information is also given in the language of indigenous national communities, which in our view is not in the spirit of coexistence in a particular area. I believe that we must assume that the specifics, such as language, culture and other characteristics of indigenous national communities, are indeed the wealth of the national mixed area, which is the common value of all those living in the area. Therefore, the area is different and in a positive sense different from the one-language areas, external bilinguality can in fact only be applied if it is accepted by all historically conditioned ethnically mixed areas and not only by members of national communities. It is therefore a matter of realizing that the characteristics of the bilingual area, which undoubtedly includes external bilingualism and, in this context, personal documents, constitute an added value for all citizens in the national mixed area both in Prekmurje and in the coast, which does not need to be avoided. On the contrary, it must be interpreted in the broadest positive dimension. It would make sense that negative 20th-century stereotypes, which have been conditioned by such or other historical circumstances, should be abandoned in our everyday solutions and should approach the creation of a mile where multiculturalism and multilingualism are in fact a common positive value, not just the right or duty of the indigenous national community. I therefore ask this High Council to address our amendment from a broader perspective, primarily in terms of understanding the importance of the national mixed area as a whole, and to decide in the spirit of the 21st century's solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Kikelj will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The personal ID card in Slovenia is not only a document proving identity and citizenship or a document we need to perform in legal traffic. A series of years is already a document with which we can travel and visit 35 countries at this time. The second major amendment and the addition of the Personal Card Act in 2008 should also include data on health services and health insurance as well as an additional chip with a qualified digital signature. With this novel, the ID would also take over the health card function. Such an expansion of the function of the ID card we then opposed in the Group of Social Democrats, and that is why we now support this abolition. We believe that the accumulation of personal data in one place is not necessarily good, because information technology itself allows the illegal acquisition of individual personal data and the abuse of personal data. The news presented by the bill on the ID card and supported by the Group of Social Democrats is also aimed at allowing Slovenian diplomatic representatives and consulates to issue a ID card or to accept notices of a missing ID card and to issue a permanent ID card to citizens after the age of 70. The bill states that it is in practice to note that the elderly often do not have a valid identification document. We also support solutions that, in exceptional and urgent cases, will enable the issuing of a identity card to be made available to the manufacturer, and that, for the purposes of issuing a identity card, they will arrange and link the records on the basis of which data from the applicant are verified on the application for the issuing of a ID card and will allow for the issuance of the document as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to point out that the institutions dealing with the protection of personal data have pointed out that the number of places of identity has been increasing lately. Members of the Social Democrats would like to point out here all citizens and citizens as well as the administrators of personal data databases to treat personal documents and data carefully and in accordance with the applicable legislation and guidelines for preventing the theft of identity which they have already prepared with the information officer. To conclude, once again, Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a new law on ID card. The new bill retains the majority of the provisions of the existing law on the ID card, but no longer provides for the issue of identity cards with a qualified digital certificate for the provision of electronic services and the provision of healthcare and health insurance services. The deletion of the mentioned optional issue of an electronic identity card is justified by the applicant’s failure to obtain a contract to select an electronic identity card manufacturer. However, interestingly, at the same time, the applicant points out that it is appropriate to wait for the adoption of uniform guidelines for a European card at the level of the European Union. With regard to this deletion of the optional issue of the electronic identity card, we are asking in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party the reasons for this deletion. We believe that the possibility of a single document combining both a personal card and a health card was a practical, modern solution and extended the possibility of e-government. Such a solution, which meant unification, especially at a time when we have more and more such and different cards, was certainly a much more user-friendly solution. Such uncritical solutions, which remove the possibility of electronic identity card optional issues, are therefore not supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but we welcome the solutions that simplify the service of identity cards. The law on the ID card provides for the issuance of identity cards to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence abroad, which, in our opinion, makes sense, on the fact that the identity card has also been greatly acquired in recent years in its travel function. A personal card abroad will be issued with the same validity as a personal card to a citizen resident in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also provides for the possibility of issuing a ID card and the indication of a missing ID card at the diplomatic-consular office and the Consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. The bill also provides for the possibility of obtaining a permanent identity card after the age of 70. Of course, we support all of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but at the same time we stress that the concept of removing administrative barriers should be followed mainly in the areas of applications, completion of forms, completion of forms and issuance of identity cards. The unnecessary obstacles thus occur most often in the service of personal documents. Otherwise, as has already been said, we will not oppose the proposal of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Slovenske Zares, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, other present, nice greeting. As has already been said, there are reasons for the new law on the identity card, which is before us today, quite a few things. The 2008 Personal Card Act laid down the legal basis for the issue of an electronic identity card and the invitation to tender was carried out on the basis of which it was found that the estimated value of the contract was too high and the Ministry’s management decided not to continue the project. The new Ministry leadership has therefore been in a situation where a number of provisions have to be deleted and it is precisely because of extensive changes and additions today that we are considering a completely new law. Among the innovations that have already been mentioned, and which are certainly welcome, is that from now on ID cards can also be issued at diplomatic and consular representations. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the ID card has also become a travel document for many countries and it is therefore reasonable and logical to allow the issue of identity cards to be issued at diplomatic and consular offices for our citizens staying abroad. Citizens and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, after the age of 70, as already mentioned, are allowed to issue a permanent identity card by this law. Delivery of the document itself will be possible from now on also with the identity card manufacturer when made in an emergency. This will shorten the path for those citizens who will find themselves in a situation where they will need a ID card quickly and urgently. The opinion on the bill was also put forward by the self-governing national communities and highlighted, as it has already been said, that the proposal for a law does not guarantee the full implementation of the constitutional provision in the formality of the Italian or Hungarian language in the areas where the national communities live. On the basis of the opinions of the legislative and legal services, both governmental and national constituency, in the Group of Members, we really believe that the regulation is appropriate and that perhaps just a change of article as proposed could make the provision unconstitutional. However, we can agree with the view that this is not in the good-neighbourly spirit that should be encouraged. Of course, in some personal decisions of individuals, I do not think that the state is the one that should make them more patient if I say so. I think we'd go too far here in law enforcement if we decided to support the proposed amendment. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that the bill is primarily in the direction of easier access to the ID card, because we often find ourselves in a situation where we urgently need a document as soon as possible and that the proposal makes it possible. For all of this we will support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on the ID card does not bring about very radical changes, but it does go in the direction of rationalisation and simplification of procedures, which is why it has the support of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. A more appropriate solution to those unforeseeable events abroad, in which the whole process or part of the process of issuing the identity card is to be carried out, from the submission of the application to the production and service of the document itself as soon as possible, was urgently needed. The possibility of serving a ID card to an economic company authorised to produce and personalise identity cards is commendable as soon as it is produced and shows how information technology can be used only if the will to introduce more advanced procedures is demonstrated. The possibility of issuing a ID card and indicating the missing ID card at the diplomatic office and consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, as is the case for issuing a passport, is another practical solution. The service is now often an unnecessary obstacle and a waste of time for citizens who are abroad and who are unexpectedly in trouble with documents. Also, the issue of sustainable identity cards for persons after the age of 70 is a solution that we have recently introduced in passports. This is a practice that has also proved appropriate abroad, and in particular saves older citizens multiple jobs in paperwork. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret, in our opinion, the unnecessary complication of the issue of identity cards for citizens in bilingual areas or areas determined by the law where indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live. We do not see any obstacle that all with permanent residence in these areas, by law, cannot exercise their basic right to a ID card in Slovenian and Hungarian or Italian in all administrative units throughout Slovenia, as other citizens and citizens of our country can do. After all, it is the same information central site as the same card manufacturer. For this reason, we will support the amendment of the Group of Peoples of the People's Communities. However, the support of the Slovenian People's Party Group also has the law, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! A personal card is a public document by which a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia proves his identity and nationality. It may also be used to cross the border under certain conditions. The most recent amendments to the law governing this public document also referred to the inclusion of a qualified digital certificate on a personal ID card and the use of a ID card for the enforcement of healthcare and health insurance services. The first expansion of the use of the ID card made sense because of the increasing supply of eGovernment services it is practical to include a qualified digital certificate on the ID card, allowing citizens of the Republic of Slovenia easier access to eGovernment services, but it is worth noting that eGovernment citizens do not use eGovernment services very often, not even the older generation. The second extension – the use of a ID card also for the purposes of the implementation of healthcare and health insurance services – also represents the inclusion of all data for the management of health services on the ID card. The intended use for a visit to a doctor and in a pharmacy is questionable in terms of the protection of the privacy of individuals and even sensitive data processed in the field of healthcare and health insurance. With regard to the latter, the DeSUS Group was extremely skeptical in its previous mandate. Today, we have before us a proposal for a new law on identity cards just because it has in practice been stuck in the issue of an electronic identity card with a qualified digital certificate. The result of the contract for the execution of this service or goods showed that the estimated value of the contract, taking into account the principle of efficiency, efficiency and efficiency of the use of public funds, is not appropriate or acceptable, since in the case of the production of electronic identity cards it is for 71,5 % of the increase. Such an increase is simply unacceptable in these times. Thus, Members of DeSUS will unanimously support the proposal for a law that excludes from the current law on the ID card those provisions that are practically not applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles. The amendment is only tabled under Article 7, on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group of Ambassadors. So I am putting Article 7 with the amendment to the debate. Mr. Goncz, please.’
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will try to clarify certain things again or, above all, to explain the reasons why it would be important for our amendment to be adopted. For the first time, let me respond to a presentation of the Government's position by the Secretary of State, who simply said that rights, including those relating to the use of bilingual documents, are linked to the national mixed area. Indeed it is, and it is true, but we do not dispute this provision, nor do we extend justice from this point of view. In particular, we stress that rights apply to the national mixed area as such, to everyone living there; to the Slovenians, Hungary and to the Italians, if they live in that area. It is only to avoid evasiveness when a person is asked to obtain a bilingual document because, unfortunately, if we are honest, this allows for a provision without our amendment being adopted. Therefore, it allows applications for a single-language document to be submitted outside the national mixed area. This is, in a sense, a limitation of the right not only of members of national communities but of all inhabitants of the national mixed area. So it allows manipulation. This is not the case with our proposal or with the present second paragraph of Article 7 because it clearly states that the provision applies to all inhabitants of the national mixed area. Therefore, Article 4 is unnecessary, according to our opinion, and it introduces a de facto situation that reduces, but does not extend, the rights of the national community. These national communities are exclusively linked to residents who have permanent residence in the national mixed area. So it's not about the other residents. It's not about any other residents. However, both the technical and the formal possibility of applying for bilingual forms or documents in other administrative units is possible. That's one thing. And the other thing. The Secretary of State also mentioned practice, a practice which does not apply to other documents. I believe that if we are actually approaching the modernisation of the whole system, then we must first and foremost come from some positive values for the future. If some negative stereotypes in the past were to be present from this point of view, they should be upgraded in this sense that they will no longer be. If our amendment is not adopted, it will actually be possible for residents in the national mixed area with permanent residence to have double documents; and this will lead to a conflict, whether or not. Those who refer to the fact that we live in Slovenia do so. But those who live in this area, we have to take this area with some positive sound, like a specific area that means something more to all of us and not a little less. What was a little less — that was what I was talking about especially when I was talking about negative 20th - century stereotypes. This should actually mean something more to everyone, and from this point of view, I think it would be extremely important for our amendment to be accepted. For the third time, I would like to point out that there is no question of extending the rights. By no means is the transfer of rights outside the national mixed area — quite the opposite! And finally, just from the point of view of every resident anywhere in Slovenia. So in Slovenia, the person can apply for a ID card or a request anywhere. However, if this remains as is now proposed by the proposer, this will not be the case, since those who wish to have a national mixed document, pardon, but a two-letter document, will not be able to submit this in fact or formally to any administrative unit. In short, we, with the best intention and in particular with a positive appreciation of the national mixed area as such in terms of the entire population, everyone living there, propose a serious consideration of our amendment and not just a pattern of rejection for some principled, flat-rate reasons. For we are substantively convinced that our request is legitimate and constitutional and I emphasise: constitutionally sustainable. And the constitutional aspect is very important to me in this matter, and I am sure that this action would undoubtedly be an upgrade from this point of view in the adoption of a new ID card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u84	In the past, we have dealt very hard with the issue of the identity card and great progress has been made and the fact that today, in the national mixed area, it is possible to obtain a identity card in two languages, or it is also commanded for the majority people that they must also have a passport in the national language, seems only right. However, we should also listen to what Mr Göncz is talking about. It seems to me that at this time this would be a surplus, would be an added value and if it is a technical option, but I think that it is to be submitted anywhere in any administrative unit this requirement – how it is checked, how it is done then, I do not know because this is an expert question, but if it is possible, what government representatives certainly know, not in the part where we are talking about a nationalist in the administrative unit not wanting to understand or want to do some things. I don't know if this also entails compulsory knowledge and use of one or both languages in this case, because we could come to an administrative unit, say Celje, both Italian and Hungarian national communities, with a request to apply there. As it is said, if this is possible at technical level, then I see no reason why this should not be taken into account and would be taken into account by the amendments of the Members of the national communities or the Group of National Communities, as things are changing and moving forward; some technical possibilities are also improving, which allow much more than they have in the past. I was positively surprised last year when, for example, I found in the municipality of Trbiz on the Italian party that they issue identity cards in four languages, i.e. in Italian, Slovenian, German and even in Tyrol, or in Furlan for some part of a minority who lives there. But no big deal. Years ago it was impossible to obtain a ID card in the Slovenian language as well. Therefore, it seems to me that if the technical aspect, let's say, of this investment makes it possible, then I would certainly support this amendment if, in my opinion, I cannot understand that it is something less, so that it is something that would make it difficult or give members of the national community something more, but it is actually a gesture which at this time of democratic development of Slovenia can only be positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The basic constitutional charter on which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is based is paragraph. The fundamental constitutional charter is not a long document, but it is extremely important. One of the paragraphs says that the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the new country were granted the position that the national communities had enjoyed until that time. Let me just say that, for example, the forecast of time on the phone was bilingual at the time. All the events were bilingual, all the documents were bilingual. I have a record in my closet about 30 centimeters high when the first identity card law was passed, when it took more than a year to prove that they had ever been in the national mixed area of a bilingual identity card. Even the then head of the administrative unit denied it. They prepared him to deny that he did. The fact that the Slovenians, their mayors, are bilingual, completely bilingual, or completely Slovenian on the Italian side, is also the fact that six municipalities are borderline. Most Slovenian, where everything is done in the Slovenian language, from firefighting society to sports associations, to chains of cooperatives, food chain, financial companies, cooperatives are hospitable, craftsmen, are agricultural, of course, from time to time. In short, these mayors have also shown that these ID cards are bilingual on the Italian side. And we barely came to the point that once upon a time it was that the identity cards were bilingual in Cyprus, Isola and Piran in our case, or in Lendava and Prekmurje in the case of the Hungarian national community. In order not to specifically ask for country documents, countries should also be asked for documents in the language of the national community. This story, when identity cards can be made in each administrative unit, undermines this principle in the core, on the basis. This is just one of the steps already underway and the pressures already under way, including the Ankaran municipality, to destroy the term of the national mixed area and to move collective rights exclusively to an individual level, with the request that these people be allowed to reside in a country that exists because of the Slovenians, not because of the citizens – obviously. In short, this is a dangerous precedent! You know, it has recently been established with the Italian Government a body to which representatives of the Slovenian National Community can turn at any moment and from the very beginning also begin to resolve legal matters that concern them directly. We've had such an organ since 1994. The Ministry of the Interior did not consult that authority when drafting the text of the new law on the ID, nor did it discuss with that body before the identity cards and languages to be used and how, in the identity cards. And this is Article 15 of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities, which was broken. Because when we wanted to register companies, they said no, because we have self-government communities. We have managed to register societies and now the self-government communities are treated as if they were societies. And these games are so many, I have so many in my memory and in my own 20-year experiences that I can say that these stories aren't random. It's not random stuff. The number of members of both national communities, as relative as it should not be counted, as to the way in which it is obtained, as far as it does not take into account the dosage of the rights, etc., falls sharply: a quarter of Italians, a quarter of Hungarians less in ten years of such a single Slovenia. And it started to collapse right at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Thus, first of all with such a constitution and legislation goes to the Holy of Europe, etc. No one has ever had anything to argue about how the rights of the national communities are being exercised, what their situation is, etc., because everything on paper is perfect, and now they are starting, as I would say, with the envisaged rights in existing legislation, reforming this, being revised in a negative way for the national communities. So when we have to look for a ID card to join all these organizations, there was one philosophy. Now that this has been done, there is another: and this is not the end. There is no law that would appear in the National Assembly, and for which we would not need to change it in order to maintain what it was. I know this with my ID card pretty well, I know where the objection will be: no, because in the national mixed area it will still be, etc. No, it's not like that! It's not because the mobility is increasing. One student, a member of the Italian National Community, will study in Ljubljana, will have to make a personal ID card because he will have to solve something; for any business, procedure or whatever he needs this document and will only have it in the Slovenian language. Why? Until a little while ago, he had a bilingual one. And the same is true of all those who have a permanent residence there. With the electronics that exist now, and the connections that exist, with the ordered sets, etc., there is no problem that on a form that is bilingual, at least for those who reside in these areas, is printed bilingually as before. And that doesn't cost us anything to understand each other! But if it stays the way it is, that's exactly what I've been describing. Why, who was given this message? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand what my colleagues want with this amendment. But so to dramatize this country if this amendment is not adopted and what will happen and what they will lose, it just doesn't seem right and right. To settle this in a position where they would or would be violating in that country or reducing collective rights and bringing them to personal rights – I do not agree with this. Even sometimes it would be right to say and declare in this House that there is a violation not of personal but of the collective rights enjoyed by Slovenian minorities in both Italy and Hungary. Let's just see what that fundamental collective right around education and language looks like. Our friendly neighbouring country, which does not comply with the protection law adopted 10 years ago, is closing down the Slovenian school. There in Škenj, they sent the children out, because the school is being torn down because they have been promising to rebuild it for years, now provided that Italian children will be in italian as well, or that it will be taught in Italian. Not to mention the disastrous attitude towards the Slovenian language and the minority in Hungary. It's just that it's not that bad, and it's just that it's a little dramatic around this amendment. And it is not true — whether or not — that any collective right will be violated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u89	Anyone else want a word on Article 7? Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I must frankly admit that I may have been overly flattened in the debate on the Committee and in the presentation of the opinion, as my colleague Göncz said. Otherwise, I see that two issues are now being mixed in the debate on this article; one is the way in which minority members could also go elsewhere than in those administrative units that in the area where both national communities live, they could no longer obtain, obtain, order documents, in short, identity cards, and that those residents living in ethnically mixed areas should no longer be allowed to receive a different card than bilingual ones, even if they had ordered it anywhere else in Slovenia. That's why I went to the phone to check because I gave one of the children, accidentally applied it, gave him a business card in Piran, and the kid got an English-Slovenian card like everyone else, because his permanent residence in Ljubljana, Ljubljana is not a national mixed area – so, okay. And I, too, am of the same opinion as my colleague Anderlich, that there are probably technical possibilities for bilingual cards to be issued according to their place of residence. After all, this is the information that is most important on the ID card, apart from personal identity, can be issued on the basis of this permanent residence, which perhaps in today's times of mobility is also a very tightening of the information, because it is not said that a person is actually staying there, but that the rights of the nationalities that are territorially bound are very important without it. I also regret little that, as far as the procedures are concerned, this possibility of ordering a bilingual card somewhere else would be obtained exclusively and only in view of the permanent residence which should be in the national mixed area if we had already missed that train. What we are currently discussing is the continuation of some good practice, in order to say that tolerance and bilinguality are commanded for all, including for those who may disagree with those on an intimate level, but live in ethnically mixed areas. So I must honestly say that I will still have to think about how I am going to vote on the amendment, and I hope that the ministry will also say what and what about this amendment, although this is not exactly the subject of this agenda item and the amendments on the issue, which has also been exposed, in short, of the possibility of obtaining bilingual, ordering, so to say, bilingual cards somewhere else. I understand, of course, that not all administrative units will be able or are not tasked with offering users of national minority officials who know their language, but I suppose that someone who is at a study in Ljubljana, as was the case day, knows enough Slovenian to fill out the form if he wants to make a hook in addition to Slovenia's Italian or bilingual or Hungarian card, he will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres. Look, there's a lot more of you. I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. It grieves me very much that minorities in our country, my country, which I think we are a highly democratic country, that we are a country that respects the rights of all minorities, all people, different thinking, different nationalities, different religious affiliations, that I must listen to or hear the problems that my colleague Battelli has been talking about. But you see, it's happening everywhere; it's happening on the Italian side that our schools are closing down, and it's happening on the Hungarian side that our schools are closing down. Of course, we also learn that schools are closed in Strunjan and Sečovje, even on our side, in Ankara — no. All of these are those negative parties that actually hurt one another or another, or a third nation. And I think it should be avoided on either side. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, I have already said in my opinion that we regret, in our view, the unnecessary complication of the issue of identity cards of citizens in bilingual areas or areas determined by the law where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian nationalities live. We do not see any obstacle that a person with permanent residence in these areas, by law, cannot exercise his basic right to a ID card in Slovenian, Hungarian or Italian in administrative units in Slovenia, as other citizens and citizens of our country can do. We're going to be this amendment, not to say yes, but we're going to support this amendment. And I really want this climate to be positive, because in this way we build respect for each other and I think that in this country we have tried to be respectful and realistic and honest in all relations between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u93	Mr. Roberto Battelli? No, no, no. Mr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much. There's only two things I'd like to say. First time. I didn't exactly understand Mr Rozje because he was turned against me, but because I respect him, I highly respect his opinion, but I think I did not misinterpret him. So I'll be brief. This is a national mixed area. Now, in this law we don't even differentiate the members of one nation or another. We are specifically talking about members of the national mixed area because we claim that the national mixed area is subject to the criteria and is subject to certain specifics, which are the wealth of all of us who live and live there. Therefore, this aspect is extremely important because of the existence of the national community. But in fact, in this law we are speaking explicitly about the inhabitants or the life of the national mixed area, which has a permanent residence in this area. It's the right thing to do. And the other thing. I would not spread the matter in that context, as Mr Pukšič said before me. Undoubtedly there are problems on both sides of the border; and one and the other borders. We are aware of this, and we are trying to do our best to help with such unpleasant questions as little can be done, but the point is that, because of this legal order in force in Slovenia, the solution that we are proposing is, therefore, to delete paragraph 4 of Article 7, so I believe, in accordance with the current practice, in accordance with the constitutional rules and it is indeed right that this is not stereotypically rejected, but at least this possibility that, if there is no technical obstacle to allowing, as is the case with our constitutional provisions, bilinguality in the case of residents, there is a second time when there is a permanent residence in the national mixed area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary Damjan Lah asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Several times it has been mentioned that the solution proposed in the amendment could be implemented if technical options are in place. Of course, the technical possibilities of information technology do not limit these options. These options are technically available and possible and, of course, for technical reasons, bilingual ID cards could be issued anywhere in Slovenia in any administrative unit. However, this is of course not essential in our view. Of course, it is essential to address this issue in conjunction with Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the official language of Slovenia is Slovenian, and in the areas where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian. This provision of the Constitution is also implemented in the Law on State Administration and consequently in the Law on Administrative Procedure. State Administration Act, Article 4, and Administrative Procedure Act, Article 62. The Law on State Administration in its provisions states that in the areas of the municipalities where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community resides, the official language is also in the administration of Italian or Hungarian and that in these areas the administration also operates in the language of the national community. It seems to me all the time that we forget that issuing a ID card is, of course, an administrative procedure and is about issuing an administrative decision. A personal card is an administrative decision based on its content, but of course it is issued in a reduced procedure. And in the event of a solution proposed by the honourable Member, this would mean that the use of the Italian and Hungarian languages could be extended to the territory of the whole of Slovenia, since, in administrative proceedings, members of national minorities may, of course, conduct administrative proceedings in the language of the national minority if the application is made in the Italian or Hungarian language. We would certainly have exceeded the current provision of the Constitution, which refers to the use of the languages of Slovenian, Italian and Hungarian. Therefore, as proponents, we believe that this solution is appropriate at this point in time, that the solution proposed in this law – and by the way, it has been valid since 2005 and is in no way different than it was then – is without prejudice to the rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Maybe that's it. Slovenian nationals who are not members of national communities and who have permanent residence in the area where bilingual business is signed may also not be allowed to apply for the issue of a identity card, but the identity card shall be issued in both Slovenian and Italian or Slovenian and Hungarian languages, although they are not members of the national community, and the identity card may not be issued only in Slovenian and English, given that the identity card is also a travel document. Of course, it is different if he submits an application to another administrative unit, for example, in Ljubljana, but then a personal card can only be issued in the Slovenian language. As the proposalr, we believe that the solution is appropriate and does not affect the rights of national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. This is not true, because if they read things to you, then they would not have bilingual forms for the income forecast, nor would there be a procedure in the language of the national community, which the Ministry of Finance has established in Ljubljana. There are also many institutions without which we can't even imagine having a country. Well, that's not true, because if we interpreted it like that, then there would be no bilinguality, except as far as strictly communal matters are concerned. And that everyone has a bilingual card that lives in this area. What we want is to keep it, even if it's done in an administrative unit somewhere else, because it's possible because it's a place of residence that's a discriminatory or whatever.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Rogers. If there are any more applications, I'll re-apply because you always apply as a supplement. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I understand the constitutional provision in Slovenian as an official language. I also read English terms on my ID card in addition to Slovenian. Thus probably only the fact that Slovenian is an official language and the fact that the ID must be in the Slovenian language is not exactly connected. What I wanted to say in my previous debate is that I assume that members of a minority who would like to order a identity card in another administrative unit, but not in their mother's, do not expect an administrative procedure in a minority language, but expect a physical bilingual identity card that will last much longer than the administrative procedure. The card lasts, my bad ten years, and the administrative procedure is not likely to last that long, at least we're trying not to. I think there are some differences here that are not very insurmountable, and that if anyone wants a faster service, he should also accept with his teeth tightened that there has been no administrative procedure in Italian in Ljubljana for more than 60 years and he probably will not. In short, we know how to decide between the desire for an administrative procedure and the speed of obtaining a ID card, because this is the freedom we have, say, all the other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who we care about, whether we have only Slovenian or some other, and it would probably be right for other citizens to have this freedom of choice, but who would like to have bilingual cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u101	I can see that we have concluded the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A DECTORIAL ACTIVITY IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REPRESENTATIVE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Mag. Damian Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u102	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The current law on detective activity was passed in 1994 in the Republic of Slovenia, and despite the five amendments to the law, there have been shortcomings in the conduct of detective activities, which have led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate activities in autumn 2008 to develop the concept of strategic, institutional, supervisory and normative changes in the area of the entire private protection activity in the Republic of Slovenia, where detective activity also belongs. In early 2010, the Ministry of the Interior prepared and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a strategy in the field of private protection in which it is precisely defined, which are those areas of public interest in the domain of national regulation. This includes also detective activity, as it contributes to a common goal, that is, the general security of citizens. The law that we are presenting to you today brings about a systematic and systematic regulation of the field of detective activity. The main purpose of the proposed law is to determine the forms of detective work and the conditions under which detective activity can be carried out. The law defines the status of the Detective Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a person of public law with a public mandate. In the Chamber, detectives are required to combine with valid licenses. The tasks to be performed by the Detective Chamber include the granting and withdrawal of licences. Only a natural person may obtain a detective's license. In order to obtain a licence, a person must fulfil certain conditions under the law, which are applicable under current legislation, to mention the maintenance of a high level of education, the reduction of the minimum time when the person did not perform the tasks of an authorised official in the police, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of Defence Intelligence Service, from four to two years. However, a person must also be screened for safety and security reasons. For persons wishing to obtain a detective licence, compulsory training shall be introduced prior to carrying out the detective examination. At the same time, the law lays down precisely the conditions for the termination and withdrawal of a detective licence. In order for detectives to carry out effective detective activity without abuses and resulting violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the law clearly sets out the rights, duties and powers of the detectives. The detective will be able to collect data from persons from publicly available sources, obtain data from records, personally detect and use certain technical means to document the collected evidence. For the use of certain entitlements, more precise limits and methods of enforcement are laid down compared to the current regime. It is also appropriate to define the supervision of the conduct of detective activities. In order to comply with the legal order of the European Union, the law also specifies the conditions under which foreign detectives may carry out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled amendments to Articles 3, 7, 12, 28 and 33, proposing a new chapter with new Articles 33a, b, c and c. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. With regard to the amendments to the fifth article of the draft law tabled at today's meeting by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I must say that the amendments with substantive identical proposals have already been addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, where they have been fully rejected. We do not support the proposed amendments and reiterate that the amendments to chapters 3, 7, 12 and 7 with the proposed new articles are disproportionate and contrary to the Internal Market Services Directive. However, the proposed amendment to Article 28 would be unjustifiable and, in certain cases, even contrary to the law governing the protection of personal data and the laws governing individual areas of the management of the proposed records. Ladies and gentlemen, as a proposal, the Government believes that the solutions to the law are appropriate, and we therefore propose that the proposal be supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 28th session. 2. In 2011, the Government submitted the proposal for a law on detective activity to the National Assembly in the ordinary legislative procedure. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Ministry of the Interior on amendments based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law and the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the opinion of the State Council. The opinion of the Council of State was also attached. Amendments of the coalition and amendments of the SDS Group were tabled within the deadline. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State spoke and, in particular, stressed similar matters to those of today's presentation. It was pointed out that the proposal for a law lays down more precisely the conditions for the conduct of detective activities, the grounds for the termination or withdrawal of detective licences, the tasks, entitlements, measures and records to which the detective may access his or her work, and the supervision of the abolition of the detective activity to be carried out by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs. The proposal for a law in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market also lays down the conditions under which foreign detectives may carry out detective activities in Slovenia. With regard to the amendments tabled, it has been pointed out that the applicant supports the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, while the amendments of the SDS Group do not support them because it considers them disproportionate and contrary to the Directive. The representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service also stressed that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups largely eliminate shortcomings and, where comments are not taken into account, the reasons for this have been clarified accordingly. The National Council does not support the bill, they expressed their comments in particular on the education for the profession and the second point was that it was not taken into account to obtain the licence for the active knowledge of the Slovenian language. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Chamber of Detectives of the Republic of Slovenia, who stressed that the Chamber was involved in the drafting of the bill, but all their comments were not taken into account. In particular, they oppose the proposed greater impact of the State on the functioning of the Chamber and Detectives in the area of the training of detectives and the granting of detective licences, the reduction of the required education for the performance of the detective profession, and in particular the abolition of detective societies or full liberalisation, as highlighted, of the form of detective work. In particular, the amendments of the coalition parties, which in particular raised the level of education, were subject to consideration. The Chairman of the Committee also participated, stressing that their amendments were largely summarised following comments from the Council of State and the Chamber. With regard to the State Council's comments on the use of the Slovenian language, the State Secretary said in the debate that the use of the official language means that it is operated by state authorities, which means that foreign detectives with Slovenian national authorities will also have to operate in the Slovenian language. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition and rejected the amendments of the opposition. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended law in which amendments are adopted is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! The proposal for a position on the Law on Detective Activity will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, internal security is ensured by the security system authorities, which are represented in a narrow sense by the police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the judicial authorities, the supervisory and inspection authorities and other state authorities and institutions that contribute to internal security and stability. The resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia as part of the above-mentioned internal security authorities also includes the area of private security, including detective activity. The complementarity of the functioning of the public authorities and the services provided by the private sector in order to ensure security is important for the comprehensive provision of security, while at the same time we must not forget that security is inevitably linked to interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms and must be clearly and unequivocally defined. The proposal for a law on detective activity in its provisions and articles summarises the relevant solutions to the existing law, takes into account the experience and findings of the implementation of the law in practice so far, and builds on the sectoral arrangements in line with modern trends in detective activities and the recommendations of the security profession. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are particularly concerned with activities which affect the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including detective activity, with the aim of ensuring that the normative arrangements for such activities are regulated so as to ensure that human rights and fundamental freedoms are adequately protected, while ensuring that entities engaged in activities are able to carry out such activities in accordance with the principles of legality, proportionality and equal opportunities for the provision of a free economic initiative. The specificities of the field of detective activity as an economic activity were taken into account by the proposed law in the preparation of the proposal for a law on detective activity. As a result, the bill defines and defines more precisely the detective activity and prescribes who can deal with it, as opposed to existing legislation. The bill we are considering taxively lists the areas in which detective activity is concerned, thereby legitimising the work areas of detectives. Furthermore, the law provides for entitlements which, according to their professional judgement, detectives may use in their work and have not been specified in detail in the existing law. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we assess that the proposal for a law prepared by the Ministry of the Interior is the right answer to the challenges posed by the modern implementation of detective activity and that it eliminates the inconsistencies of existing legislation, with the result that it has provided a professionally sound and substantively sound law for both stakeholders and the general public when looking for solutions and taking into account the guidelines set out by the various strategies and resolutions on private protection. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are confident that the bill will have a positive impact on the further development of detective activity in Slovenia while ensuring the highest standards of protection of human rights and freedoms, so we will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u107	Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u108	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! The Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament will support the law on detective activities. This law was adopted in the early 1990s and later proved to be flawed and was therefore amended in many ways in 2003, 2005 and 2008. Finally, it turns out that there are additional items that need to be completed and more precisely defined in the law, and so we have today's proposal ahead of us. This proposal has been duly amended by the Committee on the Interior, in particular at the request of the Legislative and Legal Service or the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Several proposals from the Detective Chamber have also been taken into account, and I believe that the law has experienced such corrections as to justify supporting it today and that the Group of Members will do so in a uniform manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u109	Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u110	One more nice hello to everyone. Detective activity is a regulated economic activity which must respect consistently the legality, human rights and freedoms and the principles of the rule of law. Since this has not occasionally taken place, several cases have been brought against the detective work of different courts. At times, the complaints concerned both the implementation of detective measures, the overstepping of measures by law, the work without a licence, the storage of data and the control of the hospital stock. On the basis of these or these actions, the Government has decided to prepare a new law on detective activity. The proposed solutions and the amendments of the coalition, which took into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services, define more precisely the detective activity and define the status and tasks of the competent authority, namely the Detective Chamber, which is a person of public law, in which the detectives who have a valid licence are required to unite. The Chamber will distribute and withdraw licences for the conduct of detective activities and the issuance of detective cards, maintain the required records, carry out professional supervision of the work of detectives and detective companies and carry out mandatory similar training of detectives. The security check will be carried out by the competent ministry at the request of the competent authority, according to the Detective Chamber. The chapter on the rights and duties of a detective is extensive. In doing so, I would point out the proposal of the Chamber and the SDS amendment, which would allow the detective, for example, to have access to individual-owned securities registers and to tax and bank records. Of course, we will not support this amendment in the parliamentary group, nor will we support other amendments tabled. The Detective Chamber also had comments on the required level 5 education as one of the conditions for obtaining a detective licence before being examined on the home working body. With the adoption of the amendment to the Internal Policy Committee, the applicant must now obtain a licence and have at least one level of education obtained under the higher education programme, which means that we have taken their proposal into account. The State Council did not support the proposed law, and in its opinion it also gave reasons why they do not support the law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the amendments have taken account of their comments and their comments. Unfortunately, all comments and wishes could not be accepted because they were put too wide and contrary to legislation in this area. The Social Democrats' Group will support the bill and the amendments that have been tabled will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u111	Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you so much again for saying that. The government has proposed a new law to regulate the field of detective activity. Initially, it is worth noting that at the beginning of last year we have already adopted an amendment to the current law on detective activity. This amendment to the law on detective activity at the time deleted the condition of active control of the Slovenian language for obtaining a detective's license. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly warned that the deletion of this condition is controversial. He also drew attention to the dispute over the deletion of the condition of the Slovenian language by the Council of State, which later introduced a legal novel with this content, which unfortunately did not listen to the ruling coalition. With regard to the latter, it is worth noting that the new proposal for a law on detective activity does not have the condition of active control of the Slovenian language between the conditions for obtaining a detective's license. The Slovenian language is a value, which we strongly like to stress in public, and we prefer to forget that when we are placed before we comply with European legislation. Without the Slovenian language, we simply cannot talk about the preservation of Slovenian identity, about the preservation of Slovenian culture, and not least about the preservation of Slovenian state. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this condition would have no adverse consequences, but would protect the Slovenian language, which is also protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenian citizens and citizens must rightly expect to be in contact with the detective, if they need him, in their country, able to communicate with him in their official language. A foreign detective will also have to speak and master it according to the work he does. This will also make it clear that there will be no misunderstandings in the agreement or worse. It is easy to imagine that inappropriate or difficult language communication would result in additional unpleasant inconveniences that the detective’s work in itself brings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we believe that the Slovenian language as well as the users of detective services should be protected, so that in Slovenia they will carry out the detective activity of persons who actively control the Slovenian language, which would also be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on detective activity. The explanation of the new law on detective activity states that the law does not derogate from the objectives and principles of the law in force. In the SDS Group, we believe that the law in the field of detective activity certainly brings about significant changes, that it abolishes the detective society and thus disproportionately opens up the form of detective activity. This solution means that companies can also engage in detective activities, which will jeopardise the quality of detective activities. Such a non-critical solution, however, is, in our view, questionable in terms of security and the protection of public interest. The bill brings solutions that raise a number of issues in the field of the conduct of detective activities in terms of legal certainty and public interest protection, and therefore do not support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u113	Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The bill before us is in the direction of addressing the shortcomings contained in the current law on detective activities, and above all more systematically regulates the activity. The essential novelty or amendment of the proposed law provides for compulsory professional training before carrying out a detective examination, which is not currently provided for by the law in force. Under the current law, detective activity can only be carried out in the form of a personal society and the proposal for a law regulates this issue in an appropriate manner. Detective activity will be newly able to be carried out as a self-employed, free profession or will be able to carry out this activity by legal and natural persons in all forms of companies. The current law gives this option only to companies with limited and unlimited liability. However, there is also a guardian in the law, namely a company of an employed detective with a valid licence and a security for liability for damage. It should be noted that this amendment is in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Market Services Directive, which expressly states that when a Member State restricts the exercise of a particular type of activity or form of legal person to an unauthorised request. And it may not be too much to recall at this point that this directive on services in the internal market, or its implementation, is something that is in the very interest of a lot of Slovenian craftsmen who, for example, would like to sell their services and services, for example, in Austria, whose current legislation makes it impossible for them to compete or, if we say simply, Austria has not yet respected this Directive on services in the internal market. The pressure of the European Union to implement this is considerable, but of course, particularly by the new members of the European Union. It is likely that if we wanted to regulate this area in the way presented in the Group's transitional opinion, we would want to give a poor signal as to the implementation of this Directive. I do not think it would be in the interest of the Slovenian economy, in particular the small economy, that in one area, detectively, for example, we narrow down the possibility of competition, but at the same time require all other craftsmen to compete freely, say, in Austria. The following, also a very important change, relates to the granting and withdrawal of a licence. From now on, the granting and withdrawal of a licence under the jurisdiction of the Slovenian Chamber of Detectives will be based on a public mandate. The membership of the Chamber will be mandatory. However, we must not forget that there are only about 80 detectives in Slovenia. And here, too, the present law has a guardian, when or if it is found that, on the basis of public authority, work is carried out in an unprofessional manner and that there are illegalities in the performance of these tasks, the Ministry may withdraw and perform these administrative tasks alone. In the light of the public interest, the draft law sets out very clearly the conditions for carrying out detective activities, which are the following: citizenship of the European Union, minimum level of education, examination for the detective, the already mentioned compulsory training, security checks and the absence of security concerns. In the Group of Members, we are particularly pleased that the proposal for a law brings important innovations in the area of the termination of the licence and the withdrawal of the licence itself. As stated, on the proposal of the law, she also made comments to the Chamber of Detectives and some were included in the law. Among the most important is the need for a level of education in order to carry out detective activities. We found a common language here during the debate. There are still some comments that have not been taken into account by the Detective Chamber, which are almost impossible to include in the law itself, since the comments of the detective chamber, the State Council and the SDS Group, which are also proposed as amendments to the current reading, do not take into account the provisions of the Internal Market Services Directive. It was heard that, for example, they were contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which they did not. The fact is, now the legal capacity or right to initiate legal proceedings is not to be restricted to companies established in accordance with the rules of another Member State in the territory of which they are established. I have already mentioned why this respect for the Internal Market Services Directive is very important for the Slovenian economy. Finally, let me explain the disagreement between the Zares Group - a new policy with the State Council's comment on the mandatory use of the Slovenian language, which we have already met in this mandate. It is sufficient only to mention Article 11 of the Constitution, which provides that the official languages in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia are Slovenian and in certain areas Italian and Hungarian. This means, of course, that the official language must be used by the authorities of the state administration. In this case, it's also foreign detectives, like the official language. The detective will therefore not be able to operate in his or her foreign language with the state authorities, but he will do so in Slovenian. How the client will operate is, of course, a matter of her choice if she hires a foreign detective or not. We do not want to mix pears and apples in the parliamentary group, so we will support the law as it is in the present form.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u115	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, distinguished colleague, colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are somewhat surprised that we are already dealing with the detective activity law for the second time in this mandate, and we have twice amended it in the previous reference. At this point, we also agree with the opinion of the Council of State, which points out that the majority of other members have a relatively freely regulated or only partially regulated area. Therefore, we view continued coordination in this area as unnecessary. A fundamental change in the proposed law, as we see it, of course, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is a change in the direction that detective activity is carried out as a free independent profession that can be carried out by natural and legal persons in all forms of companies. However, it is mandatory that the company has an employed detective with a valid licence and insurance for liability for damage. With regard to the abolition of the detective society and the full liberalisation of forms of work in detective activities, consideration should be given to negative experiences in other areas of craft and entrepreneurship by setting up straw companies, using and abuse of activities. So will larger companies be able to provide some sort of internal detective service for their own needs? Will the detectives be able to hire practically anyone who takes a few minutes of time as an entrepreneur and prepares an activity? Are there gonna be security agencies now? In our view, however, detective activity is a bit of a specific activity, limited by the principal rights of the contracting authority. In carrying out procedures that may also be at the border of ensuring respect for and protection of human rights, the detective must assess the proportionality of the procedure and the measures involved, and there is a huge personal approach. Complete liberalisation would mean that different companies could engage in detective activity, which in most cases leads to more difficult control and very likely to fall in the quality of services. In fact, we will be witnessing a certain commercialisation of a profession that is not good because of its nature. The required education for obtaining a licence, which was reduced by the first draft of the bill, is now returning to the appropriate level with the amendments adopted, so we have no further comments in this regard. However, we will support the amendment which obliges the person carrying out the detective activity to the basic knowledge of the Slovenian language. As it looks in practice, when security guards do not even master the basic level of expression in the Slovenian language, you can see in the case of the Hippo Leasing of Hippo Alpe Adria Bank in Ljubljana. Although it seems to us that the nature of the detective profession will lead to the fact that at least basic knowledge of Slovenian will be necessary, the basic right of citizens to personal documentation with a detective in the Slovenian language is technically dominant here. The additional verification of individual applicants for the award of a detective licence by the Minister of the Interior or the police as an authority in its composition seems welcome, since the Authority has all the necessary data to verify and thus does not diminish the competence of the detective chamber itself. With appropriate corrections to maintaining the detective activity as an individual profession or in the form of a detective society, the Slovenian People's Party's Group would support the bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u117	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! Detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia is a relatively young form of free profession, as well as a special economic service, which has been increasingly established since the adoption of the first legal basis in 1994 in our society. Detectives, as well as other persons whose work is largely related to possible human rights and fundamental freedoms, have a special, legally regulated position. It is therefore fully in line with the principle of legality in order to establish a suitable legal basis for such action, which does not jeopardise these fundamental and constitutional rights, in particular when it comes to the security and privacy of an individual who is, in any event, subject to the operation of the detective's powers. The proposal for a new law on detective activity is, according to the assessment of the DeSUS Group, an upgrade and improvement of the existing regime. This law renews the existing regime in terms of remedying certain shortcomings and with a more systematic regulation of the field of this activity. Only a good legal basis for the implementation of this activity can produce positive results in detective services, the satisfaction of contracting authorities and, at the same time, appropriateness in respect of the legality, human rights and freedoms and the principles of the rule of law. The extension of the legal organisation or status of a business entity within which this activity can be carried out — in addition to a natural person — can be considered an extension of the legal organisation or status of a business entity, in addition to the activity of a natural person, if it carries out the work of a detective as an independent profession, even on the basis of a legal person’s working relationship in all forms of companies, of course, subject to the applicable licence and the concluded liability insurance for damage. This is a significant difference from the current regime following the free economic initiative and the Internal Market Services Directive. In view of the original text of the bill, the educational level required so far is maintained, which we welcomed in the DeSUS Group, because we agreed in this part with the comments received. We also welcome the introduction of compulsory pre-departure training, which is not provided for in the law in force, and the determination of the possibility of traineeships or practice, which is, of course, welcome for future detectives. The applicable law fails to regulate the procedure for determining security concerns in the issue of a licence obtained by a natural person upon completion of all the conditions. We agree that detectives must be vetted and unsecured before the issue of the licence, and that the law clearly sets out how security checks are carried out, which are security concerns and the competence of the Ministry of the Interior to carry out these inquiries. The law also sets out clearly and in detail the reasons why the licence ceases to be valid or can be withdrawn, whereby the competent authority — the Detective Chamber — may withdraw the licence on a conditional, temporary, permanent or non-performing basis. With regard to the Chamber of Detectives, its position is maintained, the power to grant and withdraw licences is maintained and compulsory membership is maintained. An effective supervisory mechanism is provided for under the power conferred on it, as the law clearly and precisely provides for when the Ministry of the Chamber may withdraw the authorisation to grant licences. In our opinion, there is also adequate inspection of the implementation of the entire content of the law. Compared to the law in force, the work area of detectives, their entitlements and rights themselves, and the duties of detectives they have with regard to their work, are also significantly more precisely defined. In the DeSUS Group, we will draw up solutions that constitute a complementary proposal for a law and take the utmost account of the comments made by the Detective Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u119	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u120	Your Honor! The law on detective activity was passed in 1994 and has been amended three times since then. The new law was aligned with the European Directive in 2006, which deals with services in the internal market and regulates procedures, recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. In 2010 the National Assembly will complement and expand the area of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The proposer explains that the proposed law follows the interest of improvements to the law and corrects the shortcomings currently contained in the law. In particular, the withdrawal of licences, the current law does not provide for compulsory professional training before carrying out the detective examination, and powers and insights into other records are also unclear. Under the new proposed law, detective activity will be able to be carried out as an independent profession and can be carried out by legal and natural persons in all forms of economic services, provided, of course, that the company has an employed detective with a valid licence. This also follows the provisions of the Internal Market Services Directive. One of the changes is the granting and withdrawal of licences, where the law clearly states that it is within the competence of the Slovenian Chamber of Detectives, of course on the basis of public authority. It is also a compulsory membership in the Chamber, where there are about 80 members representing all the authorised detectives involved in this activity. The draft law also refers to the level of education for which level 5 should be sufficient, compulsory training, examination for a detective and security check. The conditions under which foreign detectives can carry out detective activities in Slovenia are also laid down and the conditions are in line with the European Union Directive. Of course, this is also the part where neither in the previous law nor in the present is knowledge of the Slovenian language mentioned. Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. Despite the fact that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and is a free movement of labour one of its fundamental freedoms, we in the Slovenian National Party Group feel that the condition of active knowledge of Slovenian language in carrying out detective activities in the law under consideration should be maintained. In the law, a certain condition of Slovenian knowledge in carrying out a detective activity does not in any way limit the exercise of activities to other citizens of the Member States of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, since each Member State of the European Union can freely lay down the conditions for carrying out an activity in its territory, it is necessary to respect the principle of equality, that the same conditions apply to both domestic and foreign nationals. We have a Constitution in Slovenia and there can be no advantage to the European directive. I am surprised to see what to defend in the law of the use of the Slovenian language, as this cannot harm anyone, but at least the Slovenes. And yet it is imposed on the Members who adopt this law and on the general public who are accompanying this debate. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the law, where amendments are tabled on all articles, is a bad law, because, as we can see, it was not even aligned with the coalition. In short, there is a new law that does not take into account any proposal from the professional services, the Detective Chamber and the opposition. We will not support such a bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. In doing so, we would like to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to devote greater importance to the preservation of the national language, which is undoubtedly the foundation of every nation and country, including Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u121	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2011. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 3. The amendment to Article 3 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer, which is the SDS Group of Members, to Article 7, so we will discuss them together. So I am putting to the debate paragraphs 3 and 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on these two amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I note that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate on this Article and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion here either, so I conclude. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on private security under the ordinary procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State, mag. Damian Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u122	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The objective or objectives of the proposal for a new law on private protection are: to develop private protection as a regulated economic sector, consistent with the principle of legality, the protection of human rights and freedoms and other principles of the rule of law, to develop quality professional education, to train and improve security personnel, to effectively control private security entities and to achieve synergies in the area of security in the context of accelerated partnerships between national and private security mechanisms. In order to achieve the objectives set, we have prepared a new system law in cooperation with the Chamber for the Development of Slovenian Private Protection, which brings some major changes to the regulatory regime in this area. The draft law establishes a clear division of administrative, supervisory and professional tasks between the Ministry of the Interior, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, the police and representative associations. The conditions for the performance of private security are more proportionate as certain minimum quotas for the number of security personnel are eliminated as a condition for the licence, a more clearly defined safety check, professional competence, knowledge of the Slovenian language and the identification of health and mental fitness for the performance of private protection. It is mandatory to comply with certain standards in the field of private protection, and a new licence is introduced for the protection of events in guest houses, for which the holder will have to have specially trained security guards. An important novelty is also the establishment of a procedure for the protection of the rights of the individual who has been violated by his or her rights in the implementation of the security measures. In addition to these key amendments to the law, mention is made of the possibility of organising so-called internal protection, which means that companies, state authorities and others wishing to organise human protection and property themselves in their territory will be able to employ qualified and verified security personnel without obtaining a licence. It is also clearer that critical infrastructure must be protected, cash and other assets must be protected, and public events must be protected. In addition, the law also introduces a novelty in markings on work clothes, vehicles and equipment, which introduces a single title "security" which will contribute to greater transparency in the work of security personnel. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled amendments to Articles 28, 36, 51, 56 and 62 in addition to the proposed law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. The adoption of an amendment to a temporary withdrawal clause would unnecessarily limit the possibility of a temporary withdrawal in the event of non-compliance with an inspection measure in the event of the most serious infringements of the law. An extension of the period of deposit of the service card from two to five years would constitute an unnecessary administrative burden on the competent authority, as the procedure for obtaining the service card is extremely simplified and rapid. Let me mention that we already have about 900 business cards deposited. The amendment to Article 51 disproportionately limits the contracting authorities and places an unnecessary burden on the decision to apply the measure outside the protected area to the security guard. The amendment to Article 56 limits the completion of weapons handling exclusively to the protection of persons, but we need to know that any professional who uses weapons at work must be professionally qualified to use them. The amendment to Article 62, however, removes the liability of licence holders to ensure that security personnel are equipped in accordance with the provisions of the law, that work clothes, equipment and vehicles are not in the same colour combination, design and markings as or in the same way as those of officials such as police, military or municipal officials. The Government, as a bill-maker, considers that this bill adequately regulates private protection and proposes that Members and Members of Parliament adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 28th session. 2. In 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on private protection to the National Assembly for a regular procedure. The members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for National Regulation, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Ministry of the Interior on amendments based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments of the coalition and the SDS Group were tabled within the deadline. The Secretary of State, Mr Mag, also took part in this meeting on behalf of the proposer. Damian Lah. The essential solutions in the draft law include the clear delimitation of administrative, professional and supervisory tasks between the competent national authorities and the representative professional interest association, the establishment of criteria for the identification of representativeness and the possibility of granting public authority to carry out certain professional tasks, the more precise determination of the conditions for obtaining a licence and the service of the licence to carry out a private security activity, the introduction of a new licence to protect events in restaurant premises for which the applicant will have to have specially qualified security officers, the establishment of a procedure for the protection of the rights of the individual and clear rules on the use of markings, work clothes, equipment and vehicles of private security companies and security personnel. The draft law also specifies the activities for which it is necessary to organise a protection service in accordance with the law and also introduces the possibility of organising its own or exclusively internal protection for companies, state authorities and similar entities wishing to do so. To this end, they will be able to employ trained security personnel, and for internal protection, the company will not have to obtain a licence and meet other specific conditions. The representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled by the Coalition largely address the shortcomings and, in their work, where comments were not taken into account, the reasons for this were duly clarified. The National Council supports the bill. They stressed that the Council of State merely draws attention to some of the concerns expressed by the Chamber for the Development of Slovenian Private Protection on the proposal for a law and calls for the fullest possible consideration of these comments. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition but has not adopted amendments to the SDS Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended law in which amendments are adopted is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The adoption of the Act on Private Protection and the Compulsory Organisation of the Security Service was the first attempt since Slovenia's independence to regulate the area of private protection and property. Since the adoption of the Law on Private Protection, the activity in Slovenia has expanded dramatically and new problems have also arisen and appropriate legal solutions have to be found, including for the coordinated entry of private security services into the European market. The Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the then Private Protection Chamber, drafted a proposal for a new law, which was adopted on 27 November 2003. In view of the irregularities in the implementation and the shortcomings of the normative provisions, the Ministry of the Interior has prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Private Protection Act of 9 November 2007. The proposed amendment to the law on private protection today aims to continue the practice that has to be systematically regulated and amended and to ensure the development of private protection activities as regulated industries, while respecting the principle of legality, human rights and freedoms and the principles of the rule of law. That this area will be systematically regulated to ensure quality education in this area, in order to ensure effective control of private security entities, in order to achieve synergies in the area of security with accelerated partnerships between national and private security mechanisms. However, in the sum of the above, the main aim is, of course, to ensure a higher level of security for citizens, of course, and their property. In this respect, the main solutions to the law have identified public interest in the field of private protection, contractual protection on the market and the possibility of internal protection, the competence to carry out administrative tasks of the competent authority, the granting of public authority to carry out certain professional tasks, the professional supervision of the performance of tasks under public authority, the issuing of a certificate of licence or consent for foreigners, mandatory standards. Activities which are not compatible with private protection shall be defined. The law also defines a new licence to protect events in guest restaurants. More specifically, conditions for termination, temporary, conditional and permanent withdrawal of the licence and withdrawal of the service card are defined. The law lays down even more precisely a range of details that will ensure the easier and more successful implementation of the law for the benefit of everyone to whom it applies. In its consideration of the law, the Internal Policy Committee adopted 34 amendments, which mainly referred to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as some others. It is because of everything that we believe that the law has been improved so that the Group of Non-Aligned Members can be unitedly supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u127	Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. The law governing private protection and the compulsory organisation of the protection service was adopted in 1994, which meant after Slovenia's independence the first attempt to regulate the area of private protection of people and their property. The activity of private protection has continued to expand and strengthen, and new problems have also arisen. A new law on private protection was adopted in 2003 with new legal measures and, inter alia, the harmonisation of the law with the European legal order. Despite the new laws, economic operators involved in this activity have repeatedly carried out activities contrary to the law and the interests of security. In this place I would like to remind you of the tragic events in front of Lipa and later in Global and individual events with shooting, beating and similar in front of some other nightclubs in Slovenia. The reform of the law on private protection is one of the coalition commitments. The proposed legal solutions also go in this direction, namely the recasting and delimiting of administrative, supervisory and professional tasks between direct private security operators, security consulting services and representative associations, and the competent ministries, inspectorates and police. The conditions for carrying out this activity are more proportionately laid down: a new licence is introduced to protect events in restaurant premises, a procedure is laid down to protect the priority in restaurant premises, a procedure for the protection of the rights of the individual is laid down, an individual will be able to lodge a complaint about the performance of the security measures and the holder of the licence is obliged to respond within thirty days. Internal protection with certain restrictions is introduced, meaning that companies, state authorities and others in their territory will be able to carry out internal protection of assets and people, but by employing qualified and verified security personnel. The comments of the Chamber relate to the obligations to provide equivalent training for security personnel and to the prescribed format of the label on working forms, vehicles and equipment. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that a five-year parallel test of the professional competence of security personnel should not be such a huge cost to businesses to jeopardise the existence of businesses. Given that we are living in a fast-growing society, companies should make sure that the employees are familiar with the news without legal provisions. The opposition of the Chamber to the prescribed markings on working clothes, vehicles and equipment was based on calculations of the costs of a single replacement. In order to avoid these additional costs of the private security company, the transitional provisions of the five-year deadlines for harmonisation shall contain the following: After five years of use, clothing, vehicles and other equipment shall definitely be used. However, within this time limit, companies will be able to replace and properly label working aids without any additional costs. Of course, it is necessary to commit ourselves, however, to ensure that these provisions do not constantly change and to re-set rules. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want in particular that private protection companies develop, that security personnel carry out their work to the satisfaction of all of us citizens and citizens and that tragic stories from the past do not repeat. We will support the proposal for a law on private protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u129	Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u130	Again, thank you very much for your word. The draft law on private protection also concerns a new law governing the implementation of private protection. Initially, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask ourselves whether a new law is really needed or whether it might not be more appropriate to supplement it already in force. A good third of the amendments were adopted by the Committee in the second reading of the new proposal for a law on private protection, and of course only coalition parliamentary groups. Our proposals, although some in our view were very good, have been rejected. Security is a human right defined in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that everyone must have the right to personal dignity and security. The exercise of the right to security must primarily be taken care of by the State with its institutions. It is indisputable to ensure security, order and peace as only in a secure environment can people exercise other rights and fulfil their obligations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposal for a new law on private protection is out of order and will, as such, be difficult to implement in practice in the area of security. Instead of content that would ensure the quality of the performance of private protection, set safety standards and quality control over licence holders, the new law on private protection sets out what a working dress should look like, what a label should be and what an inscription should be on a work dress and exactly what kind of letter size it should be. We are not saying that this is irrelevant, but this is certainly not the key to ensuring the implementation of Article 34 of the Constitution of Slovenia, which is the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Private Protection introduces a new licence, namely the insurance of events in guest restaurants. This proposal raises the question whether the holder of the licence must have, in addition to the safety manager, a special security manager who is specially qualified to protect nightclubs. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the text of the law in this part is quite vague, so for the second hearing of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we proposed an amendment proposing, for safety reasons, that the holder of the licence for the protection of events in guest houses should have a special security manager who is qualified for this form of protection. The amendment was, unfortunately, not adopted. Since the proposal for a new law on private protection in the field of private protection raises a number of issues in terms of legal certainty, the implementation of security under Article 34 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the protection of public interest, and at the same time brings disproportionate measures, we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u131	Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Let me begin by expressing the satisfaction of the Zares Group on the proposal for a law that we are considering today. We believe that the bill is going in the right direction, we all remember the tragic events ahead of us, now for six years now, before the Lip discotheque, and perhaps elsewhere, and perhaps the common conclusion is that it is illegal or irresponsible, in particular the actions of organisers who do not hire a security service for the safety of visitors, who would have a licence to protect public gatherings to do so with too few security guards and so on. In short, I think that standardisation of this area is not something to be opposed to. In short, the proposed novelties or objectives of the law, as already mentioned, are quality professional education, training and fulfilment of security personnel, supervision of private security entities and synergies in the area of security, while, of course, partnering national and private security mechanisms. As regards private protection as a regulated economic sector, the proposed changes in the direction of development are being made, while respecting the principle of legality, the protection of human rights and freedoms and other principles of the rule of law. There is no need to overlook the new developments that make it mandatory to meet certain standards in the field of private protection; for example, to introduce, for example, these new licences, which have already been mentioned, to protect events in guest houses for which the owner will have to have specially trained security guards. In the protection of individuals' rights, a number of possibilities for complaints are given to an individual. Where an individual considers that his rights have been violated in the execution of the security measures, he will be able to lodge a complaint, the licence holder will have to respond within 30 days and when it is found that the security guard has unlawfully applied the measure, the police and other law enforcement authorities will be responsible for this. The current law does not have certain transparent codes for private security companies and security personnel, the proposed law regulates this in an appropriate manner, so that it will be clear and visible to all that it is for persons carrying out private protection. We have heard quite a few comments from the SDS Group in the just heard opinion, and the amendments are also made to the legal text. In the Parliamentary Group, we are of the opinion that the adoption of these comments could have exactly the opposite effects or objectives, such as the vision of this law, because the amendments already tabled on the parent committee reduce the responsibility of the licence holder for illegal and non-professional work. We believe that this significantly reduces the already achieved level of public interest protection, which must not be the aim of addressing the issue of private protection. In the Group of Members, we really expect that the very implementation of this law will lead to successful protection of facilities and entities and that the initial protection function will finally begin to be carried out, that is a sense of security. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u133	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware of the importance of regulating private protection, since in the past, despite the already existing law on private protection, there have been tragic events that have ended with death, and even more tragically, young people. In the event of these events, it has been clear that private protection arrangements and, in particular, the supervision of the provision of such services are extremely poor and require as comprehensive a treatment as possible. Ensuring a high level of security and quality of life for all citizens must be one of the fundamental interests of the Republic of Slovenia, and a prerequisite for this is consistent respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and systematic prevention of interference with human privacy and justice. The proposal for a law on private protection constitutes a comprehensive system of private protection and follows consistent respect for the principle of legality, the rule of law and the human rights and freedoms already mentioned. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are convinced that the law will reduce the possibility of abuse in the conduct of a private security activity, as the conditions for obtaining a licence for the conduct of a private security activity are laid down more precisely and security concerns and verification by security personnel and other responsible persons are also specified more precisely. The provisions of the law concerning the delimitation of powers for the performance of administrative tasks between the Ministry of the Interior and the professional tasks of the representative professional interest of the association are also important. It is also a good solution for a representative association to be given public authority to carry out the individual professional tasks to be performed for all licence holders. This will make it possible to relieve the ministry of its burden, as it will be able to focus primarily on monitoring the implementation of the law and its regulations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, on the other hand, we are concerned about the situation of employees in private security activities, as there is a significant gap between employee responsibility, working conditions, working hours on the one hand and inadequate payments on the other. We agree with the opinion of the State Council's Commission on State Regulations that the granting of licences must take into account labour legislation and, above all, the rights of the worker. In the event of non-compliance with the obligations set out in this Title, appropriate sanctions should also be provided for. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are also negatively surprised by the quality of the text of the draft law that the Government has submitted to the National Assembly, since the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out a great deal of ambiguity that has to be overcome by amendments during the legislative process. We therefore wonder what the procedure is for the drafting of marriage texts. The drafting of the law takes months or even years, and the texts should be drawn up to the last branch and then torn apart by the Law-Legal Service within a few weeks. However, this is a topic that is not only about this law but also about other proposals coming into this house. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not, in principle, oppose the adoption of the Law on Private Protection. However, we would appeal to the entire government team to ensure that the procedures for drafting legislative texts are improved, as it is only in this way that Members can concentrate fully on the content of the proposed texts and do not waste time on the uncertainty and vague definition of individual articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u135	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! Security is one of the existential human needs, it is a central component of social life and it enables life and action in society. We face protection in all areas of human activity. The sphere of protection that is the subject of the proposal for a new law on private protection is the protection of people and property. The accelerated development of private security began with the creation of private property. Police are no longer the only ones to ensure human security and property, as private security entities are also offering security services by carrying out economic activities on the market. They shall therefore cooperate in the exercise of one of the fundamental functions of the State in ensuring security and thus in ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms. Security is good and therefore requires appropriate legislation from the State. Private protection is also in the public interest and should therefore be regulated and monitored. The Republic of Slovenia has been legally regulated since 1994, which is, of course, continuously updated and updated. Private security has also become an integral part of national security through the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. Private protection through its activity contributes to internal security, as national security and the security of individuals are interdependent and intertwined. Private protection is an economic activity aimed at protecting people and property governed by the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest with a view to protecting public order and public security of the protection of contracting authorities, third parties and security personnel who directly carry out the activity. The activity of private protection must also be regulated due to the possibility of repression. This activity is linked to the risk of human rights and fundamental freedoms being violated in proceedings. Even threats to health and life, which unfortunately has happened several times in the past. The proposal for a law on private protection is, according to the assessment of the DeSUS Group, an upgrade and improvement of the existing regime. The key innovations in this area are as follows. In the absence of the roles and competences of a representative chamber in the current law, this law sets out and clearly limits the competences of individual entities performing tasks in the field of private protection. The conditions for carrying out private security activities have not been clearly and proportionately established so far. The bill removes this flaw. The minimum quotas for the number of security personnel as a condition for the licence have been removed. Security checks, professional qualifications, standards training, knowledge of Slovenian language and health and mental fitness to carry out private protection are more clearly defined. A new licence shall be introduced for the insurance of events in guest premises for which the holder will have to have specially trained security guards. A procedure for the protection of the rights of an individual is laid down, which has not yet been established. At the first stage, the licence holder will resolve the proceedings, and in the event of a complaint against the findings of the licence holder, a representative association will be included at the second stage. However, if the security guard makes unlawful use of the measure, it will be the competent police. Economic companies, state authorities and others wishing to organise the protection of people and property themselves in their territory will be able to request qualified and verified security personnel without obtaining a licence. It's what's called internal security. Amendments to the applicable law also relate to the transparency and determination of markings on work clothes of security guards and vehicles and equipment of security services which will be more clearly visible and uniformly marked "security". In addition, the proposal for a law specifically regulates the protection of cash transactions and the protection of public events. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposed law, as it means, after our assessment, improving the existing regime, which we are renewing through this law by building good solutions into even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u137	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u138	Your Honor! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we agree that the current state of private protection is not adequately regulated, so we support the Government's intention to remedy the shortcomings of the arrangements that have proved to be poor in practice and to supplement the law with proposals that will be clear, transparent and effective for such activities and will in practice follow the laws as will be written. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we welcome the fact that the Private Protection Act has been written by employees at the Ministry of the Interior, since they have thus justified their many jobs to be covered by experts. Given that the law on the committee was then almost entirely amended, it raises questions about the ability and expertise of the Ministry of the Interior. I would further point out some of the substantive aspects of the law under consideration, in which I cannot and which I personally consider it wise to reconsider before deciding on the law. Members of the Slovenian National Party have certain concerns and we do not fully agree with the provision of Article 8 of the Act, which allows the granting of public authority to carry out individual administrative tasks to other legal persons. We estimate that, in particular, the granting and withdrawal of licences, security checks, the supervision of the implementation of the law and regulations should continue to be under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, and tasks such as the completion and training of security personnel in accordance with the law, which were, before the current regulation in force since 2007, within the competence of the Chamber for the Development of Slovenian Private Protection, which we consider to be an appropriate arrangement, as this is crucial for the development of the profession. This law will enable others to exercise public or private law. I believe that private security is not only such a general activity that would not require responsibility, as it also has certain powers. It is noted that all too much in these services are employed by unverified persons, who then perform jobs and tasks in very sensitive jobs. As a result, it is often found that they also have an foretaste. We welcome the internal protection arrangements for their own needs in the law, as this is subject to regulation despite a different status definition, as is the case for the successful exercise of private protection. However, a request for registration with the competent authority has also been added. The law introduces a new licence for the protection of events in guest houses, as the applicant must have, in addition to meeting the general conditions, a working relationship between the security and safety managers who are professionally qualified to protect events and are professionally trained under the programme. Unfortunately, the unfortunate events in the inn had to occur years ago in order for the state to finally move to adopt stricter provisions and introduce stricter conditions for the conduct of private protection activities. The law gives the task of overseeing the legality of the work of private security companies and security personnel to the Inspectorate of the Ministry of the Interior and the police. It is important to be aware that the implementation of private protection is extremely sensitive and responsible, which is not least evidenced by the tragic cases of the recent past. The fact is that it is in the interest of all of us to adopt such a law on private protection that will allow for quality private protection and at the same time prevent and sanction those private protection companies that will also violate the rules. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u139	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The proposal for a law on private protection will be supported in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The safety of all citizens and citizens and other entities in the Republic of Slovenia is essential for the normal functioning of society and its subsystems. Security is the primary task of the State and its institutions, and the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2007-2011 shows that our country's contribution to the security of our country also contributes to the activity of private protection. Private protection in Slovenia has been present for the second decade. At that time, there have been several normative systemic changes. The rapid development of the security sector, the introduction of new supervisory technologies and the demands and expectations of modern society required a renewed reflection on the further development of private protection. The latter can only be achieved by defining clear objectives and relationships and the roles and responsibilities of key actors in this area. Through a strategic approach, the drafter wanted to prevent and eliminate a certain level playing field in society, which is due to modern security challenges, risks and threats. The State has therefore transferred part of its powers in this area to the exercise of private security entities. This protection can also be called superstandard. For the State ensures a certain level of security for all under equal conditions. Anyone who wants to, however, can ensure a higher level of security through the use of private security services. In this regard, it is also important that the individual contracting authority is prepared and able to pay. Given that security personnel in providing security may interfere with human rights and the fundamental freedoms of an individual, it is imperative that this area be regulated by the State. The bill brings the following key changes: it clearly divides administrative, supervisory and professional tasks between the Ministry of the Interior, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, the police and representative associations. The law lays down the criteria for determining the representativeness and the possibility of granting certain administrative tasks with public authority, which means that certain minimum quotas for the number of security personnel are abolished as a condition for the licence. A new licence for the protection of events shall be introduced in guest premises for which the holder will have to have specially trained security guards. The procedure for the protection of the rights of the individual shall also be specified. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are convinced, after examining and having discussed the text of the law, that the proposal for a law on private protection, as prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, follows the objectives and strategies for the development of private protection as regulated economic activities. More precise definitions of powers, tasks and obligations and a high standard of protection of individual rights follow the objectives set for the development of private protection and build on existing regulatory arrangements and ensure that this activity develops adequately in the future. That is why we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u141	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I see that there is no interest in this debate, so I conclude with Article 28. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. No applications for discussion. I'm concluding. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. No applications – I'm closing. I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members – there are also no declarations. I am putting to the debate Article 62 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members – there are no applications. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the promotion of agricultural and animal products within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u142	Dear Members! In front of you is the law on the promotion of agricultural and food products. This law is extremely important because it is part of the regulation of justice in the food chain. This law will help us build, on the basis of arguments and trust, loyalty between the Slovenian consumer and Slovenian food production, which is not at the current level as it should be. This law, as you know, has been in preparation in Slovenia for 11 years. There have been a number of legislative proposals, of course, with a view to achieving a promotion that will have greater effects only after a while, that is two or three years, perhaps a fourth year. However, it allows for systematic communication between Slovenian food production, namely farmers, craftsmen and food processing industries to the Slovenian consumer, in a way that helps the country with co-financing. This law, which is now before you, is a law where we have managed to reconcile most of the interests of NGOs, since it was a condition that the law goes into further proceedings at all. In recent years, the debate and the debate have not been completed, and this has also been the reason why the law has not been adopted at the following points. The first point is the relationship between general or generic promotion and promotion of quality schemes. Here the Slovenian agricultural area has very clearly defined its interest. And this interest is defined through the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, in particular the trade union, that only promotion of quality schemes that prefer food from the domestic environment, i.e. Slovenian food, is required. However, the food processing industry has expressed an interest in promoting such general promotion, general generic promotion and quality schemes. The law, which is an acceptable compromise, allows 25% of the money collected to be promoted, which is general or generic, and 75% of the money collected goes to promoting quality schemes and then the country adds its share. Another point where a number of years have been looking for an acceptable solution is how to make a promotion. In countries far larger than Slovenia, much more money is devoted to the promotion, for example, Germany, which spends almost €100 million, France €50 million, neighbouring Austria €20-30 million, has set up special promotion agencies. The overall assessment of the Slovenian agricultural and food area, as well as the ministry, was that with the amount of money that we will collect, the estimate is 2 to 3, up to a maximum of 5 million, we do not need to establish a new agency in Slovenia, because we currently have too much in Slovenia, as this creates additional costs, which are an important part of the money collected for their own operation. The current system is more rational and has a major strategic and operational control function, a promotion council composed of representatives of NGOs: three representatives from the agricultural area, three representatives from the food processing industry and two representatives from the Government. Operationally the most important documentation, this is a strategic promotion and then an implementation plan, is prepared by an organisation to be selected at a public competition. This is about relatively small money. They will have the opportunity to run for office in both the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies, the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture and similar institutions. It is important that we also find a solution to how to essentially define the contribution collected across sectors. Indeed, a sectoral contribution that can also change over the years is important. The law has a good solution, that is, to define the maximum contribution, although it may be substantially smaller. And the contribution is defined in a way that takes into account, through the groups covering the sectors, this opinion, given to the Government and adopted by the Government as a government regulation for the following year. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me stress again, this law, although a small law can be seen, also the amount of money collected in this way, 3, 4 or maybe 5 million is much smaller than the amount of money invested by the Slovenian state in Slovenian food production, which is up to EUR 410 million per year. It is this law that can have a very positive effect on food production, which is strategically important for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u144	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished vice-president, distinguished minister with co-workers! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as the parent working body, considered the draft law at its 27th meeting on 26 February of this year. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, representatives of the Law and Law Service, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies, the GIZ Meat Industry, the Association of Slovenia, the Wine Society of Slovenia and the Trade Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a number of general and specific comments to the proposal for a law. The main part of the concrete comments was taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, amendments supplementing the proposed content in a way that the content of the law is more appropriate, and the Committee also adopted the debate. However, the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food provided an extensive explanation of the reasons for their substantive definitions. As material, members of the Committee also received comments from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which also presented the views of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia. The Commission and the Chamber proposed that the promotion of wood and wood products should also be included in the promotion scheme, as this sector also has a low price for wood and wood products due to extremely poor promotion. On this point, the Ministry explained that this area would be incorporated into the law later when the law was already in full operational implementation. In the debate, the Committee, with the amendment adopted, took into account their comments that the contribution from the primary agricultural products should also be accounted for by the contribution to the horse head, and the Committee also supported and adopted the relevant amendment to amend the criminal provisions. In the debate on individual articles, the members of the Committee agreed that the law on promotion in Slovenia was urgently needed and the proposed solutions were sufficiently compromiseable and made sure that the law would be operational and effective so that it would produce positive effects, especially for farmers, because most of the crops were forced to be sold on the domestic market, where they also faced great competition and the choice of products from foreign producers. Despite the principle of support for the adoption of the bill, some discussers considered that the text of the law was not fully aligned with all stakeholders and that the proposed solutions would in fact lead to additional financial burdens for farmers. In the opinion of some discussers, the law also raises concerns about whether the expected effects will be achieved with the funds collected by agricultural producers and whether the system will be so effective that we can promote food produced in Slovenia through quality schemes and voluntary indications and thus raise awareness of consumers. Conciliation support was also given to the proposed solution, after which the promotion will be carried out by a well-known institution selected by the Ministry at a public competition, not by a specially established agency, as envisaged in previous versions of this law. However, it is also doubtful whether the contractor selected in the invitation to tender will approach the implementation of the professional promotion tasks in a way that will ensure tangible results, not just bureaucratic performance of the tasks assigned. One of the Committee's comments was that the promotion of game should also be included in the promotion system, bearing in mind that we have organised slopes and breeding grounds in Slovenia and also organised processing of this meat. In accordance with this comment, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled the relevant amendments, namely Articles 3 and 11 of the Act. As it is said, the Committee supported in the debate all the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as some others, in accordance with the discussion and taking into account the comments of the Commission of the State Council and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, and the Committee also adopted some of its amendments. All the amendments adopted were included in the amended bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Excuse me, SD. It happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. So in our parliamentary group, we really want to express our satisfaction that the Minister has managed to harmonise all the views of the stakeholders in the drafting of the content of this law and to draft the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products in the way that we today also have put forward for consideration by the National Assembly. This is particularly important because it is a matter of regulating relations in the food chain where it is extremely important to harmonise the interests of agricultural producers and the food processing industry and their representative associations or NGOs. This is particularly important because we find in all the analyses and reports on the situation in agriculture that there is a great deal of difficulty both in the food processing industry and in agricultural production itself in ensuring sufficient income and thus maintaining effective work both in farms and in the food processing industry. The law itself was almost 11 years old and much effort was put in place at that time, in particular to try to transfer the Austrian model to Slovenia in some way, which proved not to be the most successful, as Slovenia is still a two-million-dollar market, where agricultural production is around 74,000 farms and food products production is around 400 companies. In addition, the natural properties in Slovenia are such that, to a large extent, they prevent the cheap production of agricultural crops and foodstuffs. All of this had to be taken into account if we wanted to draft a law that could be implemented in the interest of all stakeholders in this food chain. Although the adoption of the law would have been necessary at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union or even at the very stage of preparation for entry into the European Union, because when the market opened when customs had been removed, of course, this was best known in the income situation of the food processing industry and, last but not least, the primary agricultural production itself. To a large extent, it has tried and improved the situation by appropriate subsidisation, but in the long term we find that the open market brings more demanding tasks for our producers as well. Therefore, the main objective of the law of promotion and agricultural and food products is in particular to increase the sale of such products in both domestic and foreign markets. In the parliamentary group, we want our producers and processors to offer mainly healthy food; no preservatives, no dyes, stabilisers and similar additives. And as manufacturers of safe food, Slovenian companies could even be at the world summit or, if you like, at the European level by means of systematic promotion. Of course, we consider the essential solutions to the law to be the agreement on the allocation of funds, half for the general promotion and half for the quality scheme and voluntary designations. In particular, primary production is not co-financed or promoted by public funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia at the doors of the processing industry, which means that products exported are not co-financed or promoted by public funds. An important provision in this law is also extremely flexible for sectors, according to their needs, as it often happens that in a given year the situation in one sector or another changes and this law allows for greater flexibility in decision-making to take account of interest in a three-year period, as far as the operational programme itself is supposed to be adopted. It also seems particularly important to us that the funds collected are not spent on the functioning of institutions such as, say, an agency or the like, but rather that they are actually devoted to promotion. We will therefore support the amendment of the coalition in the parliamentary group, which also includes the savagery and the participation of the food processing industry, which is organised in the form of economic interest associations. We will also support the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and, of course, the law as a whole later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u147	Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! We drafted a law on generic food promotion in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group a bad year ago. So a law that is quite similar to what we are dealing with today. In the debate at the time, it turned out that we urgently need legislation that will make us at least roughly comparable to neighbouring countries in this area. Production, production and processing of agricultural and food products in Slovenia is known to be an important economic, social factor. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, imports of agri-food products into the Slovenian market have increased so that competitive pressures on domestic suppliers have already led to a deterioration in the economic situation of certain production sectors. Slovenia's entry into the European Union, on the other hand, has also encouraged new opportunities for more intensive performance by Slovenian agri-food providers in the European Union's single market, but so far the results are modest. We probably all agree that in the agricultural field in general we need to do something fundamental, because we have a declining number of agricultural holdings, we have a fragmented parcel structure, we have a declining share of self-sustainment, we have a growing cultural and cultivated landscape, in short, most indicators, if not nearly all, are negative in agriculture or at least close to it. I think that the country in this area should do more on this proactive side in order to offer measures to take advantage of what Slovenia currently has in the sector, which is in great difficulty, which in fact cannot exercise any competitive advantage. So, agricultural production in Slovenia deals with about 77,000 farms and the production of food products is around 400 companies that employ about 17,000 people, and all of these are virtually uncompetitive on the market. We are extremely small compared to the European Union's single market and all other neighbouring countries are investing significantly more in the promotion of food. To make it easier to imagine what this means compared to our neighbouring countries. In Austria, there are 50 people working in this area, i.e. in the promotion of food, and they have a budget of 20 million euros. Italy has €50 million from the budget, Hungary has 35 employees and around €6 million each year is spent on food promotion. Germany spends 100 million euros a year, France has quite 300 employees, not only in France, but also in other countries, in 34 other countries, and they promote their own trade marks, spending about 55 million euros. So if we listen to all these numbers, then we can imagine where the Slovenians are and how much our products are known at home and around the world and how much we are committed to it. So far, we've done virtually nothing. We tell the Slovenian consumer by this law that the use of Slovenian food is beneficial not only for producers and processors, but for each consumer individually, while this is one of the competitive advantages that neighbouring countries are already exploiting for us, I am sorry. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is right for all those who have any ambition in the agricultural field to sell, to produce, to market, to participate in the creation of the proposed fund, because it is in fact for their own good. If there is better sales, there will be more production and eventually more self-sustainment in the Republic of Slovenia. Since the law pursues similar objectives as we have drawn up in the generic food promotion law, we will also support today's law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u149	Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u150	One more nice hello to everyone. Allow me to begin by expressing my own satisfaction at today's consideration of this law, says the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products. I'm glad he's a magician. The Jews managed to reconcile what had been very difficult in the Slovenian space for many years. All stakeholders required to adopt this law have expressed their support for this law and agree with the main solutions enshrined in this law. As colleagues said in previous discussions, we also estimate in the Slovenian People's Party that this law should be adopted, building on the confidence of the Slovenian consumer in Slovenian food production and Slovenian agricultural and food products. Self-sustainment has already been mentioned, and it is also certainly necessary to do everything possible by means of such a law, especially in the case of articles that can achieve higher self-sustainment in the Slovenian space, so that the Slovenian consumer also recognizes the advantages of quality and healthy Slovenian food. The main objective is to promote a widely represented national quality scheme or voluntary label and thus labelled products. This promotion also requires adequate financial resources or the participation of all sectors, as required by European regulations, and in this way public funds can also be included in the promotion. The Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, as I have said, has been in preparation for almost a decade and today we have before us this version, the main quality of which is that it is relatively well coordinated among all stakeholders, including NGOs in the field of agriculture and the food chain. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that we must take a step forward in this area, despite the fact that someone can also tell us that we are adding an additional levy in agriculture this year, given the difficult conditions in agriculture. However, as I have already said, this is the way, this is the way in which public funds can also be activated, and we are convinced that this is a good, positive effect for such funds used, because in every business, there are also means of promotion. And in this part, we actually have this opportunity to get these funds from the budget, in part also from the stakeholders, so to speak, from the agricultural producers and from the food processing industry. However, the law also has this quality that it sets maximum rates and that it is a matter for stakeholders to agree on sectors at what level these funds will be spent and that virtually every sector in the balance sheet for a period of three years also has a fair use of resources, and I think that this needs to be supported. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we express a certain concern about the provisions on the level of funds, because we believe that the current provision should be amended by a maximum of 50% in accordance with our amendment, namely that this amount is at least 40, ensuring that it does not end up with just 5% or 10%. However, it can also go up if the financial resources of the budget are available. In this way, we could also provide support for those where over 50% can go, that this is also possible and is not limited by law, or this is also an annual arrangement. We therefore propose an amendment to this article of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have also tabled an amendment, whereby we want representative stakeholders to be also economic interest associations, which are very strong, both for milk, meat and wine. And I am pleased that this is also supported by the coalition, which means that we expect this amendment to be adopted. I was also pleased that the coalition has announced support for our amendments, and in the Slovenian People's Party we will support the amendment of the coalition concerning the promotion of the game. We have also received data on the number of these savages, so we can see that this is an area that has a critical mass and is worth supporting. Also, from the entire report of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, it is clear that we will also fully support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u151	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. He also greeted the Minister with his associates. Colleagues and colleagues! After almost 11 years of waiting, we have before us the proposal for a law on the promotion of agricultural and food products. Congrats, of course, are valid for the minister and the co-workers who have been preparing the law. This is a proposal which, despite some open issues, still experiences the principled support of all stakeholders. In general, taking into account the weight and the situation in which Slovenian agriculture and the food processing industry are located. As in Austria and some other European countries, our proposal for a law seeks to regulate the promotion of agricultural and food products in accordance with European Union rules. This is a proposal for a law that needs to be understood as part of the process of regulating the relations in the food chain, which provides basic infrastructure for promotion activities, ensures its funding and leaves it to decide on the extent of funding, the payment of individual sectors for promotion and the content of the promotion of individual sectors. The proposal for a law introduces 2 forms of promotion: the general promotion and promotion of quality schemes or voluntary indications in cases where other primary products included in it go beyond the threshold set by the decision of the Government on the proposal of the Promotion Council. The following sectors of primary agricultural production are included in the promotion: milk, meat, bread, fruit, vegetables, grapes for wine, olives and honey. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber points out that the law covers only the area of agricultural products and does not include wood or game. The Ministry proposed that the promotion of wood be proposed to include this law later when the law is already in full operational implementation. With regard to the planning of the promotion, the proposal provides for the adoption of a six-year strategic promotion plan and a three-year implementation programme. The promotion will be financed by the collection of a mandatory contribution paid from primary agricultural products by agricultural holdings and the food processing industry in equal shares in the earmarked budget line. Up to 50% of the amount collected will further contribute from the integrated budget with the budget item "for promotion" by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. With regard to the organisation of the promotion, the proposal for a law establishes a council for promotion, consisting of two representatives of the Government, two representatives of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, one representative of the Association and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Enterprises. The promotion will be carried out in a way that will enable the Ministry of Public Procurement to select a promoter to prepare proposals for all documents related to the implementation of the promotion and to coordinate the performance of individual activities in public calls by the selected promoters. With regard to the collection of contributions, the draft law provides that the calculation and payment of the contribution will be carried out in food processing establishments which will be charged for the quantities of primary products purchased and processed at the level of half of the specified contribution and the other half will be contributed by the food production industry or establishment. The contribution of primary producers will be earmarked for the financing of quality schemes and voluntary indications, while the contribution of the food processing industry will be earmarked for the financing of a common general promotion over half and the rest for the promotion of quality schemes. For the fruit and vegetable sectors, a contribution from the surface will be collected and made by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development by a decision. According to the DeSUS Group's assessment, the proposed solutions are sufficiently compromiseable and provide assurance that the law will be operational and effective so that it will have positive effects especially on farmers who are forced to sell most of the crops on the domestic market, where they face a lot of competition and the choice of producers of foreign producers. We believe that the proposal for a law needs to be understood primarily as an instrument for establishing and strengthening loyalty between buyers and food producers, and that is why we will also support the proposal for a law in our parliamentary group. We will also support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party and the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u153	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues, co-worker and co-workers! The Act on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products is intended to regulate the area of promotion of agricultural and food products and to establish and promote a national quality scheme. However, adequate financial resources or financial resources from specific sectors of agricultural and food production, such as milk, meat, fruit, vegetables, wine, olive oil and bread, will need to be provided for such promotion. The law proposes that general promotions and promotions of quality schemes be financed: 50% from the State budget and 50% from contributions from the food processing industry or contributions from sectors, i.e. farmers and processors for whom a quality scheme or voluntary designation is prepared. Contributions will be collected at the dedicated budget line at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which will also select professionals and promotion tasks for the proposed period of six years. A promotion council will be established, which will be composed of the presidents of individual sectors. Unfortunately, a number of issues and dilemmas are raised around the contributions and their accounting. While the Minister claims that the proposals in the law and the basic solutions are in line with non-governmental organisations, of course he does not. The delays and objections to certain solutions have included such cooperatives, chambers of agricultural and food companies, the Farmers' Union, the Vineyards' Association and some others. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that some solutions will be an additional burden for certain categories of farmers, which, as usual, will always be the shortest. Most Slovenian farmers are difficult to date and live on the edge of survival. Any burden with contributions, taxes, whatever, will only make their existence worse. Therefore, in the Slovenian national side, we believe that objections to the Farmers' Union, the Associations of the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies or proposals for different solutions are justified. Let's just mention the basis for the creation of the contribution rate, the imbalance between contributions from individual sectors is a relatively inappropriate way of collecting contributions and so on. In short, although the purpose and purpose of the bill are acceptable, in the Slovenian National Party we believe that such a proposal in such content and form does not represent the best solution for the Slovenian farmer and Slovenian agriculture so that it can be better prepared, better prepared and harmonised, and that it will not provide higher food security, and even less will ensure lower food prices, which, as we all know, have jumped abnormally to endanger the food safety of most Slovenes, and would need reasons and solutions to look elsewhere, which is obviously not working for this government and this ministry. The issue of professional competence and the real will of the Government and ministries is even raised to help a small Slovenian farmer. Therefore, and for some other reasons for which there is no indication of time, we will not support such a bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u155	Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice promotion greetings to the minister and his team. Let me put it this way in the introduction that the Ministry has certainly achieved success, progress, and a story that has been brought into Parliament for a long time by consensus. And since we like to refer to national interest, then it is certainly a national interest that citizens and citizens of Slovenia eat good, quality, home processed food. I am sure that the vast majority of us in this hall will recognize this interest in the draft law. Today, of course, the promotion of Slovenian agricultural crops is fragmented, non-systematic, so of course we are pleased that after more than a decade of efforts in Slovenia we will also get the necessary law, which will mainly finance the general generic promotion of agricultural and food products and also promote quality schemes for voluntary indications and protected products. History has to be said that this is a third attempt at legal regulation in which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has reached a minimum of consensus between all factors in agriculture and the food processing industry. That's the progress, that's the way and that door leading us forward. This consensus is a prerequisite for marriage solutions, in particular those relating to financing, to be brought to life in practice and to deliver results. Therefore, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, once again from this city, we offer all recognition to all who have been able to overcome their concerns, to learn the positive consequences of such promotion, including for themselves, and, of course, to allow this agreement to be achieved by their conduct. On the other hand, respectable citizens and citizens must be told that, unfortunately, we are already very late with the law. The fragmented Slovenian agricultural production and, on a relatively large scale, the modest but important Slovenian food processing industry would need such a promotion under the conditions of the open market, competition with the most important European food processing companies, and deserve it even before we entered the European Union. However, we will obviously get the law in a short time, and we welcome it, we will also contribute votes, and we need to improve the information of domestic consumers in particular, the production and processing of food and, of course, everything related to quality, safety, and the specific characteristics of the food benefits of Slovenian agricultural and food products. Of course, success is not achieved overnight, and this will be achieved gradually. Estimates are that the law can produce results there in about three or four years. However, it also seems important to me to point out that for primary producers, i.e. farmers who, together with processing companies, will be committed to contributing to the individual sector, are more important to promote quality schemes than generic promotions and, of course, voluntary indications. Because in this way we will also promote protected products if their production reaches only a certain extent. Therefore, in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also understand their smaller understanding of the need for generic promotion and their concerns about it. On the other hand, we also understand an important part of Slovenian food producers who want to promote the general characteristics of good and healthy food. We therefore welcome one of the basic guidelines of the law that three quarters of the promotion is intended to promote quality schemes and voluntary indications as well as protected products, i.e. promotion of Slovenian agricultural and food products, of course without exposing individual brands or producers. In the Liberal Democracy, we want the law to be successfully implemented and the promoter to be as creative as possible in its implementation. Such good, constructive proposals and legal solutions are, of course, supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u158	Nicely greeted! The Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products will be supported by at least two non-connected Members and colleague Willi Rezman will explain his reservations to this Act. The view was expressed that this would be some kind of protectionism and that we disagree with our colleague Žnidaršič. We believe that the law on the promotion of agricultural and food products is, by its kind, a necessary measure, which may only indirectly plague the flood of low-cost products that weaken the shelves of our shops and stands by imports of products that are not only low-cost, are also controversial about the quality and all the criteria that the consumer wants. With the designations, the corresponding transparent indications, without this law, might have prevented a number of buyers from purchasing low-cost products from abroad. The national quality scheme will produce certain results and we therefore support this law. However, it is controversial and questionable — or, as we say, questionable — the scheme itself. Optimal percentages for stakeholders, whether 50 % of the country is too small or too large, which is the share of primary producers, processors and so on. Time will tell, perhaps in a few years, whether we've made the right cut and cut and the right percentages. We are far from the time when we have saved the products of'made and Yugoslavia', if I may say so, indirectly Slovenia with protection duties. By entering the European Union, we have adopted the doctrine of the free market, free goods and services. Food production is also subject to this law. Unfortunately, this free market does not work as optimally as we may have imagined. Many services products, especially in the food processing industry, result from dumped prices, prices arising in non-comparable environments. Perhaps over the years there will be another time when we will think about a species, if not for Slovenian protectionism at least. These are for once more reflections, but the flood of low-cost products seriously threatens Slovenian national identity. If this law at least indirectly contributes to improving the position of our producers, we will be happy to continue to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28 February 2011. I am putting to the debate first Article 3 and the two amendments of the members of the coalition and the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? I can't see my hand. I'm opening the application. Mr. Campus, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u160	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course I'll support the coalition amendments. It is true, though, that this promotion that we have on the table today has been coming to Slovenia lately. It is nice to try to check our neighbouring countries – of course I am bordering on Austria – for several decades now, these things have been arranged there and in all areas, not only in the food field, but also various other promotions such as the promotion of wines and other home-made products relating to nutrition. I am particularly pleased that today we can see that the law is prepared so that it looks transparent, so it is a public invitation to tender, that our country and all other actors who have something to say about this agricultural policy contribute to this. I am also pleased to see the participation or agreement of all the assembly organisations and other organisations representing, in general, those involved in agricultural policy. The purpose is to build a public opinion of what our home diet means and what it means for us to produce. True, though, it is possible to look back a little. So, my colleagues have discussed quite vehemently, especially those from the opposition, the need for this law, which brings better promotion and recognition of agricultural products and so on. I join them that it is important to know about healthy, home-made food, especially in Slovenia. But it is true, as we have seen from the debate, that this law has been on the table with us for decades in Slovenia, and, of course, it is also necessary to ask why only now, under this government, under this minister of mags. To Diane the Jew and his team. What is the possible damage caused to agricultural production, by the fact that the bidding was present. Some will have to look a little at their responsibility — those responsible for this agricultural policy — and I think it is clear for a long time that this law is justified and necessary. That is why I expect him to receive all-round support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the Minister with a team, a colleague and a colleague! I certainly agree with the need to support the amendments, because they are essentially more editorial in nature, because they list some of the things the legislator has forgotten to mention in the bill, and we have added this to the Committee on Agriculture. The law, as colleagues have already mentioned, has finally seen the light of the world. In the opinion of some, it is too late, but in my view this law is not the only one to revive or correct the critical situation in agriculture. Certainly agriculture is stifled by price imbalances, although the Minister has already presented several proposals for fair relations in the chain from villas to forks, i.e. from the producer to the consumer, but I am very afraid that there will be no stopping in the middle of the road, as other ministries must be involved. The crisis is in Slovenian agriculture, where we achieve only 30 % of our self-sustainment in most areas, in some areas we have a piano balance, say, in milk we are physically net exporters, and we are price net importers, we have to seriously think about this information, so we export milk, we export it more than we import, and what we import is significantly more expensive and financial impact is negative. Some visible sign that the product is Slovenian, that it is promoted under the Slovenian promotion scheme, is not enough. However, if a price is built on it and anyone who touches it is willing to make a profit in this product, i.e. in the entire chain, the final victim will be the consumer and producer. It is not to be forgotten that at the last major increase in food prices due to natural disasters in the main producer of cereals, the resulting more expensive bread and feed that occurred on the Slovenian market again some new price imbalances, i.e. feeds, fuels, protective products were encouraged, redemption prices, for example, in the area of pigmeat were 18% lower, the buying-in prices for us poor buyers and 10% higher. Who here has a beautiful mouth, too big an eye, to investigate the Ministry's professional services. When the world’s food was irritated by some X percent, we had X plus 13. This means that there are still a number of other irregularities that occur in this food chain. All these irregularities will destroy the effect of one measure, which is called 'promotion of food of Slovenian origin'. We cannot help but say that in Slovenia the buying-in prices of milk are lower than 5 cents in relation to comparable neighbouring countries. And in the end, I might add this, the customers will use logic and they'll go, they'll go shopping with their heads and feet, not on the basis of the commercials that big malls are forcing, forcing our menu, we're always bombarded somewhere in the subconscious that we need to buy exactly that and that. Although the inspectors might also find that this is not always the best, and perhaps some other quality rule would have been introduced if, for example, a scale, as old as the food, fell so much. For example, a highly promoted sale of pig meat originating in Austria, which is already visible in physical appearance, could also be found by an inspector without much experience that it has been repackaged several times and is old and sold at almost the same price as fresh meat. Here I do not mind if this is put on the market if the services find that this meat is still healthy, but should its price fall accordingly. Because, in fact, we are saving Austria's agriculture, on account of it, I would have misinterpreted these domestic buyers. These stories, these relationships, the buyer-seller is even more, and if we help with this law to move at least one step to improve the status of Slovenian agriculture, where it is necessary to protect the position of the farmer, to even want to grow in such bad conditions, and the buyer, so that it will not happen again, what some have already announced is that it will be paid again for every single thing in Italy and Austria. If we don't take the other steps, then the marriage itself will come to an end. I certainly support the Minister's intentions that by doing so and some of the other measures that he is preparing to have a happy hand to bring them through the process and to find a hearing with other ministries, I am afraid that he will have a very difficult job, at least in the light of yesterday's experience, when I asked his colleague a question from which it was not clear whether it was a question for Mr Jewan or for the Minister of Economy, so, probably to the finger, I referred the question to Mr Minister. I insist that she responds to me, because it was not the Minister's intention to deceive the buyers, but by trade that did not belong to the Minister's field. And until the order is there, our farm will be threatened. Then, for free, we will be preparing broad debates on rural growth, on poor self-care, on poor food quality, on poor eating habits, and we will, in fact, adopt well-intentioned laws with fig in our pocket and the final result will be zero. So, support for the law and support for the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. The amendments to Article 3 refer to the addition of game breeds to the promotion scheme. This is one of the things that we have seen on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food when we have considered this law, and that is why an amendment is being drafted. So we can really talk about everyone who participates in the entire food chain, that they will be involved in the promotion of their products and, finally, I think they will be even more committed to even better crops. The fact is that Slovenia is an extremely forested country, which, according to the European Union, is an average number of forests. And it is right that we also try to market this part of the Slovenian space through a game that is otherwise cultivated in the hills. At the same time, this is also one of the activities that can be carried out in remote areas, in rural areas, where there is less scope for quality agricultural production. However, this is an opportunity that people are also trying to take advantage of for their survival and existence in such areas because of natural circumstances. I think that this amendment further improves the text of the law, which has already received exceptional broad support today in the debate in Parliament. At the same time, let me say that I will also support the amendment summarizing the debate on the Committee on Agriculture concerning the inclusion of economic interest associations among representatives. Indeed, food processing companies are also often organised in economic interest associations, and it is right to include all stakeholders in this promotion cycle. NGOs play an extremely important role in this regard. In this way, we are also expanding the range of NGOs involved in promoting agricultural and food products, and in this way we are improving the content of the law itself. By supporting both amendments, there are actually three amendments, two are identical, both human parties and coalitions, because I think they are really improving the text of Article 3 and the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you. Since it is still of interest, I am reopening applications for debate on Article 3 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Brultz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Of course, I will support the amendment, which includes wildlings and all that is related to the cultivation of game in the wild. It may also be necessary to think further about farms, shells and what we have in Slovenia. I will also support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which speaks of an economic interest association which must also be present in this law. There have been quite a few speeches on matters that do not fall under this law, which speaks of the promotion of agricultural and food products, but we must be aware that we will also have to do much in raising awareness and education to make this promotion of some value in this society. I think that here is the area of primary education and so on, which is always the most evident when we teach children that paper has to be thrown into a basket, then parents have to throw it in a basket. And when a child can read a good quality product label in a store, and this label – it will probably have to be discussed, it must be visible, or even more visible, the label that would mark a product that has certain things, some ingredients that are harmful to health – if it is visible, but not in small, small letters written on the label, then we will also achieve that they will not rape us with products that are "good for Slovenia" or, I will go, "for the Balkans". In order not to make it funny, women were buying perfumes of a brand in Slovenia or then in Yugoslavia, if they bought the same brand abroad, quality was incomparably better. And now I'm going to say, buy a can of Rio Mare in Slovenia and buy a can of Rio Mare in Italy or olive oil, and you'll see the difference in quality and not in price. We can't say that the cheapest is always the best. Everyone can't afford expensive food. I understand that, too. But we're going to enjoy the poison?Oh, my God! You know what happened in Italy with olive oil, oil derivatives mixed into oil, and it was cheap and bought by our citizens. So I bet a lot of congratulations to the Ministry of Agriculture that she finally put this law into Parliament. I mean, if there's no one in my pocket, this law will be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u168	Have a nice hello again! Three amendments have been tabled under Article 3, so that we can say peacefully that there are two amendments, because the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party is identical to the amendment tabled by the coalition in the part where we refer to the inclusion of economic interest associations among the representative representatives of the promotion. We took note of this in detail and were of the unanimous view that it is right that such economic associations, such as an interest association for meat, milk, wine, are also linked, and there are also fruits and many others, that it is right to participate, because they have already done a great deal in recent years to promote and also to implement Slovenian products, crops, products in the past. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support this amendment to this article, which relates to the inclusion of game in those sectors which are also promoted under this law. We can see that these crops or meat in the Slovenian space are already close to a thousand tonnes, so it is probably also the right assessment that the critical mass is already so large that it is actually worth these products, which also on a variety of farms, which have difficult operating conditions, represents an additional source of income. However, I also consider that in the Slovenian space there is a good trend, which I think in the last two, three years, that it has been established that it is from that approach, sometimes I could say, perhaps a little too liberal in the field of agriculture, food, but this awareness has only begun to start out that there is a need for sufficient strategic production of food in the home country to have this food in many areas, it is said that self-sustainment must be in several areas at a higher level than today, and that part of this support to this awareness is also this act of promotion in agriculture. As has already been said today, in agriculture in the past there are many things that have been done right, and I also agree that there are many things that have been done wrong, but in the basic achievements of this century, with the successful introduction of the system, there are also incentives for agriculture, which are now transferred to agricultural policy measures, that in fact Slovenia was aware at that time that it is necessary to provide funds for the functioning of agriculture, that sufficient resources should also be found in the budget and that, particularly in the mandate from 1996 to 2004, there is a very good implementation of these measures. However, in recent years many things have happened in the area of the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture, it is also true and certainly a lot needs to be done in the field of promotion. Once again, I reaffirm what I have said before in my position, that I think that a great step has been taken, that stakeholders have been able to agree with each other, and I hope that there will also be a happy deadline for this work in selecting the promoter who will be selected by the Ministry in the public contest, and that I hope that the participation of the Ministry's stakeholders will be so creative later on with this promoter. From the point of view of the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support the provisions and amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Jelinčič also spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The amendment is smart and meaningful if a person supports a complete marriage, but the complete marriage is bad. After all, 50 % of the funding will be borne by the State and 50 % of those who produce food do not process food are ordinary pigs. The fact is, we should burden the one most serving in food production, that is, merchants. But no, we're gonna hit the farmer. And everyone agrees to hit the farmer. Fine. A man would expect more intelligence here in the National Assembly. Really! But no, the main thing is to do something, and then we'll move on. The merchants will not, they will not be burdened again, they will be burdened by farmers, they will be burdened by those who work the least that they deserve, but they will be most burdened. After all, it is a fact that the best promotion of good quality, but with additional burdens, with financial, we will not achieve good quality, especially if we throw ourselves and show that we are making olive oil. The only olive oil in the world is olive oil, because olive oil is a tree, olive oil is a fruit. It's not olive oil, it's olive oil. In the Faculty of Pharmacy, anyone who would say that we have olive oil immediately goes down and doesn't pass the exam and it's over. But we're cutting trees. Now we're going to have no more apple rain, but apple juice. And that's really nice. That's great. Let us have and make a promotion from what no one else in the world has. Let's do something new and we'll be really inventive and real. After all, why not invest in the action, buy Slovenian, make good food, why not? Domestic food is cheaper and has to be cheaper, now we will burden it with additional costs to make a promotion. Where are we gonna do the promotion? In South Korea, where will Pahor attach Slovenia to the Croatian pavilion and will 30% be Slovenian, 70% will be Croatian? It is questionable whether the Slovenian flag will even win there, because not long after that, maybe half a month or more, there was something similar in Israel. Promotion of Croatian-Slovenian tourism. We had a stand together, they had it all in the hands of Croats, there were two Slovenian prospectuses around the corner. Well done, Mr. Pahor, that's how it's done. We'll hang back with the Croats, jump together. Croatian food and Slovenian food. There will be no Slovenian, Croatia will be promoted, probably for Slovenian money. That's what we do in this country. We destroy what is Slovenian and make promotions for everything else. In order for the ministry to sit down and write a list of certain dishes, which are actually only Slovenian, and from this make a promotion, no, not that. If anyone makes a promotion, it'll be done by farmers, on their own. We're not doing anything, gentlemen! If anything can be broken, we're going down. If anything can be done, we will certainly do so that nothing can be done. These are things we simply cannot accept. That's not how it works. This is essentially how all those who oppose Slovenian food get their place. The city gets a certain product in such a way that it is exclusive, that it is good, that it is rare and that it is something special. No, we don't want that. We're going to be doing some kind of generalization of some weird, we're going to kick farmers and so on. Please! The country is squeezing in every area. Are we still going to be those poor farmers who already don't have any profit from the food they're producing? Why is food production in Slovenia so low? Because there's no stimulation. But now, if he wants to sell one tunk in Prekmurje, we will also drink him, that he will have to give a certain amount of money for the promotion, that we will even say that he is a tunk, unless the Hungarians remember it sooner, and they will register it, and we will not be allowed to use that name again, as we should not use, say, names like that or anything like that. That's all you want. And to register the neighbouring countries with the kranj sausage, and after all, give way and so on. You have a footpath in Italy. It's not a problem. And they sell it with joy. The only thing we did was steal the ivar from the Macedonians. Um, a very important Slovenian dish – ivar. But at least that worked for some people, but it didn't work for the Ministry of Agriculture, and it worked for a private producer who was smart enough to do it. With that kind of law, I'm sorry, we're not going anywhere. We're not going anywhere and we're not going to do anything, but we can put it all in, but the starting point is wrong. The starting point is completely wrong. If we want to do something, let us not go in such a way that we must strike first at the pocket of the one who works. There's nowhere else to go. We do have some industrial plants, if we still have them, maybe they're gone now, they're already sold, dispersed or privatised to the point that there's nothing in Slovenian hands anymore. That way, I'm sorry, we won't get far. And I think that if the Ministry were to deal with everything they had to say, the Association of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Enterprises of Slovenia, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, the Association of Family Vineyards of Slovenian Winemakers, the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia, the Wine Society of Slovenia, in order not to list even private individuals, then it would be different, but no, it does not matter. The coalition will accept it, everyone will applaud. Then let the next government save all that when it sinks all together. I think the starting points are wrong, the weak and the only one to clap will be Pahor in South Korea, when Kosorje will burn around his neck and say, "Wow, what was good about that cologne, what you did..." I don't know how it goes, but somehow, I was doing an ad for him in Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Just let me have some information. As Mr Jelinčič said, the wrong starting points are only if you are mispromoting Slovenian food. I believe, Mr Jelinčič, that Slovenian food is not wrong to promote and that it will also benefit Slovenia's food space. What needs to be said is whether we have a list of Slovenian food, of course we have it. It is enough to go to the website of the Slovenian Ministry of Food, which is responsible. Is the promotion of Slovenian food a cost? It's an investment. As I have already said today, Slovenia and the European budget for Slovenian food invests 460 million annually. You will understand that investments worth 4 or 5 million are the most desirable investment, which will be the most paid for this Slovenian food. And then what needs to be said is a law that promotes food in Slovenia, a law that cannot promote Slovenian food in Austria, Germany, Taiwan or any other planet. That's probably what those who read the law understand. Whether we are in line with Slovenian NGOs or not. Before you can think of it, you might as well ask them right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you. Yeah, there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We heard an interesting debate. One would simply add that "whosoever humbles himself is the subject of a stranger's heel". For 5 minutes of populism, it was worth plentiful to a Slovenian farmer and to Slovenian agriculture, on the contrary, in the light of someone who was supposed to defend Slovenian interests. For if we do not understand it ourselves, and do not respect it, then we are not well-written. We're at the third amendment. The first part refers to wildlings and wild game. Right and right. I also support the next amendment, the government or the people's party, both going in the same, true direction. Slovenia can never and never compete in the field of food production by quantity, but certainly by quality. Therefore, it is symbolically right to include in marriage and promotion areas that are quantitatively smaller, but still very important. Of those few 10,000 farms that we still have and that we are serious about, it is every and every activity in which it deals and makes it possible to survive. We must say something, however, that, of course, there is still a price to be paid in this story. If we just look at the price, not the quality, then we're in bad shape. A week ago, I was watching a movie. We're feeding the world. It's an interesting documentary. One of the fishermen said, "These fish are for sale, but they are not for food." This is the way this story goes. This is definitely not the case for Slovenian food. In the stores of multinational companies in Slovenia we now have a bunch of fruits and a bunch of vegetables that have certainly grown in the countryside, say, in Spain, in the south, we have only one city that has 25,000 hectares of vegetables, but this vegetables that grow there, I tell you the color, red, yellow and green has so perfect, but this vegetables does not need and does not have, nor does the soil, need. There is a story of glass wool, then of course nutrient solutions, favourable climates and temperatures and more. He doesn't hold on to Slovenian food. Therefore, what is important in this marriage is that critics, to my delight very rarely, overlook — that we have reached agreement. Consent between producers, processors, government and non-governmental organisations as well as the country. You know, on farmers, people understand that if you want quality harvesting, you also need to sow well and that the seed costs something. Everyone in the countryside understands this, and that is why it is not a problem for the seed to give any euro if only the results are good and common. I would therefore like to draw attention here to the attention we need to give to the institutional arrangements under which the expert's professional tasks will be selected for the planning and implementation of the promotion. It is vital and vital that this quality, with the heart of the matter, and that he be highly qualified for his conduct. Some talked about taking money out of I don't know what pockets, compared to what they are investing in promoting food on the Slovenian multinational market, real change. One of my associates was monitoring the interval between 7:00 and 8:00 p.m. this week. One of the world’s multinationals of dairy products at that time had almost 10 minutes of purchases of various products. And this global promotion company on the Slovenian market spends between €5 million and €7 million, much more than we are currently providing with this law, and unfortunately we are not all pleased. However, I will repeat something that I have probably repeated 10 times before – good and quality food cannot be cheap, it cannot be free, but it certainly excuses with its quality. And to repeat that if it costs one beer on one side or the other of Parliament as much as in the countryside a litre of milk, 10 eggs and a kilogram of potatoes together, then there is definitely something wrong with price proportions in that country. Who can change that? First of all, the buyer, the consumer who needs to recognize the quality. And that's what Slovenian food is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As my colleagues have already said, I also support the first amendment, which extends the area of promotion to the restricted area of the wild and the reindeer sector, the wild. At the same time, I think it is important for economic interest associations to participate in the promotion. After all, the association of cooperatives or associations is something similar in that it is a matter of civil society and there it is an economic activity. However, I would like to clarify that I would not like to comment later on the designation of individual crops and products. This is a reaction to what Mr Jelinčič said, which seems to have no idea what language, what names we use for individual crops and products in Slovenia. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language considers the term "olika" and "oliva" to be equal. Even for a tree, although in Slovenia, at least I don't know a man who knows about olives to say olive trees. In fact, it could be an olive tree, which is a funny connection. It is said that we can talk about olives as trees, olives as fruits, can also be olives, but because of the fact that there is a difference between Slovenian and Italian expressions, because the Italians say "olio di olives", olives say olives, fruit, which is why we in Istria are strictly and always used, which is now in Slovenia other than Brd, the main area for olive oil production – by the way, let me say that Slovenian olive oil has already carried a series of gold medals in Verona, in the United States of America, where awards are distributed and so on. So, if in Istria we call olives and not olives, then of course Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble points out that he has no idea what is happening in Slovenia in the field of agriculture, especially not Mediterranean agriculture. And something else, if he claims that at the Faculty of Pharmacy – as far as I know, the faculty is not here, but there is something in the composition of the Faculty of Science – that is why the student would fall on the exam, then I think that this professor should be told that he should go to the Slovenian Book Language course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I thank Breda Pečan for explaining from the place itself and from personal experience that the expression olive oil and olives are Slovenian expressions and that in the Slovenian language we generally act to take on those terms as the first terms derived from the environment where these terms are used. However, I have come to my attention because I want to express my support for the two amendments to Article 3 which is a substitute for the key importance of this law, because this is Article 3 which explains the meaning of the terms. This has also been said about economic interest associations, but let me say something in general about this law, which has previously received such critical assessments. In Maribor we have the Institute for Certification of Integrated and Organic Food Production. I will support any Minister or Minister of Agriculture who will take care of food security in this country. Food is becoming a strategic raw material, and when I look from a social point of view, health care also seems important to me because of the effects that healthy food has on an individual. As a whole, society can save in many ways. Of course, I am also an advocate of good food, as is the minister. Here is where the problem begins that healthy food is not always cheap food. If, in economic interest associations or other associations, associated producers are integrated or organically produced foods have constantly warned that more should be done for promotion and also what should be done to ensure that such food comes into the major trading chains, I can say, from experience, at the best neighbor in Maribor, on the organic policy of beef and chicken. It was only with sadness that I could afford to pay for it, but more than half the population, when the price looked at it, could not afford it. Therefore, it seems to me that the promotion of healthy food is just a first step, and the second step is also to look for ways to encourage and enable the lower price of such food to ensure safety. If I listen to all these many negative experiences from Germany, Spain, Italy, Greece or anywhere else, where every time a scandal breaks out because of dangerous diseases or food materials, then it seems to me that we should actually do more for home-grown food. However, if we were already processing from foreign raw materials, we would also make sure that those raw materials are also traceability, we can ensure appropriate quality. In short, all congratulations to the Minister for this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. It's understandable that I'm going to support this marriage. Of course, there are many reasons why. Even more so, because we were actually expecting this law for quite a long time, and because the requirements of the present time, when food is actually becoming a strategic raw material, are so much more than ever. We know this in Slovenia. I would just like to say that Slovenia, for example, has a similar share of agriculture in gross value added in 2008, 2.4%, together with forestry of course and fisheries, while the average in the EU is 1.7%, while the share of employees is much higher in the EU than in Slovenia. Promotion is important for each activity, and in particular for an activity that is actually at a level such as Slovenia. We have good food, and with this food we can actually be present in other markets and not only in Slovenia. We must be aware of this and also proud to say it. This is not enough for MEPs and Members to talk about, but also for those who are engaged in the promotion, who are trained to do so and who also know how to market their products in the world. We know how and how other food industries came to Slovenia, what is the share on our shelves. I'm afraid it's awfully big. Also, the share of all those working in the media, promotions and marketing is huge and we are aware of how much the Slovenian experts working in this area are in one way also at risk. Promotion is a big investment and, of course, it is so much more necessary and has to be strategic, it has to be planned, it has to be very clear and well conceived. On this amendment, which is under discussion, I would just say that Slovenia has been a very well-known hunting country since then, and the share of hunting tourism has been quite high, and we have been known throughout the world, including in Europe. Food, savage food, of course, we exported it in a large part, I hope and believe that this segment will also be more promoted through this promotion, because it is also part of that healthy food that it is. Finally, Slovenia is known for its good honey, for its highly experienced, educated, quality beekeepers and for its highly controlled honey maker network. I think it's one niche that could be one promotion point in the future. We could work on this segment. I am happy to support the law and hope that the mechanism of operation of the law will work as soon as possible. Of course, it is not ideal, and next year we will probably expect some smart supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 8 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u182	Article 8 speaks of what the State should be like in terms of promotion in agriculture. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are of the view that such a determination, as it is now stated, that the state provides a maximum of 50%, is problematic from two angles of view. First of all, we estimate that it is also possible to finance more than 50% for individual authorised measures, and therefore, if we put the law down, this limit will remain for a time when the political will is possible, especially when the budget allows more resources to be spent. What's even more problematic is that it's not within the law of the lower limit. For this reason, it is very difficult for us to take this position that such a provision is right. There should be a lower limit in the law in order not to end up in such a way that food producers, processing establishments will collect these funds and the ministry will slowly withdraw. I know that there can also be complications with such provisions, given that there may be a fear of farmers and food processing industries collecting too much resources and then it would be difficult to pair with the budget. However, I think that the situation in this sector is so simple that this fear is a little less likely and that that fear is ours, so that it can slowly be reduced in the budget. We therefore propose that this has been established so that the country's share of this promotion is not maximised by 50%, but that it should be determined that it requires a minimum of 40% by the State. That is why we also call on the other Members and Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I will also support this amendment, which in fact, if adopted, somehow commits to ensuring that resources are truly secured from all those items that are also provided for in the law. In fact, the promotion is financed from the State budget, from the earmarked funds collected in the budget from agricultural holdings, but can also be financed by voluntary funds raised. This amendment focuses mainly on budgetary resources and on the need for at least 40% of them. The current law's dictatorship speaks of co-financing from the budget up to 50%, which means that the range can range from nothing to 50%. If we really want to achieve the effect of this law, this amendment makes sense to support it. In particular, because the funds collected from agricultural holdings under this Act are also fully earmarked for the promotion of quality schemes and voluntary designations. By talking about what Mr Jelinčič said earlier, that this law is harmful to farmers and so on, it certainly does not. Every euro that will be invested for our own domestic products, which we normally want to label primarily through quality schemes, will be entirely intended for the promotion of Slovenian products. And if we want to act in the interest of Slovenian food production, then this law must be supported. And it is right that all operators contribute something to the fact that the budget also has a permanent obligation, at least 40% being the one that will ensure it. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 8 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 11 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 38a and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u186	38.a. is primarily committed to clarifying in law the dynamics of individual tasks in order to implement the law, it is said that this work begins. As we have already discussed on the Committee, we have left this matter open in some way, so now in these efforts by the Ministry of Law and Law, as I see, we have managed to determine clear dynamics. From this I see that it takes a bad year for the implementation of the whole law to come after the adoption of the law at the end of all sub-legislative acts, the selection of contractors and the programme. And I think it's right for us to adopt such a clear definition. Following the initial proposal, there could also be some complications in a particular procedure which would lead to infringements of these provisions. I think that this law is now adopted and I will support this amendment myself, because I think it is clear, it expresses this will, which has also been expressed on the Committee and allows the law to be implemented as soon as possible. And I think that today we have given support to the law to those who care about Slovenian agriculture, and we have already done something in the past for agriculture, while those who are obviously in the National Assembly in order to start populism and to speak on average and in spite of every law have the opposite opinion, and if this is also the domain of one of the political parties that wants to win votes to do so, I think that it will not do the Slovenian agriculture much good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 38a? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRODUCTION AND CONCERNING CONFORMITY, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the Minister, but she is not. Maybe she'll join us later. However, the proposal for a law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee, to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as a work force at its 32nd meeting, 25th session. 2. 2011. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Legislative and Legal Service forwarded a written opinion to the draft law, which made specific comments on certain provisions of the bill. The main part of the comments was taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. These amendments, which have also been adopted by the Committee, improve the text of the law and ensure greater legal certainty, without altering the contents of the law itself. However, some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service could not be taken into account because both the Committee and the Ministry of Economy assessed that the proposed solutions in the draft law were appropriate. The amendment has also been tabled by the SDS Group of Members, namely Article 1 of the bill, which also contains the contents of the law, which must be accompanied when the product is placed on the market or when the product is put on the market. The representatives of the Government did not object to this amendment, and the Committee also adopted it in the debate. Some proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia have also been submitted to the Committee, which are of a nomotechnic nature. Two comments are taken into account in the amendments to the Committee and the other comments are not acceptable from a legal and legal point of view and have therefore not been drafted and adopted by the Committee. The members of the Committee did not discuss the individual articles of the proposed law and the amendments tabled. As it is said, the committee adopted some of its amendments and amendments to qualified candidates at the meeting. However, all the amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is also an integral part of the report of the home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the parliamentary position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice welcome to the Minister with her co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law is aimed at harmonising and adapting Slovenian legislation to the new legislative framework of the European Union for products with a view to ensuring high protection of public interest in the field of the safety of products which are available on the market or are already in use. The law follows the following specific objectives: to reduce the number of non-compliant particularly dangerous products on the market and in use; to ensure uniform treatment of dangerous or non-compliant products in the internal market of the European Union; to ensure the reliability and high quality of conformity assessment services; to ensure uniform terminology, more precise definitions and procedural requirements for facilitating the implementation of the law. The Committee also adopted the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which speaks of the need to continue to adapt the relevant instruments to products when placed on the market or to the date of application of the item, which are set out and important in view of the possibility of enforcing the guarantee. For the sake of all this, in particular due to the need to harmonise the situation throughout the EU market, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Lojze Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the distinguished ministers with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, as we will also support all the amendments tabled. It was necessary to amend or supplement the law governing the conditions of placing products on the market and their accessibility. The Committee's explanation showed that this replaces the 1999 law when Slovenia was just preparing to join the EU and since then, there has been a lot of change on the market. Therefore, there is also a need to modernise this law. What is particularly commendable about this law is the removal or reduction of administrative barriers. Therefore, as we say, in the Group of Members, we will really support the bill as well as all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. The basic objective of the proposed law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment is to adapt Slovenian legislation to the new legislative framework of the European Union for products. The aim of the proposal is to ensure high protection of public interest in the field of the safety of products which are available on the market and which are used. This proposal replaces the law now in force, which was passed in 1999, when Slovenia was just beginning to prepare for entry into the European Union. Since then, a broad legal framework has changed. Since Slovenia became a member of the European Union, certain provisions have proved unnecessary. In 2008, the legal framework of the European Union on the marketing of products with a so-called package for products consisting of a Mutual Recognition Regulation was also amended, followed by the Regulation on Accreditation and Market Surveillance and the Decision of the European Commission on a common framework for the marketing of products. An important objective of the new law, which will regulate the placing of products on the market and in use as it is now in force, is to reduce administrative frameworks, for example, simplifying the process of appointing bodies, ensuring compliance, then reviewing the sub-laws of the former Yugoslavia, which can still be applied under the current law or are in force, but are no longer applicable, and abolishing provisions that are no longer necessary with Slovenia's entry into the EU. The proposal for a new law provides the basis for the issue of harmonised rules for products for which there is no sectoral law and also for regulations where there is no harmonisation of legislation, i.e. for regulations for which the Republic of Slovenia considers that they are necessary for the safety and protection of public interest. We don't think it's a disputed marriage. As has also been seen in the debate on the mother body, which was very short and robust, the DeSUS Group will also support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary! There's not much to talk about this marriage. The fact is that the applicable law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment was quite old, that a number of rules have changed in this area and that the need to harmonise the law with the new legal framework is so obvious that something has to be done. It was done. The law before us regulates the placing on the market and use of products is the basis for the issue of harmonised rules and rules where there is no harmonised legislation. A major aim of this law is also to reduce administrative obstacles and, by means of this law, also to purify all sub-legislative acts. Given that a large number of amendments have been tabled to this law, which have wanted to amend and amend the original law, and that all amendments have been adopted with the aim of actually improving this law, of course we do not have any obstacles in our Slovenian national party to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, welcome, greeted by the Minister with a co-worker! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposed law on technical requirements for products and standards, because we believe that it updates and makes sense in its entirety to replace the current regime. According to the law itself, the aim of harmonisation or adaptation with Slovenian legislation is the new rule of the European Union, which follows the provision of high protection of public interest in the field of product safety. The law currently in force has become relatively outdated since it was adopted in 1999, which is also a long time before the entry into the European Union, where it has been completed twice by now. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we welcome the direction followed by the law, namely better and clearer legislation, and perhaps more importantly, the removal of administrative barriers. We therefore also support the solutions provided by law and pursue the objectives of reducing the number of non-compliances, in particular at the level of products on the market, ensuring uniform treatment of dangerous and non-compliant products, ensuring the reliability and high quality of conformity assessment bodies and notified bodies, and ensuring uniformity of terminology, more precise definitions and procedures for requirements for facilitating the implementation of the law. As part of the removal of administrative barriers, it is particularly important to stress that the law introduces clearer provisions which, in particular, enable economic operators to better meet safety requirements and make it easier for supervisors to control everything with a view to ensuring a smooth but safe placement of products on the market. The main solutions concern greater clarity of the definitions and thus facilitate the renewal of the procedures for the designation of conformity assessment bodies and related monitoring, compliance with requirements and accreditation procedures, such as the verification of competence for conformity assessment. A control mechanism shall also be specified precisely, since, as in all procedures, it is only these essential to achieve the required level of safety. In the case of concrete solutions to reduce administrative barriers, we can commend the earlier opinion of the Minister for the issuance of technical regulations and the centralisation of conformity assessment bodies being eliminated. As already predicted, due to our view of appropriate and well-founded solutions, we will also support the proposal of the bill in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, colleague, colleague! The basic reason for adopting the proposed law is in line with European legislation. In addition to harmonisation with European legislation, the current law is simplified so that it is more understandable and transparent, while at the same time reducing and simplifying the procedures for placing the product on the market. The adoption of the law provides for high protection of the public interest in product safety, taking into account the principle of free movement of goods within the European Union, ensuring consumer safety, taking into account in particular the flooding of such or other products from China. The law defines the procedure and requirements for obtaining the authorisation to place the product on the market, appoints procedures and conformity assessment bodies and, last but not least, determines the control of the conformity of the products. The debate on the Committee on the Economy has shown that the law adequately resolves the area under consideration and in the SD Group we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in a good half an hour in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 25th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u202	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We're going to the vote. [[...]] [[Do you mind if we start the session?]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly and we are moving on to a vote on the proposals for decisions that we have discussed today and on your demands that we decide on the answers of ministers and the President of the Government at the next meeting. We move on to the 17th item of the agenda – first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act is suitable for further consideration. Mr. Vizjak, an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation? Here you go. I see there's more reports. Here is anyone who wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Jelinčič, you didn't sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u203	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a second amendment to the Economic Companies Act, which seeks to regulate the transparent operation of companies and, finally, the transparency, transparency and publicity of relations between members of society and society in Slovenian corporate law. Indeed, in the last law as well as in the past versions of the Law on Economic Companies, we have summarised the Institute of Silent Society by German law, although we have virtually no experience with this institution, there is no case law on this institution, even though it is established in traditional market economies. Recent disclosures of extremely conflicted relations and potential conflicts of interest in one case, in the case of Mr Danil Toplek, a prominent member of the Social Democrats and, at the same time, the President of the administration of the Talum State Company, who was at the same time a silent social silent partner of the Ptuj Construction Company, have in fact brought about the problem that this institution can be extremely abused, especially in transition times, when they are ownershipally consolidated and when individuals also have exceptional greed for property and money. We therefore believe that all these relations must be disclosed and, last but not least, the existence of a hidden, hidden relationship between the members of society and between society and society. We therefore propose the abolition of the Institute of Silent Society and at the same time propose that all relations between the members and society are recorded in the register and thus accessible to the public. The Slovenian Democratic Party will therefore support this proposal for a new Law on Economic Companies, because it is significantly better than the alternative offered by the Government. By the way, we also welcome the fact that the Government has finally woken up and responded to this problem, so that it has at least recognized it, but is not sufficiently facing this problem. Indeed, according to the Government's proposal, it is crucial that they disclose the existence of a silent society by silent partners to the supervisory council of a particular economic society. We do know, however, that they are slippery, very slippery supervisory councils and administrations, especially state-owned companies, and we know that many times together they have also run a number of state-owned companies. So, we believe that this alternative offered by the Government will not be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, would you like a word? I ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, does anyone else wish to explain their vote? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now that you've described me so well, my voice will shake. The fact is that marriage is necessary and important. I think that transparency of business and transparency of ownership is a matter of great importance, so we cannot agree on some silent associates who even cascadingly repeat themselves, so that we have silent associates of silent societies and so on. In short, this is the uniqueness of Slovenia, which we should not afford. I think that the hidden associates must come to terms, because this is how a huge amount of financial resources are being allocated from Slovenia, which emerges in various strange variants, various strange accounts in the strange destinations of this planet. I think the abolition of silent societies is absolutely necessary. Of course, the government opposes this, which is logical and understandable, too many of their members are involved in these matters. And so that I don't go too deep, let's just take it so I don't drag Ljubljana and Slovenia's affairs on the road, let's take the question of Hypo Banka. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u206	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u207	question Hypo [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u208	The explanation for the vote is to state your position, why you will vote and explain them, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u209	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Just because what's going on at the Hypo Bank isn't happening, when, say, our gentlemen are involved as silent associates. Or that it does not happen what is happening in this organization of SECI, where other people, like Gerhard Buschek, are in addition to Slovenian silent associates, which is also connected with our gentlemen and from which we do not get any information in Slovenia about what these gentlemen's earnings are, where their income tax goes, or where their earnings go. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, we feel that it is necessary to support the law, at least to find out if we are being stolen, where they are sending their money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I see applications, please, whoever wants to sign up. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The conflict of interest is, in accordance with the European legal order, according to European acts, a corrupt act, and all those who avoid spreading the conflict of interest, thus giving us an objective opportunity to become corrupt and corrupt in some way institutionalised. The whole fight against corruption and corruption is, in fact, smoke in the wind, is just an image, if at the same time allowed by an institution that enables, and legally, this, with a legal basis, concealing key data from the public. That's why these quiet companies are. The Institute of Silent Society allows the real conflict of interest to be masked against the public's small-mindedness, which is in fact the only effective one. It is not sufficient for this data to be presented only to a company body, such data must be public, must be entered in a book and must be accessible to everyone under the same conditions, i.e. online, in the same way as for all the data entered in a public book. For this reason, the only correct, only reasonable and I claim that even if we really want to start fighting corruption, fighting corruption, then the institution of a hidden society, silent societies, because all the rest are just words and smoke in the wind, just creating the image that some work is being done to prosecute corruption while leaving an open niche within which corrupt acts can even have a legal basis. That's really something to worry about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will in any case support this law because we believe it must be supported. Indeed, the situation with regard to these silent partners is, of course, unsustainable. Today, we have witnessed one in the sky, a crying case that will be in our eyes. I believe that such cases are essential more and that, of course, silent associates are not only those in important positions in individual companies that are owned by the State, but also probably other important ones, that I will not tell any important policy that hides as silent partners. That's why this stuff is so hard to move. I believe that the law behind this and that it is sent to the procedure on a proposal from the Ministry absolutely does not solve this problem, because it allows a director in a state-owned company, which is also a private company shareholder, to cooperate in business with this company. On the other hand, we have the Integrity Act, which prohibits municipal councilors from being presidents of a sports society and so on. In short, we go from one extreme to another extreme. Where there's a big problem, we just don't know how to cut things. I believe that this area needs to be resolved and that such an anomaly as this and many others in the Slovenian economy needs to be resolved in order to prevent many of the corruption we are witnessing in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll vote for the law. It is too much to point out that, for a second time, we are drawing attention to the gray fox, the irregularity of an area. At this point, I wonder, as early as yesterday, the President of the Government here called for some consensus to be taken together to address the crisis, to address the crisis. Then those words don't become an act. We just make a proposal and then it's not accepted. I believe that the proposal for this law is one of the conditions for us to create a favourable economic climate. Because, in the current system and on the basis of the examples provided by today's debate, we see that the economic climate is not favourable, that the conditions of business in our country are untransparent, thus, of course, deterring potential investors who would give new impetus to the economy. Free of charge are measures where we're hunting for cents and where else millions are running out our window. It is certainly difficult to identify the silent associates after not being able to be at the same time, say, the mayor and the supervisory council. That's something like that. So, in excluding interests. I'm also interested in the fact that a silent partner has a much greater opportunity not to pay taxes. On the one hand, we'd be hunting for cents again, but here we're hiding the millions that are needed for the economy. I will certainly support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Minister. Everyone else is here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a law on transparency, transparency of the operation of silent partners or societies. Why? Because we have no interest from day to day in arguing about who is co-owner, who is a silent partner in this company and this company because we are interested in that and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u218	Mr. Bezjak, you can try talking more into the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u219	Presidents, I'd say they should keep their voices down, not speak louder.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u220	I've been asking them to keep their voices down. Unfortunately, the president's voice is not sounding well. Breda Pecan, Mr. Bezjak has the floor. The word is Mr. Bezjak, not the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u221	It is from this point of view that we will not argue day to day, who is the silent companion, who is the co-owner of the company and so on. Mainly, the purpose of this disclosure is to pay taxes also to those people who are silent shareholders who then have transactions or giro accounts in other countries. Why is that important? It is important that all citizens and citizens know who is where and who is for what, but not that in the end also with the Minister's proposal to actually expose those who are more than 10% co-owners – no, that is not right [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u222	Do you need more time? Then we'll give it to you. I'd like another half-minute for Mr. Bezjak, because we broke him off earlier, please. You'll have to wait 'cause it turned off your microphone. Do you still need time to explain? [[No, no, ……]] Well, thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, other representatives of the Government. I have already discussed this point in the morning or when I have expressed a clear position that one of these two laws, which is obviously ready, we have one already on the table today, the government has adopted a slightly different proposal from the government, but apparently the government has also realized that something needs to be done in this area. And that is certainly an important conclusion. However, I also said this morning that perhaps this law must be amended in further consideration, and there is something else to be amended. But surely, in my mind, government law is even more than that. For this reason, I will certainly support this proposal of the law at first reading, because I feel that it is absolutely necessary to do so. Indeed, if it were enough control to appoint individuals to individual positions of leadership, especially in state-owned or majority state-owned companies, then probably such laws would not be necessary and in some cases silent societies are also needed. However, since this is not the case, something needs to be done in this area. All of these disproportionate solutions, as I mentioned earlier this morning in the Law on Integrity or Prevention of Corruption, where we allow nothing to a municipal councillor, I do not know what the municipal councilman could then sleep on the couch while he is not serving as a municipal councilman. Usually, those elected are municipal councillors and mayors, and probably also Members, and other beloved functions, which are active in all areas, without which they are likely not to go. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're moving to the vote. Mr. Vizjak? Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u225	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I propose a ten-minute procedural recess for consultation before the vote, following the fact that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed a law that regulates the situation in the field of silent societies and could also regulate a number of covert ties between state-owned looters, which are revealed from day to day. I am convinced that the publication and the data would reveal a number of links if the Government wanted to get them, which the Public Finance Supervisory Commission imposed on it at the end of last year. In particular, the Commission for the supervision of public finances wanted to obtain information on the silent partners of public officials and authorities in the management and control of state-owned companies. The government replied that it would not obtain this information because it did not have any authority to do so. At the same time, the government restricted the prizes, wages, and meetings to the same people several months or years earlier. So it's not true that the government doesn't have powers. The government doesn't want to do that because it probably doesn't want to reveal certain relationships. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u226	Mr. Visjak, please explain why you're taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u227	That's exactly what I'm doing, Vice President, if you don't mind me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u228	I don't understand you because you talk about everything else, just not about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u229	That's what I do if you don't bother me. And I'm asking for 15 seconds of extra time. Slovenian Democratic is convinced that the Government's proposal is more a reflection of the facts than a solution to the problem. That's why she's going to insist and invest in these laws all the time. It's the same law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose a 10-minute recess after considering what you are doing and whether the Parliament and the Group of Members will also be a legitimate tribute to the Government for doing so. I believe that many Members of Parliament here today are being fenced and separated from these works and that there will be only one political solidarity with the Government that will be possible at the same time. I therefore suggest that you reconsider and consider these solutions if you have any better suggestions, upgrade these solutions, propose them in the next procedure, the law is only in the first reading and, of course, let us finally deal with this secret property, society in the Slovenian economy. I propose or request, on behalf of the Group of Members, a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much. First of all, I find that we are done with the explanations of vote. Secondly, the SDS, the Slovenian Democrats, proposed a 10-minute recess for reflection within the parliamentary group. This right is according to the Rules of Procedure and I assign a 10-minute recess. We'll continue at 6:35.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u231	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. The Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group has requested a recess. Would you like a word, Mr. Vizjak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u232	The honourable Vice-President, unfortunately, despite the efforts made to prevent colleagues on the side of the coalition, we will probably only get a few votes on the opposition's side because of this break. Dear colleagues, I am sure that this pause could be useful for you, I have seen you everywhere else, only in the consecrations in the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u233	Mr. Vizjak, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u234	Therefore, I do not think it was a useful investment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u235	Mr. Visjak, please behave with dignity towards this council. You are an old MP, you know why they are breaks before the vote, and do not be unfair to us all and especially to other fellow Members and Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u236	Dear Vice-President, holidays are for consecrations in the parliamentary groups. Of course, I have hoped that in the second correctional examination of this law, we are so mature that we are aware of the dimension of the problem that our proposal solves. At the same time, I believe that by repeating such initiatives that we will be taking in the Slovenian Democratic Party, even on the other hand, it will become clear that the problem needs to be solved and that it is not good to always be in solidarity with the tycoons, who are likely to be doing and doing political damage in the coalition. This bill, which we have tabled and tabled and will be decided on, has very concrete responses and applications in practice. We mentioned one, we mentioned Talum, we mentioned his director, who comes from the SD species, Mr Danil Toplek. I was not aware of any action against this gentleman, who clearly acted in conflict of interest. The National Assembly also advocates the Government, at least seemingly, for very high standards regarding the incompatibilities of performing public functions with profitable activities at both national and local levels. However, no major action has been taken to limit the conflict of interest between state firms and to fill the private pockets of those that manage these companies. This proposal is an attempt in this direction. Surely, Madam President and Vice-President, when you interrupted me in the beginning, it is clear to everyone in this Chamber that I did not take a 10-minute break to consult in our Group of Members, but I wanted another thought among you about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We move to a vote on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the decision has not been adopted, I note that the legislative procedure on the proposal has been completed and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. Mr. Bevk, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I have a procedural proposal for you to give to your fellow Member of the Magi. A visionary reminder because he abused the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the application of the second paragraph of Article 73 may be proposed on behalf of the Group of Members by those who need to think and consult in their own Group of Members, and usually when they do not know how the Group of Members will vote. I ask that because he misused the rules of procedure, you give a warning to your colleague Visian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. I will not give a public warning, even though Mr Vizjak deserves it. But I would ask you, Mr Vizjak, if you'll excuse me, I'm not giving you my word, because now I'm speaking. You are well aware that you have abused the Rules of Procedure because you have called on others to reconsider, and the purpose of the pause is to reflect on the Group of Members. But I'm not going to give you a reminder, because it's all without a hook. But all I have to say is, please, on the right and on the left, or on the right and on the right, give as much as it is possible to preserve the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly, which we corrupt by throwing each other's poles under each other's feet without any hook. Mr. Vizjak, you did this in your own explanation. Now, if I continued with the reminder, there would be much debate again. Let's be patient with each other, we know the Rules of Procedure, we know how to act, and let's stop with a way that's no good to anyone. We are moving on to the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the ID card, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled, this is the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Parliamentary Group to Article 7. Would you like an explanation of vote, Mr Göncz, on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Göncz on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Jelinčich. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Mr. Göncz, you have the floor. Juritudi. Okay. Well, then let me give you time to sign up, who wants to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, please sign up. Mr. Jelinčič, sign up. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. The Parliamentary Group will support this amendment because it believes that the development of technology in the issue of identity cards cannot be a reason to reduce the acquired rights of those who have a permanent residence in a national and linguistically mixed area and who want a bilingual ID anywhere in Slovenia. This option, this right can now be implemented technologically anywhere in Slovenia. It doesn't matter where the person is. It doesn't matter where he's staying. It doesn't matter where he's staying. And it's only about the transfer of justice that comes from this address. In particular, if Ljubljana works in Koper or Murski Sobota, it is self-evident that he will obtain a unique ID card in that administrative unit. If Koprčan or Soboč works or studies in Ljubljana and wants to obtain, technically obtain, his card, it is self-evident that he can obtain this card in bilingual form. Technology makes it possible, there's no dilemma here. So we don't understand why we wouldn't support this amendment. Of course we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti will explain his vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We'll support the marriage. We will also vote against this amendment, after all it is what is equal to what is happening on the other side of the border, both on the Hungarian side and on the Italian side. True, marriage in general is not bad, but it could be better. For example, it's an electronic identity card that contains a chip. Why don't we have laser records? The laser record cannot be falsified so far, while the chip can be falsified quickly. It is also possible to update the data in the laser record, so, for example, a permanent identity card would not be necessary after 70 years, it could have been earlier. After all, I'll be alone there soon when I have a permanent ID ad calendas graecas or if I ever die. I think we can get this thing in place first. The matter needs to be updated, not slowly following technological steps. I think it makes sense for at least the next improvement to introduce not a chip card, but an electronic card. It's different than I said. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u243	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u244	I'll stop right now, Mr. Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u245	No, you're talking about the amendment, and you can have another minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u246	Of course, I can speak – oh, ten more minutes, Mr Vice President, but I will stop immediately. I'm against the amendment, but we're married. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The text is by Mr László Göncz. I believe he'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment will be supported by us because its acceptance ensures that residents living in the national mixed area and applying for a ID card are issued in Slovenian, English and Italian or in Slovenian, English and Hungarian. Otherwise, if the amendment is not adopted, it happens that those who apply for a identity card outside the national mixed area will receive a document without the Hungarian and Italian languages. So our amendment is constitutionally correct and ensures the situation in the spirit of the coexistence of the majority and the national community in the national mixed area. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the specifics of the national mixed area, including external bilinguality, are the values of all the inhabitants to be respected. Therefore, it is not held that, if the amendment was adopted, the rights of indigenous national communities outside the national mixed area would be extended because forms are only being lodged in the Slovenian language in the administrative units outside the said area, in which they are referred to as permanent residents in the national mixed area. The document shall then be produced following a single, central approach and an administrative unit where the application is made, so that it does not work bilingually, if of course it goes outside the national mixed area. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm asking if anyone would like to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? No, in my own name. Anyone who wishes to explain their vote, please sign up. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If this amendment is adopted, nothing shall change in terms of the use of the language of the national communities. Nothing's spreading anywhere. But as has already been said, let me repeat, because it's probably hard to get through the text of the law because it's so legally accurate. If this amendment is rejected, it will happen that those who already have bilingual ID cards, for example, if in any administrative unit a personal ID card, which is outside the national mixed area, would get it, simplifying it, in unison, so bilingual with English, Slovenian-English. Someone who would make a ID card in Cyprus and comes from Ljubljana and has a permanent residence in Ljubljana and also gets a Slovenian-English ID card. Those who live in national mixed areas can only get a bilingual card if they do it in that administrative unit, if they do it outside, only get it in Slovenian language, I simplify it, and all the others who do not stay and who work in Cyprus, but also get it in Slovenian. This undermines subtlely, but very dangerously undermines the concept of ethnically mixed territory. And that's unnecessary. What for?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Without the hope of victory, I will support this amendment because it is clear that the fear of spreading bilingualism and interestingly more Slovenian-Italian than the Slovenian-Hungarian bilingualism is extremely present in this space, as well as looks, throughout Slovenia. But I'm going to tell you on my own case why I'm going to support this amendment. Firstly, I have to explain, paragraph 4 actually refers only to paragraph 2 although it is written that, irrespective of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 or where this identity card is issued. In fact, the third paragraph makes it very clear that only on that administrative unit in bilingual territory can a citizen who does not have a permanent residence or who has a temporary residence get a bilingual card there. While paragraph 2 states that I, who is the permanent resident of Izola, is a bilingual congregation, have the right to obtain a bilingual card. And then in paragraph 4, they say I can't get it in Ljubljana. And that's what happened to me when I went to Ljubljana to order a ID card because I stole it, I got a Slovenian-English ID card, not a Slovenian-Italian-English card, which I would get if I went to Isolo. But at the time it was not written in the law that it could obtain a bilingual card anywhere in Slovenia. Technically it is not a problem at all, it is a fact, but because of some phobia before spreading Italian to Slovenian space, of course, we forget why it actually spreads to Kras and Gorica, because we Slovenians are not able to speak to a foreigner in our own language. Let him learn Slovenian when he comes to Slovenia. But here I personally think that injustice happens to us who [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 7. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 25. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 25.]] The amendment was accepted. Does the representative of the Government wish to propose that the law in the third reading be carried out at this meeting? Excuse me? No, no, no. In view of this decision, we will have a third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the National Assembly. I propose to the Government the following conclusion: since amendments to less than a dozen articles were adopted in the second reading, I propose the adoption of a decision to draw up a law on third reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The government will prepare a proposal for a third hearing to be held at one of the following meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am moving on to the 12th point, this is to the second reading of the proposal for a law on detective activity under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28 February 2011. We are moving on to Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. Mr. Jelinčič, would you like to explain your voice? On behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Zmago Jelinčič will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Although the amendment corrects certain non-consistences in this law, I think it's funny in marriage that, say, someone comes to someone and says [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] It's, say, a detective from Albania. And that's what I'd say to someone, and, of course, that Slovenian guy should fall on the floor, squeeze all four of them, and so on. I think that in the marriage itself there is no Slovenian language, anyone who comes to mind will be able to be a detective who will walk around Slovenia and do what will suit him, but there is no need for him to know Slovenian, because the one who will follow him will have to speak to him in Slovenian, perhaps even in his mother tongue. We have now accepted that the Italian and Hungarian cards will be in all of Slovenia, and the next step is likely to be in Croatia and Germany. Then let us also delete the Slovenian language. He's not in the marriage, let's cross out all Slovenian. I mean, what's going on in the National Assembly is a shame. It's a real shame. I always thought there was a store here for the protection of Slovenian national integrity, but please. Nowhere is any of this, just some slave's variants, except for rare exceptions. The one who knows it's an exception will already know it's an exception, but mostly, I mean, I'm ashamed. I'm really embarrassed. We will support this amendment, but we will vote against the law, because what is happening to these matters is a disgrace to the whole of Slovenia. It's fucking sad, but that's it. Indeed, something like this would not be accepted anywhere in the world, not just in the European Union. Go look in Austria, go look in Italy, Hungary, go look at Croatia, which is not yet in the European Union, and then we will see what it is. True, it is sad, some people have lost their lives to keep something Slovenian, here we leave it all unsettled.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 3, if this amendment is not adopted to Article 3, the amendment to Article 7 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment to Article 3 has not been adopted and the amendment to Article 7 is irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 12 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment to Article 12 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 28 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment to Article 28 is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to the third reading. This is for decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Mr. Tanko, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u256	We have, I think, a vote on Article 33 to the same law. We have tabled an amendment and amended amendment, and it would suggest that we take a look before we move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u257	In the amendment review, I did not receive, Mr Tanko, a moment's notice will be given to see whether the amendment has been tabled. The information is that you've withdrawn the amendment. Mr Tanko, your amendment to Article 30 has been withdrawn, so we have voted against all amendments and we can move on to a vote on the law. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u258	Thank you very much. But we have an amendment to Article 33 not to 30.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u259	The amendment to Article 33, Mr Tanko, has been withdrawn. I have a document entitled "Removal of the Amendment to Article 33 of the Law on Detective Activity", signed, as far as I know, by my own hand, Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the SDS Group. I hope this is a credible document, Mr Tanko, and I can find out that you have withdrawn the amendment. Can I? Thank you very much. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 49 votes against 27. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] The law is contained in the proposed text, it is an amendment to the adoption. We are moving on to the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on private protection, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 February 2011. We turn first to the decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 28. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 28 is not accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 36 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 36 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 51. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 51 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 56. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 56 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 62. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 18. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to item 14 – continuation of the interrupted agenda item, Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28 February 2011. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. The first amendment voted 72 Members and Members, 68 for, 1 against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under point 2. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't know, but I'm looking for something I can't find. I'm looking for corn. I didn't find it, I'll bring it next time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We vote on the second amendment to Article 3. You want a word? There were 63 votes in favour, 53 in favour, 7 in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment under point 3 is irrelevant by adopting the amendment under point 2. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 8 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 72 against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 11. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour and 73 in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 38a. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour and 73 in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted, the amendment has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour and 73 in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The government will prepare a proposal for a third-reading law for the next meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda – third reading of the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and on conformity assessment, under the regular procedure. Since the second reading of the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Conformity Assessment has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals to decide on the answer to the questions raised by Members at the next meeting of the National Assembly We will first vote on the proposal. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in relation to the state of the Slovenian economy. On behalf of the delegation? Mr. Vizjak, an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation? Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u262	I have asked Mr Borut Pahor a question from the Vice-President, the President of the Government, and I have cited 10 specific problems, which concern the Slovenian economy and Slovenian finances, which make it more than obvious that we are going backwards compared to the European Union, with the euro area. Which means that these data are relative, not only because of the economic crisis, namely the entire euro area and the European Union has faced the crisis, but also because of the action and functioning of this current government, since it has been in the period of this crisis for more than two years. I have provided data on the gross domestic product created, on bankruptcy, on competitiveness and the loss of competitiveness. But the most worrying information is about unemployment. While other European Union countries face unemployment levels like before the crisis, such as Germany and other countries, we have doubled the number of unemployed. We also have about 46,000 active workers. These are worrying data, which are not only the result of the crisis and the presence of the economic and financial crisis, but also of the timely, inadequate response of the Government to this crisis. While our export economy is experiencing a number of orders and rises due to recovery in foreign markets, all those companies operating on the domestic market that depend on domestic investment and consumption are stagnating and facing major problems. Concerned was the answer of the Prime Minister in terms of "we are on the right track, we are trying, we are fighting". Dear Members, this fight is obviously barren. Apparently, the President of the Government also needs some views in this House on how to go forward in order to resolve what he can do. It is very bad if the government is convinced that it is successful, but all the data shows the opposite. When I also asked the President of the Government whether he would commit himself to uncovering the secret accounts of these fallen tycoons, such as Mrs Tobělov, Mr Zidar and the like, he said he did not object. He didn't play an active role in dealing with it. We will therefore support the debate in Parliament in the parliamentary group on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We are voting on Mr Andrej Visiak's proposal to discuss the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour, 27 in favour, 44 in favour. [[For 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Bokovic's mission regarding changes in the structure of property owners and property in the border area with the Republic of Italy and the Slovenian Kras. Mr. Bogovich, on behalf of the Group of Members? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u264	I have asked the President of the Government this question, given that we are all monitoring what is happening in Slovenian Kras, and that the civil initiatives coming from this area have drawn attention to this pressing problem and have called on all those responsible, headed by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Pahor, to define this issue. As we heard yesterday in the replies of the President of the Government, the Commission was appointed to draw up a report on this issue, in accordance with the decision adopted at the meeting on 17 February 2011, by the beginning of the month in which we entered today, and to decide whether Slovenia would apply for measures that could be taken within the framework of European policy to protect border areas. I propose that you support this proposal, so that at the next meeting, when the decisions of the Commission drawn up by the Government are already known, we will hold a debate in the National Assembly, and also in Parliament, we will identify ourselves on this issue, and we will support the Government in its efforts to do everything necessary to protect Slovenia in Slovenian Kras. That is why I call on you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal and to hold a debate in this House at the end of the month when the Assembly will meet again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u265	We vote on the proposal for a decision. 71 votes in favour, 29 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the Parliamentary Victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the introduction of a register of convicted offenders against sexual inviolability. Mr Barovic, on behalf of the delegation? Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, which has referred to this content for a number of years now, I call on Members and Members of all parliamentary groups to support the proposal. Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, dear Members and Members, the result of the vote will show how important the soul and body of a child who has suffered the consequences of such acts has been for many years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal by Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, to the questions sent by Mr Pojbič regarding the Inspectorate for the Work of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Pojbich? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this issue, which has been raised on my part, needs to be addressed more broadly in the National Assembly. Of course, there are more reasons. First of all, because I was not satisfied and also the parliamentary group was not satisfied with the Minister's response. The question was based on how it controls the operation of inspection services. The minister responded very poorly. It seemed to me, as well as to the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Group of Members, that there was a need for a broader discussion of this issue in the National Assembly. In fact, as we know, many of the problems have been raised over the operation of the inspection. If we look at recent times, how many businesses and how many workers are in trouble because labour legislation has been broken and inspections have simply not done their job. But then, when we asked the Chief Inspector why they failed to do their job, it was often said, and this is what bothered us the most, that the problem was in human resources malnutrition. And then we get information and data from the media, and Brezovar's answers didn't go in the right direction. We are getting information that Mr Bezovar has allowed himself, unofficially or allegedly, to say that Mr Bezovar is instead of working at lectures in private companies. It's one of the documents. He also taught in Zincarna Celje and so on. Since it is here to understand that Mr Bezovar was doing this during his working time, we have reason to suspect that I will not misinterpret myself, we suspect that there may have been an abuse of labour law or legislation that determines the functioning of the services and of senior government officials. Because we don’t think it’s fair that there are double rules in this country — on the one hand, we have workers who are practically subject to one rule, and on the other hand, to senior officials. That is why it seems to us that this issue is so important that there is certainly a need for wider consideration in the National Assembly. I therefore call on all Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly to support this broader hearing for a reason, because we are all aware every day of how big violations of labour law are taking place, and in the end, those who are in poor employment with the lowest [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Branko Marinič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, to the question of Mr Branko Marinič, on the financial rehabilitation of the Slovenian railways. Mr. Marinic, on behalf of the delegation? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Marinic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The responses of the Minister of Transport and also the Minister of Finance, which I received only yesterday, and the question raised at the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly on 31 January, encouraged the fact that the content of their responses to the topic of the financial rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways should be discussed in the National Assembly. We are concerned about the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, in fact the announcement of the first driver in the Slovenian Government on 6 November in Otokec that Slovenian railways will be financially rehabilitated by the end of 2010. On 16 December, we adopted amendments to the Rail Transport Act concerning the content of investments and the reorganisation of Slovenian railways, all together, provided that Slovenian railways will be financially rehabilitated by the end of 2010, and this has not happened to many. This is how Slovenian railways are exposed today by the media, in a difficult financial situation, and in 2010 they recorded a 20 million loss. As the Government has undertaken financial recovery, it is, of course, another issue, because the documents show how Slovenian railways should be financially rehabilitated and some indications point primarily to the fact that this could happen by reducing investment in public rail infrastructure, which of course was not justified in the proposal for amendments to the Rail Transport Act. Since many other dilemmas and important questions on the Slovenian railways are also opening up in this connection, which could lead the national carrier of the Slovenian Railways to an impossible situation, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the National Assembly is having a broader debate where some answers could be obtained, and perhaps after an emergency, some solutions could be adopted for the benefit of the Slovenian Railways, especially a large number of employees, as the system employs around 10,000 employees today and it would be extremely time to do so. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milan Čadež, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, to the question put by Milan Čadež on transport links put forward. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Chadez? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Chad, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings, everybody, together! We all know that the links between Gorenjska and northern Primorska are in very poor condition. It is mainly a link across the Sevska valley and also across the Poljanska valley. I can tell these roads are sometimes untraceable. At last month's visit last May, the President of the Government promised that the Zali log-taxa road would be built in one year. Yesterday, however, Mr Minister replied that the road, which is seven kilometres long, would not be built until 2015. The road along the Poljanska Valley, especially the Trebia-Sovodenje road, is in very poor condition. The placement of the new fourth development axis terrace has also been unrealistic since last year, June, in our view, because the price per kilometer exceeds 11 million. This is the price of a running kilometer highway built in Slovenia. I have pointed out to the Minister that in the future it is necessary to propose projects that are realistically feasible to the public, not that tunnels and viaducts are placed in the natural environment, which spoil the natural appearance and, of course, seriously interfere with nature. We therefore believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that it is necessary to hold a debate on the link between Gorenjska and Northern Primorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. Since I am also coming from this area alone and I am aware of the problems, except in this area we are working well with all four mayors, I may want to complement what my colleague Milan Čadež has said. In fact, we all remember the floods in the Iron region that they cut off from the world. They still don't have the right connection. In this area, there are few villages that do not have the right connections, the most violent village is the village of Taxation with 50 school-bound children. In the summers they still have some good connections across a very steep road, and in winter this connection is virtually impossible. And with regard to the flood rehabilitation, the road in the Tax is still necessary. People are, of course, full of promises. It can also be said that there is a demographic threat or that we can make a demographic threat because these places are otherwise well populated. But if there are no transport links, if there is no perspective, it will indeed become a demographically threatened area. The second problem raised by colleague Čadež, however, is certainly the passage across our valleys, specifically the Polish valleys to Primorsko. Business operators are interested. However, we cannot afford to drive to Bovec, Kobarida in the winter after eight hours or more, this transport link is still necessary. This is part of the fourth development axis. But if they come with unrealistic projects that in the local environment only arouse revolutions, I see nothing but buying time and delaying a solution. Therefore, in a broad discussion, let it lay some groundwork on which this burning issue will be resolved because people are already full of promise. It's been a long time since the flood. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will not support this debate! On 9 February, on my initiative, we had an interview with Minister Vlačič in Cerkne, where a fellow Member and Mayor Čadež were also present. It was also agreed that we would meet again with the Minister of Transport in a relatively short time, together with representatives of the municipality of Cerkno and the municipality of Gorenja Vas - Poljane. Minister Dr. Wlačič also said yesterday that they would also study the price of this route. Optimisation can significantly reduce costs per kilometer from 11 million to much less. However, if we want to have some ambitious link between Gorenjska and Primorska, it also costs something. I am confident that we will be able to agree on the placement of this route between Cerknim and Hotavljam, on the 4th development axis, into the space so that we do not miss the drawdown of European funds. With regard to the second road link between Railways, Tax and Novaki, the Minister of Transport said yesterday that there was an opportunity to draw on European funds. If we can draw European funds for this road, we will be able to complete this road before 2015 and not as a colleague said today. The Minister said yesterday that if we get European funds, this road will be completed sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There were 70 votes in favour and 70 votes in favour. 23 for, 45 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. We are moving to a vote on the proposal by Mr Marijan Pojbič to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik to the question of Mr Marijan Pojbič's question on the effective and fair resolution of applications at the Inspectorate for the work of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Pojbič on behalf of the Group of Members? Anyone else? Mr Pojbič has the floor, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u278	Mr. Vice President. I have again proposed a broader discussion on this issue, as it has once again proved to be a poor supervision of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs over the operation of inspection services. It was very clear here that the Ministry's functioning and the operation of inspection services were exposed to this issue. It turned out, and from these documents I have, it turns out that it's both hidden. It's been seven months since the inspection services had to react. Even a few months after the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons was informed about this and practically to ask this question yesterday, those who are burdened by this problem have not received an appropriate response, not from inspection services or from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. So we're back to one key problem that I've talked about before. The operation of inspection services and ministries, the supervision of the Ministry of Inspection Services, which are part of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, is poor. It is bad and it is clear from what we receive and receive that these documents we receive that the Ministry and the inspection services are doing very badly. Most likely, however, individual civil servants are doing their job when it comes to the fact that, in addition to the work they have paid from the state budget, they can earn a lot more privacy for their pockets. This, however, seems to me, to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to be completely distasteful, unfair and unfair. We know exactly what the primary task of inspection services and their key managers is. They are obliged to act in the public interest and this is their primary task. Their primary task is certainly not to come to work, to think about how they will prepare for the next class. That's absurd. I think this is why we need to have a broader discussion of this problem in the National Assembly, so that we can find the right solutions so that this will no longer happen in the future when we hear that these services are undernourished every time. How can they be malnourished if they go around teaching private services during working hours? This is the absurdity of all absurdities, it can only happen in our country. The National Assembly is the one who should react. You should have responded to that. Once again, I call on all Members and Members to support this issue and we may find a better solution to this issue and to these problems at our next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u279	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. I apologize to Mr Milan Čadež for skipping and first giving my word to Mr Pojbic. I now put to the vote the proposal of Ambassador Milan Čadež that the assembly decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to Milan Čadež's question on the evaluation of the land following which the categorised local roads, public roads and other public areas are taking place. Mr. Chadev, would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members? He does. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Chadian has your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since its establishment in 1995, the majority of municipalities have also obtained from their predecessors an irregular state in the area of ownership of previously built local roads and also public roads and other public areas. A quite nice number of citizens are also land book owners, who are in the nature of the road or other public areas, and will also be liable to pay the tax. Citizens now require from the municipalities a geodetic dose of local roads to regulate property ownership and public roads and, of course, compensation payments. Yesterday, the Minister also found that this was the legacy of the previous system when everything was ours. Also, in Slovenia there are 23 000 uncategorised public roads and roads owned by citizens. Therefore, I think that this issue, which concerns all the municipalities in Slovenia, should be taken up in Parliament and discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] I propose a decision to vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 35. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić, to the question of Mr Grill's question on non-compliance with the judgments of the courts following the implementation of the concessions granted for the provision of chimney services. On behalf of the delegation? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u282	Thank you very much. For the past six months, I have essentially asked the Minister of the Environment a third question on many irregularities in the provision of chimney services. Unfortunately, new irregularities and new findings are opening up on each issue. The last question is essentially worrying, because we cannot possibly understand that the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take into account the ruling of the Administrative Court. This is a 2009 ruling when the Administrative Court annulled two concessions granted for the provision of chimney services. These two concessions were obtained on the basis of false data. This was then found by the Administrative Court and these concessions were abolished. This is a very similar example, as it obtained from the false data of the physical therapists' chamber run by Mrs Kresal, just as the concession did, and the Ministry or the State did not cancel. And here, the story is exactly the same. And that the absurdity and the anomaly are so much greater, also shows that in September 2010, the Administrative Court gave the State 90 days to issue a new decision on the provision of chimney services in the area of the municipality of Škofljica and the municipality of Trebnje. Nevertheless, the State and the Ministry of the Environment did not comply with this judgment. Now the affected parties have already brought an action for compensation, and just before the workers there is enforcement, on the basis of which the state will now have to pay for each action for a year 100 000 euros in compensation. To that end, it is also the call of the District Court calling on the public defence to determine why what the Administrative Court has imposed is not taken into account. This is unacceptable and also indicates an anomaly in the area of chimney services. As a result, there are many chimney fires or chimney fires. The consequences of such anomalies are evident in the whole of Slovenia. And since the Minister has failed and has not been able to answer why the State has not responded to the ruling of the Administrative Court, it would be in his best interests and, of course, it is also right for us to hold a debate on this subject in the National Assembly and find out where the reasons are and, above all, how to try to resolve this unresolved area. I therefore expect this proposal to be supported by this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] No decision is taken. We're moving on to the final proposal. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonka Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majde Shirca to the question of Ms Zvonka Lah on previous archaeological research. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 25th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Another notification, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, informing you that the second extension of the 36th meeting of the Committee will take place in 15 minutes, that is, at 20.05 in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you very much.
