ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Renata Brunskole by 3 p.m., mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 3 p.m. on, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Matjaž Han, Mr Matvež Frangež and Dr Pavel Gantar until 5 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Banking Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. On behalf of the Government, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, will present the introductory supplementary explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposed law before you aims to partially transpose the provisions of the Omnibus Directive relating to the powers of the European supervisory authorities, while being transposed by law into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the so-called CRD3 Directive relating to capital requirements for the trade book and for re-certification. Both Directives address certain shortcomings in the current European banking rules identified in the recent financial crisis. In addition, the law introduces an amendment that is not related to the transposition of European directives, which lays down the legal basis for the transmission of personal data by the natural persons of the holders of the bank's transaction accounts to the takeover of one bank by the other. The main solutions to the draft law relating to the implementation of the CRD3 Directive can be summarized into the following four points. First, capital requirements for settlement risks are also introduced for bank book items. Until now, only items of the trade book have been covered in this respect. Secondly, the supervisor will be able to require the bank to create additional capital over the minimum capital level also taking into account the elements of the assessment process of the relevant internal capital, the management system and the findings of the supervisory verification and evaluation process. Thirdly, banks will need to develop policies to assess whether their disclosure to market participants provides comprehensive information on the bank’s risk profile or, if not provided, additional disclosure of other essential information. The existing set of measures to implement risk management rules is complemented. This will ensure that the supervisor can request specific measures from the bank, such as the limitation of payment of the variable part of the company's management income, if the fulfilment of the obligations or objectives relating to the bank's capital adequacy is jeopardised. The main solutions to the draft law relating to the implementation of the Omnibus Directive concern the strengthening of cooperation between the Slovenian Supervisor, namely the Bank of Slovenia, and other supervisors in the European Union and the European Banking Authority, which is the successor of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. It is possible to provide confidential information to the European Banking Authority and the European Systemic Risk Board to the extent necessary to carry out their tasks and responsibilities. The possibility of the European Banking Authority participating in colleges of supervisory authorities is further regulated. The participation of Banka Slovenije in colleges set up by the consolidating supervisory authorities of other Member States is regulated. It is further regulated to submit a request to the European Banking Authority for assistance in reaching agreement between the Bank of Slovenia and other supervisory authorities with regard to the definition of an important branch or in joint decision-making concerning the calculation of capital requirements for advanced approaches. In both cases, the European Banking Authority may act in accordance with its powers and to assist the supervisory authorities involved in reaching an appropriate agreement. The Bank of Slovenia will have to follow the guidelines and recommendations of the European Banking Authority, as it has so far followed the guidelines, standards and recommendations of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. The Bank of Slovenia will also have to take into account, in addition to the principle of proportionality, the provisions of implementing technical standards to be issued by the European Banking Authority. In view of the above, I note that the draft law transposes into the national legal order the provisions of the European directives which respond adequately to the shortcomings identified in European financial legislation, and therefore the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be confirmed both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Rad Likar, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 49th emergency meeting, on 12. Ten. In 2011, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was considered as a working body by means of a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure, as confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legal and technical aspects, with a number of specific comments to Articles 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, on Articles 29, 32, 35, 37, 39 and 40 of the proposal. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia, has drawn up proposals for amendments to the Committee, which were made by members of the Committee in the context of additional working material, on Articles 2, 4, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19 to 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32, 35, 37 and 40, and adopted them after discussion. Both the written explanation of the bill's proposal and the brief introductory supplementary explanation of the articles and the solutions presented at the meeting of the Committee by the State Secretary of the Finance Ministry, it follows that changes in the legal arrangements in the exposed area, the regulatory capital framework, the management of the risks of financial institutions and, last but not least, the supervision are necessary in the current financial crisis. On the other hand, the proposal partially implements Directives 2010/76/EC and 2010/78/EC, whose transposition deadline is 31 12. 2011. In addition to this, the fact that recent credit rating agencies have lowered both the credit rating of Slovenia and the credit assessment of banks is also taken into account, and among the underlying reasons for the reduction of the rating, the bad state of the banking system is also mentioned. Following the presentation of the written opinion of that service, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the amendments to the Committee followed these warnings. In doing so, the Committee, at the initiative of the Legislative and Legal Service, took further account of the editorial correction of the text of the amendments to Articles 20 and 24 of the draft law. The members of the committee did not discuss the individual articles of the bill. Finally, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted and is an integral part of this report, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Breda Pečan will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Hello! Mr President, thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act in the Group of Social Democrats, in particular because it eliminates shortcomings in the regulatory capital framework and in the management of the risks of financial institutions and controls. The fact is that these shortcomings are smaller and many larger, including one of the reasons behind the financial crisis in the period 2007-2008. It is important to stress that the adoption of this law is necessary because the proposal also partially implements Directives 2010/76/EC and 2010/78/EC, for which the transposition deadline is 31. 12. 2011. In the event of a delay in transposition, the European Commission will initiate a procedure against the Republic of Slovenia for an infringement which may also lead to sanctions and lead to difficult remedial effects in the fiscal area of the country. Thus, the adoption of the law is necessary in order to prevent permanent and irreparable consequences for the functioning of the State, both in fiscal terms, in the form of payment of a fine, as well as in the area of financial stability due to the current shortcomings in the regulatory capital framework and in the supervisory model itself. The news contained in the bill is thus essential for the establishment of a more stable banking sector and, as a result, is essential for the recovery of the economy. Stronger requirements for banks and the participation of national supervisors with European supervisory authorities will ensure greater stability of the financial system and, consequently, the economy, while greater confidence in the market will be present. At the same time, banks will need to be more careful to invest in very complex and risky financial products, to better manage risks and to be more resilient to financial losses. We must also take into account the fact that rating agencies have recently lowered both the credit rating of Slovenia and the credit rating of Slovenian banks, and the underlying reasons for the reduction of the rating have also indicated the poor state of the banking system. In view of the fact that the proposed novelty eliminates shortcomings in the regulatory capital framework and in the management of the risks of financial institutions, this constitutes an urgent response to the situation in the banking system and, on the other hand, a measure aimed at ensuring that the ratings of both Slovenia and the bank are no longer reduced in the future. As I said earlier, the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 also revealed significant weaknesses in financial supervision in particular cases, as well as in relation to the financial system as a whole. Supervisory models at national level are lagging behind the financial globalisation and interconnection of European financial markets where more and more financial institutions operate across borders. During the crisis, there were shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of Union law and trust between competent national authorities. In response to identified shortcomings, the European Union responded in this regard by means of a proposal for a directive which is transposed into Slovenian law by this law and by the regulations of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, as has already been said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the solutions of the Banking Act. It is the transposition of directives in terms of strengthening the stability of the banking system, the participation of national and European supervisory institutions and, of course, strengthening supervision of this important part of the financial system. These are the solutions that are European and are in some way necessary for Slovenia's banking space as part of this European financial system, but we believe that the solution is very small and, last but not least, do not solve the essential problems of the Slovenian banking system. In Slovenia we still face a credit crunch. Slovenian banks do not service the Slovenian economy, do not service promising projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, and also the financing or credit activity of the population is reduced. How do you imagine that in Slovenia we will sail out of the volume of the financial and economic crisis, how will we upgrade economic activity, but if there is no important precondition for this, it is the functioning of those financial institutions that enable financing, the initial financing of these and similar projects? So, we still have a credit crunch in Slovenia. Slovenian banks deal more or less with themselves and with their hard-to-recovery claims on certain corrupt systems associated with managers' buy-ins or with the collapse of entire branches, such as construction. The balance sheet of Slovenian banks is plagued by the severe problems associated with these claims, they fall under obligations in international financial markets and are difficult to obtain fresh capital in these markets, so they often come before the Ministry of Finance, the Government and this National Assembly for new and new recapitalisations. Dear fellows, it will be difficult to throw money, tax money into the abyss, where we cannot see the bottom through the fog, where there is a black hole that devours the taxpayer's money and does not repair the financial system. These problems of the Slovenian banking system of this Directive, as well as these solutions, do not solve the amendments to the Banking Act. The government is not capable of transposing or adopting the provisions of the directives into the Slovenian legal order, it is not able to face the problems that are real today and were here yesterday and are a problem for those who are charging the state budget, i.e. for taxpayers. Therefore, I think it would be a great time for you to come with your people or to sum up our solutions, which we have already proposed to solve these accumulated problems. Otherwise, this novel is more or less of a technical nature ahead of us, and we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law that, if I say in substance and in a less formal way, has been presented to this assembly by the global economic crisis and the European Union. In particular, the economic and financial situation is rapidly worse than we are willing to admit. Therefore, it is good that there are thinkers, and there are more and more who seriously record that the situation has become unpredictable and that man simply has no more conceptual tools to grasp the chaotic web of facts at all. So is both this year's Nobel laureate for the economy. There are no simple answers and there will be a lot of slow work and taking into account data and facts. At the same time, if we follow the newspapers, we are faced with banks that have recently undergone stress tests. The Zares Group will also support the amendment as well as the amendments to the Committee. We can accept the clarification that this is an urgent response to the situation in the banking system and that changes or additions address shortcomings in the regulatory part of the capital framework and in the management of the risks of financial institutions. And the emergency skeptics. Is it European action with delay? Probably. Is action less risky than the risks it poses? Maybe. Money dealers don't care if I reflect on what I said at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the seventh amendment to the Banking Act in this mandate, the seventh amendment. More than clearly an acute problem area requiring changes and additions to the rules on average every six months. The reason, of course, is the financial and economic crisis, and this time changes and additions require a European community. At this point, we might be thinking a little bit and wondering if all of this is having any effect at all. The more we change the legislation of this area, the worse the state of the Slovenian banking system, especially the part that is owned by the majority state. Then what's the problem? Let me remind you of the not-so-distant case of the Bank of Hypo when Austrian owners passed through all our regulatory institutions and law enforcement authorities came to make order in their bank. They carried out a small military coup, as they call it. They hit the table, pushed out those who didn't have anything to look for in the bank. They're here to make order. Not to mention the domestic saga about the New Ljubljana Bank. Recapitalisation of recapitalisation, bottomless sack, playground of Slovenian tycoonisation and transitions and so on and so on. But there's no one to hit the table. No one who would hit a table by falling into two parts, in this case. Did our law enforcement authorities detect any problems or irregularities at all? Has the main regulator of the banking system, the banking market, Banka Slovenije, detected any irregularities? Do we detect them now? Has anyone done anything? Nothing. Everything's fine. We're just recapitalising for recapitalisation, 200, 400, 500 million euros, as if these millions were just like that. One million euros - I have said this many times in this Chamber, and I will say it many times - my dears, it is 240 million tolars. Remember what kind of money that was? That was terrible money. And we move them here and there, as if they were the ones from the old Yugoslavia for five pairs. We change laws and quasi eliminate the causes of irregularities and problems. It is more than obvious that we do not have a system system that is at least able to detect irregularities, let alone prevent them. For the seventh time, we have been amending the sectoral law and eliminating the irregularities that have caused the situation we are in. But it's too late to ring the bell, you might say. I wonder why we have not yet seen any problems or irregularities. Why is Banka Slovenije acting like an unborn child? What does Banka Slovenije do with 500 employees to prevent irregularities from being detected, eliminated and prevented? Hypo and NLB happened and happened right in front of their eyes, and nothing! By the way, how many of us are employed here in the National Assembly? Substantially less than 500! And?Oh, my God! This question should also be asked. Why isn't he acting? Is there a problem, at least as far as NLB is concerned, maybe in the recruitment of this bank? I wonder how Banka Slovenije should actually act if NLB's husband is the first person in charge of bank supervision at the time of the Bank of Slovenia. Please! How?Oh, my God! It's not possible. It's not possible. I further wonder which of the bank's administration or supervisory board has so far been called to account for its actions, for the loans granted, which have been more than apparently handed out in good faith. Nobody! No one was called to account. Your Honor, with this fog mixing, it is my opinion that it is necessary to stop. Enough of this institutional abuse of the banking system and hiding in the mangers of state ownership. It will be necessary to take over personally for your actions and omissions [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Banking Act, which aligns the law with European directives. With this proposal, Banka Slovenije will be given the opportunity to require banks, if necessary, to have more capital adequacy than legally prescribed, and may also intervene in the salaries of the administration and to provide adequate market information on the risk of the individual bank. In the DeSUS Group, we consider these solutions to be good, so we will support the bill, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, Proposal for Review in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, urgent procedure. We propose that the National Assembly should consider the draft law on an urgent basis, as in the current financial crisis in the Republic of Slovenia there are urgent changes to the legal regime that address shortcomings in the regulatory capital framework and in the management of the risks of financial institutions. The bill also responds to weaknesses in the field of control. Supervisory models at national level are lagging behind the financial globalisation and interconnection of European financial markets where several financial institutions operate across borders. During the crisis, there were shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of Union law and trust between competent national offices. That's what it says at the beginning of the explanation. This government, leaving from day to day, is better, has fallen to the real ground and has found that changes in the financial crisis are necessary and that the carrier skis in Switzerland as a courier business is not in the description of the works and tasks of the Finance Minister. That trust is nowhere, not only among national authorities, we see and know for a long time, at least in the Slovenian National Party. The period for the implementation of those Directives shall be 31 years. 12. 2011. In the event of a delay in transposition, the European Commission will initiate a procedure against the Republic of Slovenia for an infringement which may lead to sanctions and lead to difficult remedial effects in the fiscal area of the country. Thus, the adoption of the law is essential in order to prevent permanent and irreparable consequences for the functioning of a country which would be reflected in the fiscal field, but also in the area of financial stability, due to the current shortcomings in the regulatory capital framework and the supervisory model itself. The news contained in the bill is thus essential for the establishment of a more stable banking sector and, as a result, is essential for the recovery of the economy. What the Government says is true; if we do not accept, there will be sanctions. And the problem is elsewhere. What have you been doing so far? Directives were adopted last year. Why didn't you implement them in January this year? We want to be the first everywhere, even where we don't have to, for example, when we go to worship the Croats and others. Why not? Because that's what you wanted, because you cheated on us and wanted to get us thirsty across the water, at TER 6, for example, and elsewhere. You're hunting late. In fact, it would be right if we did not support this law, that such a singing Europe punishes us once. You who are responsible for the fiasco, however, should confiscate the entire property, as well as your silent advisors, who you said did not, and then in the dispatches on WikiLeaks we read how these quasi conscious Slovenians wanted to help you – yes, to fill and fill their pockets. That's a shame! In spring, we asked the Slovenian National Party to lower salaries for members of the NLB administration. The answer was that this was not possible, and a thousand other excuses. In this material, look at the fraction, I quote: "The existing set of measures to implement the rules on risk management is complemented. This shall ensure that the supervisor may require the bank to implement specific measures such as the limitation of payment of the variable portion of the remuneration if it is jeopardised to meet the obligations or objectives relating to the bank's capital adequacy." We're helping you with a new proposal. The President of the NLB administration should have a gross fixed salary of EUR 3 000 500 from now on. It should vary to a full salary of less than EUR 10,000 gross. It's paid to him and to the board member once the bank is out of red numbers. At that time, each of them should also be paid a one-time prize of 150 000 euros gross for achievements. So be it! Why 3,000 euros gross? Because, respected and respected, employees in the public administration and in the public sector, who also have greater responsibilities and responsibilities, doctors, teachers and so on, do not pay EUR 3 000 500 gross in full. Maybe some of them due to years of work and so on. The other measures and objectives you are pursuing are meaningful and good. They may be too late, but the culprit is not the National Assembly, not the opposition. It's your fault the ministers aren't here right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Mr Györek, time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Because they couldn't respond in time. I'll cut it short: we'll support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, he will present the position of mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Good day to all of you, hello to the secretary! We will support the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It is late, but it goes to the good of Slovenia. But I must say that I am very happy, this pre-election time is indeed a time of revelation, of enlightenment, of time in which all things are known, of all things. The crisis has certainly contributed to this. It's a famous human river: when money goes, intelligence comes. On the other hand, I must say that we have also dealt with a dilemma in the Group of Members, or leave a decision on this issue to the Members of the next call and to the next government, because, as we are told, the time is coming for miraculous solutions, vehement measures, and with the break of the mandate, everything will be better and better. I'm really looking forward to these times. That's a little cynical, of course, but we're on trial right now. A decision which is in accordance with the European Directive must be taken by the end of the year in order not to penalise Slovenia. It is also right to discuss the responsibility of those who wear it and who have it because they have obviously delayed it by adopting it and could have accepted it earlier. It is simple to follow the European Directive through the amendment of the Banking Act. This European Directive responds to the problems of European banks, particularly those related to capital adequacy. These problems are due to the fact that banks did not have sufficient capital for the products associated with additional ownership, as well as to the general adequacy of the banks when there are periods of major losses related mainly to their poor investments. The European Union has responded to these problems by adopting two directives introducing capital requirements for settlement risk, further measures empowering central banks to require the creation of additional capital, including over the size of the minimum capital, and by requiring banks to develop policies to assess whether their disclosures provide comprehensive information on the risk profile of the bank. Among other things, measures to implement risk management rules are being complemented, and banks may also be required to limit remuneration payments if compliance with capital adequacy obligations and targets is jeopardised. We strongly support these provisions in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In fact, each responsible person must also be financially responsible for his or her conduct and the fulfilment of the objectives of the company or bank. There was also a lot of talk about the New Ljubljana Bank. Even before there was a great coalition in this mandate, we had a clear position at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club on the recapitalisation of our largest bank, never and never changed it. We are against recapitalisation from public funds, demand that it be recapitalised by private investors, owners or partner banks. So much for that. The provisions of the second Directive also transpose the system of information to the European Banking Authority into the Slovenian legal order because closer cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia is being established, as well as information from the European Banking Authority on the prohibition of the provision of banking services and the provision of confidential information. The law further lays down the legal basis for the transmission of personal data of natural persons on the holders of the bank's transaction accounts to the acquirer for the purposes of carrying out transfers of cash into the transaction accounts to the beneficiaries of the guaranteed deposits into their transaction accounts with other banks. The Bank will also be given further access to all data on the holders of the transaction accounts, which are primarily relevant for the verification of the identity of the individual holder or the beneficiary of the so-called guaranteed application. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that legal changes are appropriate, they respond to the requirements of the European Directive, so we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I interrupt the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which we will resume in two hours, at 2.45 p.m. During this time, the Health Committee will meet and prepare everything necessary to address the 7th item at the meeting. Members and members of the committee shall be informed that the meeting of the committee will begin in 10 minutes at the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. The meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly will be held in room 217 in 15 minutes. We'll start the college meeting at 1:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue our 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a bill amending the Health Service Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 10 Members and Members, first signed by Bredo Pečan. The bill is proposed at the 24th emergency session of the 12th. Ten. 2011 treated the Health Committee as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ms Silva Črnugelj has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Medical Services, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members, with the first signed by Bredo Pecan, constitutes an amendment to Article 18 setting out how to obtain a specialist title and a licence based on work and practice. In Slovenia, specialist doctors may request a specialist’s address or license, who have passed a specialist examination and have done everything with the programme of this specialization of the prescribed procedure. But this is not the only condition they have to meet. They must have six more years of work in the area for which up to 1. 1. 2000 was no specialisation, but only for a period of three years after the adoption of this legislation. In this way, regulated and defined conditions are extremely discriminatory for some, in particular for young doctors and specialist doctors who carried out a specialist examination just prior to the adoption of a self-sustainment programme or within three years of having performed a part or two-thirds of their specialisation in this field. Some think that young doctors and doctors also have the option of specialising in a narrowly focused area, which their older colleagues, especially those who are now over 55 years of age, say their mentors and lecturers have not had – this also in some way constitutes discrimination for another group in this area. It is true that our parliamentary group has been following the promises of a health-care law for almost 15 years. It is also true that, according to the UN, study knowledge is even older than it was in 10 years, and this is particularly true for medical knowledge, which is changing so rapidly and rapidly and informationally. It is good to know that legislation in this area within EU countries is not uniform and this is the area that is regulated in different ways in different countries. Let me mention only the case of Germany, which has very different ways within its countries, in order not to talk about our neighbours in Italy, which have not only regions but also within university clinical centres things differently determined. In our parliamentary group, we will decide to approve this law or the Members will vote in their own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian Democratic Party is somewhat surprised by this bill. In fact, on the committee we have heard from both the Ministry and the profession, the Medical Chamber, as well as the Association of Health Institutions, as well as the State Council, that this proposed amendment would lead to major, far-reaching changes and threats, as foreseen in the explanation of the bill. It is certainly necessary to say that the proposal changes the condition for obtaining a new specialisation, which is introduced later than individuals have specialized at the time when there has been no new specialisation. That's very rare. This has now been a little more common in our country over the last decade, because we have just adapted the system of specialisation to the European Union. The proposal before us proposes that the requirement be deleted for at least six years. In fact, for at least six years he had to work on a particular area of expertise to be recognised as a new specialty, without a test. So to delete at least six years. The Medical Chamber further explained its opposition to such intervention in medical legislation, which is specifically professional, and in the last paragraph, I will read it, the Medical Chamber will say so. I quote: "Looking at the conversation of the head of the Department of Postgraduate Training, Licenses and Register of Doctors of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia with First-signed Member Bredo Pečan, which was held on 10 August 2011 in the presence of the representative of the Ministry of Health, we cannot get rid of the feeling that this is a specific case of abuse of the law reform system to solve the family case. The proposaler's son-in-law, who completed a specialization in internal medicine in January 2011, will not meet the required requirement of six years of work in the specialist field after a specialist examination for recognised cardiology specialisations, although it is alleged that the MPs have already performed all the cardiology interventions, which is said to be very unusual." So, too, this paragraph convinces us that there are some partisan interests in amending the law, which is unacceptable in the legislative process. It is unacceptable that by amending the law we are solving individual problems or that we want to establish some special protection and treatment for our own needs, whether it is financial or such things as specialization in the medical profession. In fact, a six-year period was required for those old professors who were practically also heads of departments of individual sub-specialisation, such as gastroenterology, haematology, rheumatology, and specialized in the old system in terms of general internal. And to such, only such legislation, which was adopted in 2008, allowed them to be automatically recognised as a subsidiary or new specialisation, for example, if it worked in the field of gastroenterology, gastroenterology, and so on. Of course, for new people who specialize, we can't afford to do that. This would be in clear, clear contradiction with the European Union, which requires the granting of a licence for specialisation only on the basis of the examinations carried out. So once again, this is another proof of how this mandate dealt with legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. You're quitting, all right. It's mag. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Medical Service Act proposed by a group of Members to eliminate alleged discrimination in obtaining a specialist address or licence for autonomous, more specialised programmes. We did not support the proposal in the parliamentary club, because in our view it is not a minor change, but a substantive intervention into an already sensitive health system. The healthcare system certainly needs upgrades, not individual unilateral interventions. The next thing that bothers us is that the proposal has no professional support. A negative opinion was given by both the Slovenian Medical Chamber and the Professional Council of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana. In their view, this is a substantive intervention in an area that is relatively well regulated and in line with European legislation and current and future needs of Slovenian health care, according to all professional medical bodies. Nor did the proposal favour the opinion of the Council of State. The procedures and conditions for obtaining specialist titles are well regulated for both older and younger physicians, according to the medical profession. In 2008, the 18th section of the Act was adopted, which eliminated the void that occurred in the specialist areas. This change has been deliberate and, above all, coordinated. We did not support the proposal at the LDS. We believe that there is no need for this change, but even less the right time. There is also a lack of a more detailed and well-founded argument for the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, there's been a few deletions. Mrs. Majda Shirca Ravnikar's turn. She's gone out now. Is anyone going to do it for her? Here you go, Mr. Yuri. Just tell me first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u29	I apologize, Mr President, and thank you for the floor. We have co-signed the proposal for a law amending the Law on Medical Services and also supported it on the Home Committee because we believe that an attempt to eliminate discriminatory practices has been justified. We would add that we cannot accept the arguments of those who are trying to simplify and interpret everything with alleged family ties. That was a de-laxation. I don't think it's an argument. Here was a marriage with a serious purpose and a positive purpose. However, such or other criticisms are better left at home and deal with professional issues. Unfortunately, we note that the law has not received support and therefore this debate is in essence more procedural in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Final Report of the Commission of Inquiry for the determination and assessment of the actual state of issue and financing of the free weeks of the Slovenian Week and Express. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Check-in is on. Mag. Melita Zupevec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will, of course, support the proposals for conclusions in the Group of Social Democrats. We believe that these conclusions take stock of the main findings of this commission of inquiry, namely that the Slovenian Week and Express, two free-of-chargers who began, formed and emerged before the last parliamentary elections, were part of a pre-election campaign by a political party, that they were established and betrayed in order to influence the election of MPs to the National Assembly in 2008 and through disqualification of political competitors to benefit the then largest ruling political parties. We also agree with the findings that the Commission's report should be submitted to the competent authorities, that the Commission of Inquiry has done its work correctly and that it is for others to continue this work. We will therefore support all proposals for conclusions in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. The Group of Members will clearly support the conclusions on the work of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the status of the issue and financing of free agents. We will support these conclusions, for the first time, because it is a well-done work of the Commission of Inquiry. The conclusions are not based on political assessments, but solely on evidence, data, numbers and names that can be read in the report itself. What seems crucial to us is that we add something new to Slovenian political culture through these conclusions and this conclusion. Here it is, and this is what we are saying today when we come into pre-election time, especially for a lesson on a bad political culture that reigned at that time and that has no hindrance, no obstacles to the low mutilation of political opponents. That this is done at the expense of taxpayer money is only an addition to the fact that this is primarily an invitation to all of us to change political culture at least in a democratic sense, because unfortunately it is not. This democratic culture is not yet there. If we hold what we have learned these days that we may end up in certain political transitions both left and right, we may be going to a period when such free-for-alls will no longer be necessary, because the different opinions will be dealt with openly, without manipulation, without disqualification from the opponents, but on the basis of mutual respect. In the Group of Members, we really hope that the Slovenian Democratic Party understood this lesson in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u36	We will vote in favour, I said in the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Yesterday an information officer's message was sent, and I received it today, and a letter in the annex of the information officer is an illustration of the communication between the National Assembly and the Information Commissioner. This was requested to act in cases where parts of the report are marked or fall under the laws and levels of confidentiality. In the last paragraph, it reads: "Although you will find that the report contains exceptions to freely available information, it is appropriate to draw attention to the partial access institute governed by Article 7 of the Law on Access to Public Information. This provides that if the document or part thereof contains only partially the information referred to in Article 6, that is to say personal data and may be excluded from the document without jeopardising their confidentiality, the authorised person of the authority shall exclude that information from the document and inform the applicant of the content of the rest of the document." In other words, even if part of the report contains protected data, the report may be made available to the public in the form of partial access by covering the protected data before it is made available to the public. That is exactly what we proposed in the process of addressing this requirement at the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly, several times earlier, and unfortunately those who requested an information officer, this was the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at the initiative of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, which they did not. Unfortunately, in our Group of Members, we can find that the conclusions are not related to the content of the investigation and to the findings of the investigation. In short, what you opened up to the public is manipulation, what you did at the open meetings of the National Assembly in the hearing proceedings, and it also does not reflect what you collected with some confidential documentary material from those services in which you requested this information. In short, all we can find is that the former coalition had this investigative commission just to try to frame it on the basis of some facts, some manipulations of what you intended to impose on the Slovenian Democratic Party. That is why the Commission of Inquiry, or the President of the Commission of Inquiry, did not want to open this material, which is more or less summarized after all that is publicly available. And unfortunately, all we can find is that it's a first-class manipulation that you've already enjoyed in this term. That's why we won't support these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u38	You didn't say, Mr. Tanko, how [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Did you say that? I didn't hear. I was very careful. Thank you very much. Can we vote? Before we vote, I would like to tell you the following. We vote on the proposal for conclusions. The conclusions are four. We therefore vote on the proposal for all four decisions together. Please, Mr. Yuri, procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u39	You know, some people are also interested in explanations of vote. We have explained the vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u40	I expect all of us, after three years, to know how these procedures are going. I asked if we could vote. If anyone raised their hand, I'd know he wanted to explain his voice in his own name. Since this was not the case, we are going to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 24. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic Rules. I'd ask if you'd pay attention. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I hope I've heard about the law we're going to vote on, given the shunder that's in the National Assembly. So we have proposed a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. Why this procedure? Look, things are relatively simple. The coalition majority has adopted this law and this law is scandalous, I will say, scandalous materially harmful to all our people, especially those with lower wages. What did we suggest? We listed precisely those offences that are minor offences, and we gave another condition – that it is not a threat to road safety by third parties, which means that it was not blackmail, carambola or anything like that. Another condition — that it first happened to someone in one year. In such a case, they would have ordered the police not to punish the citizen, but to warn him. Look, the secretary said they can do this now. Yes, you can, but it's left to their discretional rights. Let me tell you one case. A few years ago, I got a call from a man, an old man, I think, about 65 years old. He said he has 370 euros in pension, two children and one student in Ljubljana. Because one single day, I stress, one single day he forgot to extend his driver's license – he did not endanger anyone and thus did not affect the safety of anyone – he was given over 600 euros in fines. Now tell me how a citizen with 370 euros in pension, two school-bound children and one in college can pay 600 and a few euros in fines. How? Because he forgot to extend his driver's license one day. I know that many Members may not feel like 600 euros is enough. Yes, this is probably true for us, and this is still true for a lot of us, but it does not apply to about 800,000 of our citizens. I would like to stress that this is a compulsive issue between minor non-threatening offences and that this is the first time that this has happened — that the police in this case should give warnings. I think there is another article in the law that we have proposed, which is also absurd. See, if today a tourist train wants to drive from Rogaška Slatina to Podčettek, it can no longer do so, because there is a restriction in the law that says it can only drive on roads where the speed is less than 50 km per hour. In a given case, however, I should drive one kilometer along a regional road where the speed is higher. Look, we're also hurting tourism. Let's get this marriage back up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we expressed our full support in our position yesterday for the proposal of this law or for the amendment and for the addition of this law, this is for a simple reason. If I speak figuratively, it's an uncivilized, incassant, ruby law. This is a law that has not arisen in the heads of some Members, in this case in the heads of the Slovenian National Party or of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but is a problem that plagues thousands of Slovenians, as a rule those socially weak Slovenians and Slovenians. This can be convinced of any one of us who moves among those people who are victims of such a strict, incasant law, I can say, which causes such consequences that it is not only possible to overlook. It is the emergence of such social situations in certain families when it comes to the unemployed, those with social benefits, pensioners with low pensions who suffer so much material damage because of one banal offence that their children and grandchildren cannot buy even clothes or books for school when they cannot pay electricity. I don't know, colleagues and colleagues, where you live. Do we live only here, in this hall, in this hall, or are we living among the people? No problem, I can pay a fine of 200, 300 euros, I'm not going to lose my social situation at home, luckily. But we are not all in such a situation that we can afford such a punishment. I don't know if you can imagine what it means to someone with a family budget of 300, 400 euros, a thousand euros! He can't even get a loan to pay the fine by hand unless the court allows him to do so. In addition to the deadline for repayment or half payment, I fully agree with the proposaler. At least extend that period to him! Come on, extend it to 30 days so that two social support can pool to pay half the penalty. Not that he has to pay even a fine that is virtually impossible. This is a proposal for a law with full social content, human content. This is not about giving silence to alcoholic drivers or returnees, savages who endanger the safety of all other road users. These are banal offences, as indicated in the proposal. And so much understanding, we must have so much human sense. So please, I appeal to you, be as sensitive to those who do not have the wages we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Can we vote? No, no, no. In your own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this law, which is a law that in some small segment corrects the stupidity and inhumanity of the law adopted by the current authorities. In fact, in Slovenia you introduced disproportionate penalties in relation to the personal income of citizens. Few citizens receive personal incomes, including those with these inhuman penalties. This law that we correct is like a leech on a human body drinking the fresh blood of an ordinary citizen. And that's actually the incassant law. We're here to correct it in some of the smaller segments of the offenses. However, the fact is that all of this legislation, which has been so incassantly afforded by the current authorities, all of these parties, who have been in the coalition, from DeSUS on, must be corrected and brought about some proportionality. We cannot have the highest penalties and almost the highest unemployment and low income in Europe, while at the same time donating Slovenian finances to those countries that live significantly better. That is why this is a sign that we will have better, fairer and more human legislation in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I have to admit that I basically advocate that if someone commits a traffic offence, they will be punished for it. However, I believe that proportionality must be taken into account. If someone endangers human life or property, it's probably not a discount. In case you don't put yourself in danger of endangering anyone, you have to look at it for life. And may I say again the case that we have already heard today, why I also support this law. If someone forgets to extend their driving licence for one day, they get a few hundred euros in fines. You didn't endanger any human life or property, nothing. But it is true that you have forgotten something, it is true, but because you forgot to extend your driving licence for one day, you get a few hundred euros in fines, and it's probably insane. And we must stand up when we impose these penalties in our time. In our time, however, there are 100 euros for the majority of citizens. This can also mean existence. I agree that in times of prosperity it is so – okay, it can. But at a time when the shortage is at every step, when poverty is at every step in Slovenia, it is likely that so much life, because of me also temporarily, we can take into account that such offences, as I mentioned the renewal of the driving licence, will not be punished by a few hundred euro penalty. I don't think we're going to put anyone in danger. We're just going to show a little humanity. I will vote that this law continues and that it is also adopted at the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I too am joining all those who say that this law is unfair according to our standard, because we have one of the highest penalties in Europe, especially in cases where the offences that are do not pose a threat to any security. And the police sometimes work with us as if they are looking for the right points where they will most likely be caught, such as the exit from the vines, where no traffic accident has occurred after statistics for more than 30 years. However, when the congregations point to the dangers of transport safety, the police are somehow deaf. And they say that when municipal authorities can also buy radars and measure speeds, as in Ljubljana. However, I would like to point out that the police are also involved in the seizure of vehicles, tractors, and are farmers even after a few months without a tractor, when he accidentally took a little closer look at the glass at lunch and drove practically onto the lawn. And then they boast that we have picked up a thousand vehicles in Slovenia this year and in Germany about ten in the whole country per year. I think it's right that these punishments are easing to look more human, but not that it's based on the law, then it's hunted down to get as many as possible. If the municipality does so in Ljubljana because it goes to the municipal budget, we have to do much better in the countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Let me add to what I ended up doing earlier on the train. We are working with this law, which is currently in force, but we want to correct ours with this extremely large economic damage. I don't know if the coalition even knows what the law says. The law makes it very clear that a tourist train cannot drive on roads where the speed is more than 50 kilometers per hour. You know I come from an environment where tourism is enough, the whole Rogaška Slatina, already Austria-Hungarian started this, Sub-Thursday. In the meantime we have a kilometer and a few roads where 80 per hour is allowed, and therefore simply this tourism is not there. There's something like that in Portorož, Piran, Isol, most likely. It'd be nice to look at that, too. We're putting an end to this. But before that, once again, I was talking about less important crimes. We do not interfere with offences such as high speed, we do not interfere with offences such as alcohol and the like, which are the cause of the overwhelming number of accidents, including those with a fatal outcome, but we do intervene in the smallest offences, offences which do not mean anything to the safety of the participants in traffic. These include the renewal of the marketing authorisation and the extension of the driving licence. Look, today this extension of the driver's license is happening to many, many people. Why is it happening? One of the previous governments, I think around 2003, introduced citizens' information in terms of 'come and extend the driving licence, come and extend the marketing authorisation'. Unfortunately, this practice has been abolished by the government. I don't think the administrative units have been sending these notifications for two years. At 7, 8 years of age, people got used to these messages, expected them, and now they're gone, and they get into these sort of banal misdemeanors. And once again, if anyone would listen to me, I hope the camera will follow this, I appeal to you to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this bill, because it is imperative to change the stupidities and anomalies that you have adopted in the coalition and, of course, in the Government with this law and also with the Law on Offences, which you have already rejected. It is more than obvious that the objective of this mandate was to increase taxes, excise duties and penalties and thus to fill the state budget. The amount of penalties imposed by this law is known to be uneducated and does not contribute in any way to reducing the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences and also with fatalities. We are facing the death toll, which is significantly larger than it has been in the past period. At the time this law was adopted, it was justified that such an amount of punishment would reduce the worst accidents. That's not true! That's not true! Of course, that's what we're showing now. In particular, such punishments cause a number of persistent problems for people who are most socially at risk, so it would make sense, as this proposal of our law, that punishments where the lives are not threatened or the safety of our participants are reduced and that it is also warned when a violator commits a minor offence for the first time. Much more educational, much more, this is proven, will affect everyone if a police officer, who will stop him for some minor offence, warns him and thus instills a sense of guilt in him. Therefore, I propose, coalition, give, before this mandate is completed, some optimism to our people that this process will continue and that this law can be changed for the benefit of our most vulnerable people, these are those with the lowest pensions and, of course, salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Check-in is on. Mr. Jakob President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I already stated on behalf of the Group of Members yesterday that this amendment to the law is useful and necessary. I also showed a comparison between the same offences in Slovenia and Germany, but yesterday I was not entirely sure if I had the right information, because I did not think they were the right ones, I failed to verify them, they did not seem logical. These differences in many cases were also 2 to 10-fold. That sounds amazing to me. And in an absolute amount. What does that mean only in relative terms? Last night, however, we saw on Slovenian television one of the cases where this difference was also about that. In this proposal, which I have said is useful and necessary, it is not a matter of being arrogant on the road, who are constantly committing serious offences, but we must be aware that for most of these too, it is not a problem to pay the penalty. Those with a steady hand pay the fine, commit the wrongs and act arrogantly on the roads ahead. But as long as it is not possible to respect the social criteria in offences, the fact is that sometimes every person commits a minor offense. [[...]] It's practically impossible to avoid. Nor can the social criterion be taken into account, because we have incomplete and unregulated data on taxes and elsewhere, and many times the data are not correct. As a result, I firmly believe that this law must be confirmed at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! I myself will support this law at this stage, but with one other argument, as stated today. I don't think an empty pocket means someone can commit a crime or threaten anyone. And even when it comes to these little ones, as it turns out, the offenses aren't entirely empty about whether they're threatening or not. As a rule, no, but when they threaten, it is too late to sanction, so sanctions must be ordered before anything happens. On the other hand, I have to say that the imbalance in terms of the penalties that are, indeed, very large in comparable countries, and therefore it is good to correct these things so that we do not deviate significantly in this direction. On the other hand, one life is probably worth more than anything that happens. I must also point out that those comments at the expense of impounding a car or tractor do not contain criticism because the impounding of a vehicle is due to the extreme conduct of offenders who are returnees in their conduct and so on. So I think that's what needs to be done. Why? So that those who need a tractor and those who need a car to work will think about how they drive and prevent them from confiscating their vehicle. I'm not socially at risk myself, but I don't care if I have to pay once a month. Once, when the punishments were lower, I even enjoyed it here and there, and now the high punishment can make me uncomfortable. So I believe that punishment must be punished, but I agree with the applicants that this imbalance needs to be corrected to some extent. I'll support the marriage at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! After careful consideration of how to vote, even though one vote does not mean much, I have decided to support the bill, for a simple and simple reason, even though I have to say at the outset that it is possible to be a little populist, and those who have proposed it may have done so. This same story could be solved by all together before we actually adopted the law, but the environment in which I live reminds me of these penalties. I am myself in favour of the fact that the weakness for all citizens must be equally long. Simple and simple. If someone has 2 000 euros per month in revenue and pays thousands of euros in fines, this does not amount to as much for him as if someone had 600 euros in salary, he has to pay a thousand euros in fines. That's why we're in big trouble. I'm aware that someone can show us Socha quickly. This is a problem that we have to face, but what I mentioned earlier is a question that we have to solve differently. Yesterday I was just watching one of the TV shows where I saw that in Austria and Germany they have significantly lower penalties than in Slovenia. What is the standard in these countries? Yes, my dear, we must be compared, and we must not stand out to that extent. What else is important – what do we have our regional, local and other roads? This is also a question that we should resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I've seen wishes for further explanations of voice. Anyone who wishes to explain their voice, please sign up. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. We are already used to the fact that, when we propose anything, we find that we are populism and that we are only doing things that the public or citizens and citizens like, although we should probably all work in the sense that we are taking such solutions that are acceptable to the widest possible circle. We have warned that the law will not have such effects when the law was passed. Those of you who read this to us should be working early, thinking about it first. That is why we have also voted against and pointed out a whole lot of things that we are talking about today. We said that only an increase in punishment would not automatically mean so much less accidents, at least not in the long run. Yesterday we were able to listen to a police representative who said that marriage always works in the first months, and then people forget a little about what's new and things go back to the old tracks. We may improve things a little bit, but not with punishment. We have warned about this at the time of the adoption of laws and said that more must be done in prevention, in education and so on, but not only in the end, i.e. in punishments, and that they should continue to be increased. We have always supported proposals and changes, which also mean greater security, but with these enormous penalties for offences, as has been said, because you forget to extend the permit and, similarly, when you do not threaten anyone, it is funny to say that if we raise the penalties here, we would solve some serious problem. We will not, and therefore we have, those things that we have proposed to take measures to increase security, also confirmed, and for those things where no one is at risk, there is no point in overreacting because it will bring nothing. That is why, of course, I will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Yesterday we also saw on TV a public comparison between Slovenia and some Western countries. Here we can find that in Slovenia, on average, we have three times the net salary and we have twice the penalty for the same offence as in Austria. This is said to mean that the Slovenian offender for the same offence in this real income work is charged 6 times as much as the neighbour of Austria. I'm asking you if that's fair. All the laws you have adopted and proposed in this mandate are intended or very effective, I will say, harshly for these small people, for small wages, and the average Slovenian does not have high wages. On the other hand, you adopt legislation and implement legislation when you make it possible for the biggest gangsters, those who have taken advantage in cases of customerism and corruption, to enable or destroy everything. This is said to be the case against some procedures, but some things are not even processed, even though independent commissions have found that. In short, in this mandate you have ensured that this state system – not only does not work in the rule of law, but it is also unfair what works. You are extremely burdened and you have burdened these little things, such as, say, Internet users who take something off the Internet, and there will be a penalty of five years. In these largest companies with 100 million amounts, even though many have found a number of damages in these procedures, they do not fail to do so. In short, I think that it is necessary to end this area, that these small things should be treated as small things and that big crime should be a major crime, as they do in developing Western Europe. There is no one who is involved in major crime, but everyone in our country. And they don't punish any grave that's a small offender, but with us it's the other way around, the one that gets hurt the most. I will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I conclude the statement of reasons for the vote in the personal name. We're moving to the vote. We will vote on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Transport Committee for a second reading as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure under the urgent procedure. Since the amendments to the draft law have not been tabled in the second reading, we can move on to a decision on the bill because there is no indication of non-compliance. Neither the Legal Service nor the Government have given such a warning. We are moving on to a decision on the Law on the provision of funds for investments in public rail infrastructure. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 21. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. No amendments were tabled to the supplementary proposal, as adopted on the home working body, but in this law, the Legal and Legislative Service informed me that there was a difference between the decision taken on the committee and the decision recorded in the report. I am informed that Mr Likar, Vice-President of the Committee, will explain this fact and tell us what the correct record is. Here you go, Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have been the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance at this point, I inform you that there has been a mistake in the report of the Committee, namely the correction of the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, reads as follows: "In Article 20, the second sentence of the new paragraph 7 correctly states: If the latter, pursuant to Article 1093/2010/EU, third paragraph, decides to define the branch as important, the decision shall be binding." I ask that this correction be taken into account in the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Likar, I understand that this is not a substantive change, but a mistake in the text itself. Does anyone feel that this should be discussed, or can we put this change to the vote by marriage? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I suggest you suspend the meeting for 15 minutes to verify the consistency of what has been said and warned, and then proceed with the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I accept this proposal. It's probably right that we all have a chance to see the text that we've just heard. The services will prepare amended and corrected texts and put them all on the bench so that we can study them. We'll continue at 4:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u69	I got a notice that in a minute or two the material will be distributed. Let's wait in the hall to take over and then resume the meeting. I ask my colleagues whether they have been able to read the correction of the report, as presented by Vice-President Rado Likar. Can we get to the vote? I am voting on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 21. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act has been adopted. Mr. Tanko? With regard to the continuation of the sitting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I somehow thought that in this mandate I had met all the possible tricks that could be used to draw up certain proposals. And I can see that there are still some of these possibilities; I have one here before me. It applies to the Medical Services Act. I read the report or the opinion of the Medical Chamber, and it says here that in a specific case there is a change to the law for amendment, for correction, for the resolution of the family case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Mr. Tanko [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u72	The applicant’s Zet [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u73	About the law on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Listen, let me just say that I'm done. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u75	We have concluded the discussion with the medical service [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u76	I'm procedurally proposing, Your Honor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u77	and you can no longer procedurally give any more in this regard [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u78	I'll make a suggestion, don't bother me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u79	What kind of proposal will you make? The point is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u80	I'll tell you what, I've got two more minutes to make a proposal at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u81	I know. You'll just abuse it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Mr President, if you have not read it, it is stated that the son-in-law of the proposer who completed a specialisation in internal medicine in January 2011 will not meet the required condition of work of six years in the specialist field following a specialist examination for recognised specialisations in cardiology, although he claims he has a representative [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Mr Tanko, this is the content of the point that we have concluded. This content was told by Dr. Tuckati in his debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Mr Vice-President, I propose that the proposals of lex specialis, not lex Cvikl or the case of lex Péčan, should no longer be put into the legislative procedure and that the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings of the National Assembly should no longer be abused in order to ensure that personal, family matters are taken into account. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Mr. Tanko, that's your opinion. How Marriage Is Made [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u86	A procedural proposal is this, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u87	I cannot put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u88	You can give a warning to your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u89	It is up to each Member to do what he will do, and we know that we who participated in the college will be limited to the end of this term. Thank you for the warning, but I must say that you have misused the rules of procedure to point out once again the question that was read by Dr. Cukjati's discussion with approximately the same words [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Mr President, I have not abused the rules of procedure, I have drawn attention to the abuse of the rules of procedure for the introduction of laws dealing with family matters. This was the point of this procedural proposal and I propose that this should no longer be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-12-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Mr Tanko, whether the marriage is properly filed or not, they judge the services. The law went through appropriate procedures in the National Assembly and was examined. Whether he was correct and good was decided by the National Assembly, which he did not accept. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We have a regular session on Monday, and by then, welcome. The meeting was closed on 12 October 2011 at 16.39.
