ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 20, paragraph 2, and Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Matevž Frangež and Milenko Ziherl. I invited the President of the Government, Minister and Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, Minister Majdo Shirca Ravnikar, Irmo Pavlinič Krebs and Mag. Darjo Radic, who made a statement of resignation, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic at 32a, the President of the Council of Justice at 32bb and the representatives of the Government at all points of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 1. Seven. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. By letter of 6. Seven. I proposed that the agenda should be extended by considering the decision declaring a decision adopted at the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was adopted on 5 June 2011, the decision announcing a decision adopted at the Legislative Referendum on the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black, held on 5 June 2011, and the decision declaring a decision adopted at the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archives and Archives, adopted on 5 June 2011. You received the proposal for extension and conclusions by letter of 6. Seven. 2011. I propose that we discuss all three proposals for a solution together and we vote separately on each proposal. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the decision declaring the decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was held on 5 June 2011. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 2. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the decision as item 30a of the agenda tomorrow, Tuesday, 12. Seven. 2011. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the decision to declare a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, which was held on 5 June 2011. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 71 votes to 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The assembly considered the decision as 30.b. the agenda item tomorrow, Tuesday, 12. Seven. 2011. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the decision declaring the decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, held on 5 June 2011. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The assembly will consider this decision as 30.c. on the agenda tomorrow, Tuesday, 12. Seven. 2011. The Prime Minister of the Government is 4. Seven. The Council was briefed on the resignations of Ministers for Culture, Public Administration and Economy. I proposed that the agenda of the meeting should be extended by a hearing to inform the Prime Minister of the resignation of Majda Shirca Ravnikar as Minister of Culture, by informing the President of the Government of the resignation of Irma Pavlinič Krebs from the post of Minister of Public Administration and by informing the Prime Minister of the withdrawal of mags. Darje Radic from the post of Minister of Economy. You received the extension proposal and the notice of the President of the Government by letter dated 6. Seven. 2011. I propose that we discuss all three proposals for enlargement together, and we will vote separately on each proposal. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. Let's move on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by informing the Prime Minister of Majda Shirca Ravnikar's resignation as Minister of Culture. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 69 votes against no one. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Nobody.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The meeting will consider the notification as item 31 of the agenda as soon as the agenda is set. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by informing the Prime Minister of the resignation of Irma Pavlinič Krebs as Minister of Public Administration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 70 votes against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The meeting will consider the notification as the 31st item of the agenda immediately after the end of the 31st item of the agenda. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by informing the President of the Government of the withdrawal of mags. Darje Radic from the post of Minister of Economy. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There's 71 votes against no one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The meeting will treat that notice as the 31st item of the agenda immediately after the end of the 31st item of the agenda. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received with reference to it and the proposed additions. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 72 votes to 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 30th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We move on to the 31st DOT OF THE DAY – DEFINITIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ABOUT THE LEAVE OF MARY-WIDE LEVEL FROM THE MINISTRY'S FUNCTION FOR CULTURE. On 4 July 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Majda Širca Ravnikar had resigned from her post as Minister of Culture and that until the appointment of the new Minister of Culture, she would serve as Minister of Culture without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Dr. Boštjan Žekš. I give the floor to Minister of Culture Majdi Shirci if he wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members and everyone else in the National Assembly, who have participated with me many times in very long, sometimes more tiring, sometimes less intense contacts within the majority of the legislative treatments that we have had in the field of culture quite a bit! In these bad three years we have adopted and worked on six marriages together sometimes all night, sometimes a little less. I believe that we will continue, after all, to have some laws in place, some open procedures and our cooperation, whether on this side or on the other hand, I believe that there can be only one view in the area of culture: in public good, in honour and in the good of culture. In this mandate, we were able to defend this well, and in one year we even came to the analies after the independence of the budget, and we have probably also come to another book of memories, which I hope will continue to share the experiences and standards that we have introduced at the Ministry of Culture at that time. This is a dialogue, an open door, a confrontation of different views, a forging of thoughts together, not just with those we call to the Ministry of Culture to work on an official duty. Thank you so much, and we're already together today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u3	I thank the Minister for her word. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly notes that Majdi Shirci Ravnikar has ceased to serve as Minister of Culture. Majdi Shirca Ravnikar, thank you for your cooperation. Under the second paragraph of Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister of Culture, Dr Boštjan Žekš, will be responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world until the appointment of the new Minister of Culture. In view of the above, the National Assembly notes, for the first time since Majdi Shirca Ravnikar has ceased to serve as Minister of Culture, she is now acting as a member of the Parliament in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, as of today, he shall cease to serve as Member of the Vito Rožej, acting in place of Ambassador Majda Shirca Ravnikar at the time when she served as Minister. With this, I thank Vito Rože for his work in the National Assembly, and I invite Majda Shirca to join us in our work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Comrade Rogers, good-bye! [[Applause]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u4	I have a question. Can I say something on behalf of the Group of Members? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u5	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this, but please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u6	Allow me, Mr President, to give procedural thanks only to the ministers, the very good ministers are leaving, and a very good Member is leaving. We will remember Vita Rojo after honest, direct debates, and I hope that we will continue to do so in the current composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. 115. Article 115 of the Constitution, which speaks of the termination of the office of Prime Minister and Prime Minister, states that the office of Prime Minister and Ministers shall cease after the election when a new National Assembly, as well as any other suspension of the office of Prime Minister and the dismissal or resignation of the Minister, is held. However, they must carry out ongoing operations until the election of the new Prime Minister or until the appointment of new ministers. Since Article 112 of the Constitution makes it very clear that ministers are appointed in Slovenia, I would propose, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, that the Legislative and Legal Service should give an oral opinion at the meeting on what is going on today or what is going on, that some ministers, on a proposal from the President of the Government, will simply replace these important functions. The Constitution is very clear here. There is no meaningful interpretation of the Constitution and the Constitution provides that the Ministry cannot be empty and would like to have an explanation in this regard, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you, pretty mag. It's a crane. I must remind you of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which regulates in more detail the provisions of Article 234, second paragraph, 'the Prime Minister must propose a new Minister within ten days of the end of his term of office or inform the National Assembly that he will temporarily perform the functions of that Minister or entrust him to another minister'. Article 234, second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The Constitution lays down and details certain business situations, and this is not the first example of this, it has happened several times, so far this issue has not been legally disputed, I can ask the Legislative and Legal Service, but I do not think that this can affect today's journey or notice of resignations. We move on to the 31st B-point of the agenda – DEFINITIONS BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE LEGISLATION OF THE IRMA PAVLINIC KREBS FROM THE MINISTRY'S FUNCTION FOR PUBLIC GOVERNMENT. On 4 July 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Irma Pavlinič Krebs had resigned from the post of Minister of Public Administration and would serve alone until the appointment of the new Minister of Public Administration. I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u10	Dear President, thank you very much for your words and your opportunity to explain the reasons for your resignation. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The framework for my action was based on commitments made by coalition parties in 2008 in the coalition contract, on the challenges outlined by the crisis and on the promise that I will act legally and in public interest. Reports on the implementation of the objectives of the Ministry of Public Administration in the period 2008-2011 and the objectives of the coalition contract which I handed over to the President of the Government at the time of resignation and which are made publicly available on the Ministry's website show that I have consistently followed and fulfilled all commitments. The expressed trust you gave me when you entrusted me with the post of Minister of Public Administration, I never abused and put a private interest in the public interest, and never, not at the time of resignation, did I and did not run away from responsibility. As Minister, I was responsible for the work of the Ministry and was responsible for the work of the Government as a whole. I was very aware of the latter, and I have spoken many times. The train we want to pull to the top of the hill, we need to pull everyone in the same direction up, not each in our own way. That the train is in place, I take an objective political responsibility because I was strung up, and I give up, even though I have scrawny hands. To all those who helped me on the path of the new policy, we lived and built it with me and hoped that it would find domestic rights on Slovenian soils, I sincerely thank you. To all who will actively create Slovenian political space in the future, I place on my soul Mahatma Gandhi: Be the same change you want in the world. But I conclude, the power of the model is in your hands, it's in the hands of the political class, use it to bring back people's faith and dreams. Dear Members and Members! It has been my sincere time to work with you, so once again, I would like to extend my sincere thanks and happy birthday to you on your next journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Irmi Pavlinič Krebs has ceased to serve as Minister of Public Administration. Under the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor, President of the Government, will serve as Minister of Public Administration until the appointment of the new Minister. Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish her the best in further work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 31st C-point of the agenda. I'd rather work with the Ministry of Economy. On 4 July 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that he was a mag. Darja Radic has resigned from her post as Minister of Economy and will serve as Minister of Economy without a portfolio responsible for development and European affairs, Mag. Mitya Gaspari. He wants to speak to the secretary? Minister Mag. Darja Radic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to thank you, on this occasion, for the most part, for your proper cooperation in the consideration and adoption of the laws that we have transmitted to the National Assembly in this bad year since I led the Ministry of Economy. In particular, I would also like to thank the members of the Committee on the Economy, with whom, in addition to considering the laws, we have done quite a bit in my opinion, in very constructive discussions on the subject of the competitiveness of the economy and also on the subject of energy. Unfortunately, some of us have not been able to conclude this mandate. In particular, I would like to thank the Sectional Services of the National Assembly, especially the Law Service, which has sometimes patiently followed us and provided us with professional assistance in the drafting of laws, so that they are also suitable for consideration and adoption. One year ago, when I swore to the Minister, when you expressed your confidence that I would take over the management of the Ministry of Economy, I said that my primary objective would be to raise the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I have been following this objective for almost a year and, unfortunately, within the Ministry of Economy's competence, which is limited only to the development promotion of enterprises, we have actually done all the activities we have planned for this year. However, only development incentives under the Ministry of the Economy are not sufficient for the competitiveness of the economy. Improving the competitiveness of the business environment is key to improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. To this end, I have repeatedly proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a series of measures which, in my view, could increase the competitiveness of the business environment in Slovenia. Among them, I should mention a reduction in labour costs, mentioning an increased and faster reduction of administrative barriers and a faster approach to increasing labour market flexibility. Unfortunately, all these proposals, despite my repeated interventions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have not been implemented quickly enough or have not been accepted. Allow me to say, on this occasion, that I have opened two important questions in this mandate, unfortunately we have not completed them. The first is the most expensive project in this Slovenia, which is the construction of the 6th block of TES in Šostjanje. As we know, there are quite a few problems with this project, I am sorry that I have not been able to bring the project to this extent at this time, so that I can give you the final picture and the actual state of the project. However, I think that the project is in such a stage that it will soon prove to be in what way and how, if at all, it makes sense to take it forward. The basis for this is certainly established. The second story I opened is the unsatisfactory operation with the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Even in this area, unfortunately, as Minister of Economy, I have not been able to convince the most responsible that corrections must be made in this area as well. I hope and believe that, also on the basis of the evidence, arguments and expertise prepared by the Ministry of the Economy, also the Government's intervention, you will also take appropriate measures in this area in the coming months. I thank you once again for your cooperation, and I wish all of you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. In this regard, the National Assembly finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is a mag. Darji Radič quit her post as Minister of Economy. Under the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the appointment of the new Minister of Economy, he will act as a mag. Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Development and European Affairs. Mag. Darji Radič, I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish her the best in her further work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the beginning of the mandate, when we appointed or when you appointed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there were many people in this area, full of candidates for ministers and the President of the Government. Today, when you say good-bye to a quarter of the government, here today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u15	Comrade Tanko, please proceed with a procedural motion immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u16	Yeah, you can't. Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u17	This is not the time to discuss the content of the derogations. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u18	You did not ask your colleague, Mr Franz Yuri, to do so, but he spoke purely of other things, by the way, beyond the rules and so on. So much so that I just remind you that if you make exceptions, at least in the same session, about the same agenda item, be consistent. That's not how it works, and we've been pointing that out for a while. There was no one here. I think these three ministers would deserve the word of the Prime Minister to thank them for their work. We would certainly expect the rest of the ministerial assembly to sit here because I would probably support both the outgoing ministers and the Prime Minister, who is supposed to be doing this business for a while. Above all, we would expect these withdrawals from the Government to be consistent, that we do not have cases where some remain on the government side, that we do not deal with these cases of various political bickering, when the party leaves the political space, only partially from the coalition political space and leaves in key positions both in the public administration and in the National Assembly its exposed representatives. I think that this way to act in a political space, to mix fog and to make decisions is inconsistent. I propose that, in accordance with the decisions of the coalition partners, all those officials who remain in office, either in the Directorates or in the National Assembly or elsewhere, carry out this moral and ethical duty. There is nothing to help us if you send us ethical codes of conduct for Members in these cases. We need an example, and I suggest that you settle all these strange relationships that remain in the public service, in government services and also in the National Assembly as soon as possible. In the political space, it is necessary to have a clear picture, transparency, transparency and I hope that you will do so in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. You've abused that point, the procedural proposal. Before I gave Mr. Yuri a word just because it was obvious that he wanted to thank you, it was just a nice gesture and nothing else perhaps one of you would learn such a gesture, and that would be good. Otherwise, honourable fellow Members, given that the situation in the coalition has changed, I have decided to resign from the presidency of the National Assembly. Last Tuesday, I informed the head of the SD Group and Vice-President Potræ of my decision and asked the coalition to propose a candidate or candidate for the post by today. This has not happened until today, so I will make a resignation statement on 1 September 2011. The National Assembly will take note of it at its first plenary session and will then take effect. On 1 September, so that a month and a half of the National Assembly would not be without an active and acting President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention, and that there will be no misunderstanding, until then I am doing this work as if I were doing it for another 100 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I actually have to work as if I were working for another 100 years. I am adjourning the meeting, which will continue with the questions raised by the Members at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u20	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to speak a few words first at the 40th anniversary of the action of the 25 Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u21	Honourable President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, citizens and citizens! Allow me to speak a few words today about the action of the 25 Members, because it is now 40 years from this action. Although it seems at first sight a very remote event of Slovenian spring, we cannot go beyond the fact that it was an important contribution and an incentive to democratise the Slovenian political space. In the Slovenian Assembly, between 1968 and 1972, at a time when liberal politics was having difficulty awakening and demands for democratisation, pluralism, there were many initiatives and decisions that had already shown the image of true parliamentaryism. This was the time of Slovenian spring, which also included the Slovenian legislative and executive authorities, of course, even within the system, and contributed significantly to the development of democracy and the subsequent democratisation of Slovenia. Four decades ago, a 25-member action took place in the Slovenian Republic Assembly, which boldly reached out to the Assembly Members in an unattainable area, i.e. in the area of candidateing and electing top state officials. With this, MEPs shuddered at the sensitive central point of the human resources and electoral policy of the ruling elites. The 25 Members' Action launched by the three Members, Tone Remc, also my personal friend, Ivan Kreft, and mag. The prices of Matičič are less well known today. She was avant-garde and before her time. Despite the most diverse pressures, they have listed their name for democratisation and for democratic action, which has greatly shaken Slovenia's political space. At a meeting of the Republic Assembly 40 years ago, on 8 July 1971, Remc, Kreft and Matič proposed a supplement to the proposal for a law on the election of representatives of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia to the SFRJ Presidency. The supplement would allow a group of 20 Republican Members to propose their candidates to the Federation Presidency in addition to the SZDL. The amendment was adopted without a vote against. A great deal of time has begun the search for a suitable candidate. On 13 July, a group of 25 members from all the assemblies of the Republic Assembly tabled a proposal in which, as a candidate for the SFRJ presidency from the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, Dr Ernest Petrič proposed a derogation. This was the end of the action; Members withdrew their proposal. If the proposal had succeeded then, it would certainly have led to democratisation, criminal decision-making and, at the same time, clear systemic boundaries of the current political system have also been established and demonstrated. Matyčič explained over the years that the Members crossed the rubikin by means of this action during the course of their authorised speech and writing and the permitted and unauthorised use. That it was a far more important event than it might have seemed at first sight, it also shows the reaction of the party that followed the day after. The action of 25 Members was, as something harmful and reactionary, suppressed into the shadow of history and all its central actors branded as dissidents and enemies of the country and as such excluded from political life. It was not until 1989 that the action, and thus its carriers, was rehabilitated and recognized as an advanced and visionary doing of the Slovenian Spring period. It is right that all those in here, and these are all of us sitting in a democratic parliament, recall these actions and thus give them due attention. Thank you very much. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements on 30 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first question of the opposition member and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to his question, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he remains in the oral reply. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Minister of Finance, Dr France Križanič, and the Minister without a licence responsible for development and European affairs, mag. Mitya Gaspari. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent to President Borut Pahor. First, he will be asked by opposition Members by the winners of the Helinčič Trimeniti, the Slovenian National Party. Just a minute, Mr. Jelinčič. You want procedural, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, President of the Government, fellow Members! At the 28th meeting, held on 16 May, I asked the President of the Government a question concerning the intervention law. The President of the Government said he would not answer that question. He also reiterated the same call. And this ignorance of the Prime Minister of the Government was not actually pointed out by the President of the National Assembly, and he did not ask the President of the Government to answer the oral question raised. We have therefore decided not to raise the question of a Member State. We will not, however, put it down because all the paradigms set out at the beginning of the mandate are being undermined, and then we will not put it on the ground because, in all the key matters, there is no agreement between the social partners or the political partners, because no word actually stands because there is a personal interest in the interests of the state, because it is too much of a bickering, because the exit from the coalition does not mean a real withdrawal from the coalition. This is true both for DeSUS and for Reale, because in the functions of the State Administration and also in the National Assembly, people remain in key positions. And since nothing is really as it should be, we have decided not to ask the President of the Government this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Comrade Tanko, it is clear that you have abused the procedural question. The procedural proposal should address the President of the National Assembly, you have not addressed anything, you have misused it for some substantive debate to which you will have more than enough room and opportunity in this week, and I ask you to voluntarily renounce this practice by trying to enforce as many good customs as you do in this National Assembly. The word is given by the Victory of Jelinčič nobles, who will ask the question of the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. It is becoming clear, Prime Minister, that interpretation of the provisions of the arbitration agreement puts you against the wall. The agreement requires arguments, but only Slovenia has them. Since the tribunal is committed in addition to the terms of the agreement to anyone else, it is clear that all your efforts are to seek out how to avoid a situation where, on the one hand, it is impossible to decide differently from the maximum in favour of Slovenia, and on the other hand, it is an insurmountable problem for you to ignore and not write into the subject of the dispute and the memorandum of existing facts, which and what kind of arbitration agreement is required. The euphoric conclusion of "love relations", joint manifestations, events, climbing somewhere below probably reveals the possibility of negotiating how to get out of the situation in which you found yourself under the arbitration agreement on your own fault. Forcing good relations, including at the cost of the truth about independence and the frightening facts of the past, shows that you are preparing the ground for the measure provided for in the agreement: at the height of good relations and close friendship at the time of signing the accession treaty, you will appear to offer the public a "appearance solution" without the assistance of the arbitrators. The neighbor will sacrifice Joras generously, with a hen's worth, and we'll get an exit to the sea with a chimney. The wolf's full and the goat's whole. It's a mean cow deal! On the basis of the arbitration agreement and in the event that Slovenia places on the table the only relevant relevant fact with regard to the interstate border, that is the border of the country, there is no tribunal that would hope to judge against the facts. Of course, Zagreb would roll, but what, after all, they make up the facts themselves and then refer to them. However, we must not invoke and demand to act on the basis of real and real facts. Is it true, then, that you intend to renounce the arbitration and take Joras and what bridge over the Mura instead of acknowledging the whole of Pomurje and the entire Primorje? And I'm afraid the ignorant Slovenians would still applaud you for it. I believe that these extradition attempts must be prevented in advance and disclosed, and that is why this issue is also a matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Because, and so on, parliamentary issues, in particular those of the opposition, are always a direct or direct criticism of power, which is also right, I must say in the opening today that I, and also the vast majority of my colleagues, can challenge a lot of things, only ignoring this high council is not. I don't think anyone who previously held this responsible, including the honorary position of Prime Minister of the Government, has been to the National Assembly so many times. Not only in the National Assembly, but on committees that were not previously taken by the Presidents of governments as particularly important, but only to attend their meetings. I have often been here, I have often answered your questions and I am grateful to the committees and the National Assembly for helping the Government to find answers to difficult questions over the past two and a half years. I am also working, especially now and before, but it will also be in the future, as long as I have a mandate to find answers to questions with the social partners. So I want to say that, as a policy that has always been in favour of finding compromises that go forward, not compromises for any price, I also want to find, in the future with the social partners, with this high house very innovative, this will be inevitable many times, because the time is yes, the answers to the old and new questions posed by the crisis and the world situation. Now to the question of colleague Jelinčič, who demands a clear answer. First of all, I would like to say, colleague Jelinčič, that you are asking a very similar question several times, always with a background that, as the most responsible in the Government, I have not negotiated in good faith and with a clear responsibility that my primary task is to defend national interests. When such important agreements are concluded, such as arrangements to determine or how to establish a border, then the negotiator must know two persons to whom he is bound in the negotiations and I was committed to the Republic of Slovenia and what his negotiating mandate is. And this is the way that, taking into account the historical circumstances, facts and other relevant circumstances, would lead to a favourable solution for us, which will also be acceptable to the partner party. I would like to tell you something; even in the light of my direct impressions of the meeting this weekend, the Slovenian decision or our decision to try to resolve an eighteen-year-old conflict in this mandate, which was not only political or economic but threatened to become a security issue, was one of the best decisions. Last but not least, people at the referendum welcomed this decision. Investment in this troubled world, investment in genuine friendship and, in particular, investment in a good neighbourhood is, as it is said, the longest-term investment in the good of people in this troubled time, not only in times of crisis, but also in particular because of the crisis and the restless world around us. I am pleased that we have all done this together in this mandate. You mention, in your opinion, the danger that the signatories may decide for themselves to resolve a matter beyond the tribunal. This option allows for an agreement. If the partners agree that one or more issues that are the subject of the dispute will be resolved bilaterally, then they can try. If this is successfully concluded, then the Tribunal will be obliged to respect it in accordance with the agreement. I would like to tell you that the European Commission or the European Council or the European Parliament or any other body of the European Union, except that it nominates candidates for arbitration, has no other role and will not have it through the arbitration agreement. If I finish. Firstly, today I am grateful for the fate and judgment that we have resolved this very difficult issue. We saved him by getting a sincere friend and a good neighbor in our east, an investment in something that we will be paid in solving all other issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Do you want to request a reply? Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much. From this simple babbling comes the fact that in the answer that it was not, you confirmed all the information that I received, namely the information that you intend to leave Slovenia's Pomurje and Slovenia's Primorsko Croats, comes from information from foreign sources, not here from Ljubljana. I think it's a disgraceful act and a betrayal of the country. I know that you like Mrs Kosoreva, otherwise I don't know why, but you probably have some common affinities, but you also agree that in fact you do not take into account the fact that Slovenia and Croatia did not become independent on the same day. No, no, no. Slovenia is 25. 6, Croatia is 8. Ten. When you look at me like that, you can ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he has any business, if not, see the Zagreb Informant of 14th. Ten. 1991, which also published a directive and a comment on the rules on legal affairs, as it says, "before and after separation". This date is 8. Ten. 1991. All legal acts are invalid because at this time between 25. 6 and 8. 10. Croatia was also part of the SFRJ. And you, including those who traded weapons, have been talking to private people for a private pocket, and you are now also selling the Slovenian land to neighbouring Croats for a private pocket. I don't know what you're going to get for free, or the matches or you're going to get some bevanda, or I'm going to get, or there or what, or maybe some property like some kind of Freedom or, I don't know, or Boris Pag or something.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u29	Please, Prime Minister, would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u30	First of all, I deny your belief that anything has already been agreed in advance, except what the public knows about the arbitration agreement. Another time. When you negotiate or negotiate such important issues, there can be no moral dilemma on your part or the shadow doubts about the sincerity and conditions under which you negotiate, because you are personally caught in a position that does not allow you to take decisive and decisive steps in the negotiations. I didn't have any problems with that, and I don't have them today, Mr Jelinčič, and you know that, I suppose, despite what you say, you do. Once again, in the opinion of the Government, the majority in the National Assembly, most of the people who went to the referendum last summer, this is a suitable solution for determining one of the most important issues of our sovereignty. They protected their interests with him at first, and we also took into account the interests of the negotiating party in the agreement, otherwise an agreement could not be reached, but not at our expense. With such a way of solving, Slovenia has greatly strengthened its reputation and prestige, prestige in international politics is a real category and this agreement is applicable to a reference agreement at the beginning of this century in Europe. You can see that if you just try a little harder. Finally, when I deny your claim that, with regard to the final determination of the border, anything more known than what is available to the public, I also reject the laudable claims that in the negotiations I was led by anything other than a desire to do for the good of Slovenia, of course, also aware of the interests of neighbouring Croatia, the region, the European Union, the entire international community, here in this difficult part of the world, to resolve the dispute in our favour. I think that we have succeeded and that in all the other problems that exist, we do not need to think about it today. It's a great privilege. However, I believe that you think otherwise, this is a free country, you have the right to think in your own way, no one should hinder you from doing so, but we also have those who touch us with your criticisms that are not true, the right to reject them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of this, Prime Minister, it appears that you have neither listened to me nor understood what I have told you, that these implementations are based on Croatian sources from before and since yesterday. As it has been shown, these Croatian sources are much more reliable than any source from Slovenian logs. Unfortunately, that's right. The government probably doesn't even know what it wants or doesn't know what's going on with it, but it's breaking up about its own interests, and I am and there, and it forgets Slovenia's interests. Therefore, I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to discuss this matter here and to answer and answer the questions raised. I didn't ask you about social partners before, but I don't know what you spent almost half your time trying to answer me. The fact is that you're hiding the data so that you don't present it to us, if you introduce it to us, you're presenting it to us with a complicated, tangled, semi-precious, and I'm allowing the possibility that even what you learned and what you agreed to in Croatia, you didn't understand, given that, Mr President, that you were running along the Dubrovnik streets, as I know, at the time, the temperature was quite above 36 degrees Celsius, and it's damaging.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u33	Mr Jelinčič, I ask that you remain within the framework of this debate, and I ask you to be worthy of this. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u34	Mr President, I now speak as a pharmacist and some knowledge as a magician. I can tell you the pharmaceuticals. These are facts that I'm not supposed to talk about again when I'm talking about facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u35	This is the National Assembly, not the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u36	But I can explain later, Mr. President, how any such matter affects [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u37	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u38	Okay, well, we'll have a little bit of pathophysiology lesson for you. Mr President, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u39	Mr. Jelinčič, I take your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u40	Here we go again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u41	Please sit down because you have no more words. You don't have a word. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. The Prime Minister of the Government had previously answered my question in his reply to Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u43	Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u44	Let me get this straight. And he said that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u45	Procedural proposal to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u46	Of course I will, don't worry, because I have so many rules. Thus, the President of the Government said that he denied arrogance or ignorance. At the May meeting of the Prime Minister of the Government, I asked the following question: Why are you intimidated by the intervention law and threatened with consequences if Minister Svetlik has made it clear what short-term measures we need? The President of the Government replied, "And even today, I do not intend to talk about the intervention law." Then I asked again or said, "The President of the Government is bold when he says he will not answer my question about the intervention law."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u47	Mr. Tanko, I'm going to interrupt you now to explain a few things. Look, Mr. Tanko, the President of the Government can't answer to you. You have not applied for the question and you cannot put it under a procedural question, and I will not allow the President of the Government to answer it because he would have violated the rules of procedure. I ask you to make a procedural proposal to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u48	Mr President of the Government replied that before the referendum, I would not like to talk about the measures, in an elaborate manner, about the Government's actions following the possible fall of pension reform. So, Mr President of the National Assembly, you have allowed the President of the Government to speak to my question of eight minutes on completely different matters. You're the one who let this happen because you ran the session. Now, just explain to me whether it is ignorant or arrogant that the President of the Government, the first among ministers, is talking about completely different things, as was the question put by the Member State. And here I am just putting my heart at your disposal to be careful when the President of the Government and the ministers answer questions from the Members. We are not asking them about pension reform, we are asking them about intervention law and other things, and they say publicly that they will not answer. And then you, as president of the National Assembly, cover it up. I suggest that you treat the President of the Government, as well as the Members, and remind him that he is obliged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to answer the pre-announced oral question as raised. But you're doing everything else, you're dealing with Members, so you shouldn't ask, you shouldn't make a procedural proposal, you shouldn't want an answer to the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u49	I will be happy to explain to you, namely, this is an exclusive violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the purpose of the procedural question. Mr. Pahor answered you last time. Whether you were satisfied with the answer or not, this is your business. We're moving on. The SD and DeSUS MPs have not addressed any questions to the Prime Minister. Mr. Jelinčič, you can sit down. On the part of coalition members, he will ask the government a question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'll be standing there for a while, by September.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u51	Mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministerial team and to Mr. President of the Government. It is true that there are parliamentary questions and they must be a serious institution and we also get serious answers, but the problem is the round rooms, Mr President, because you can't put anyone in the corner. Now for serious public finances. The question, which is of further interest to the Slovenian public as well as the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, relates to the capital adequacy of our largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, which we know about, and in these times it is difficult to decide whether it is luck or bad luck that it is owned by the State and, of course, also by the Bank of Slovenia, it is necessary to recapitalise it accordingly. One annual recapitalisation of 250 million has been successful, as we have contributed 243 million to this amount from public funds. Of course, this cannot and is difficult to repeat indefinitely, and now there are three concrete solutions. One is whether it is recapitalised by the largest partner in addition to the country, the Belgian bank, the other is to recapitalise it from public funds and the third, or the lack of resources, we are trying to secure it in capital markets, which means that private or institutional owners will pay for it. This means that the country will be the smaller owner of this important institution, to which it will operate effectively, and in particular the promotion, tracking and lending of the economy are yet to be reacted. The good master and the good owner always thinks about the next and the third step, what is the whole point of this recapitalisation if we fail to deal with the KBC. In the media, we have read some conflicting views and opinions about what our next steps will be. Above all, we agree that you are proposing a rebalancing of the budget also with a personal example, which I think is extremely positive, you are calling for savings, and in these times it is difficult to imagine that when we save in many areas, when we reduce certain investments due to the necessity of the situation, I am interested in: What's your relationship to this recapitalisation? Do you advocate or oppose, as we understand from the media, recapitalisation from public funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u54	Your Honor! My beginning of the answer may seem more general, but it is in the context of your question. It's just kind of responding to the atmosphere right now. I think that there is nothing wrong with Slovenia and that it is right that Slovenia joins countries that can also think in one way or another, cities in a humorous and ironic way to address serious topics. However, we need to be careful not to give the public the impression that we do not deserve this in the face of your honest work and our work, to look in some apathetic way at the responsibility we have. I say this because it is possible to ask the question in one way or another, it can be answered in one way or another, each of us is doing its best, taking into account the circumstances in which we are. And they're not easy. Slovenia and the modern world have come out of recession, it has economic recovery, but we can already see some indicators showing that even in Slovenia this recovery can cool down, as it has cooled in our country's most economically agile economic partners in Europe and the United States. Some indicators indicate that I could, I'm not a fortune teller to know, give birth to a new recession. In all this, my dear fellow Saiovic, the Slovenian government behaves as a good management of capital investments and taxpayers' assets. We know what the Bank of Slovenia has said. The Bank of Slovenia has communicated, like the central bank in Frankfurt, the currency group in which we, like the central banks of other countries, have to take care of their capital adequacy in their environments, as well as of Slovenian banks. We have already taken care of this in the first half of the year, namely the recapitalisation of 250 million from the taxpayer's money, knowing that Banka Slovenije can, this has happened again, to call on the New Ljubljana Bank to provide basic capital in its bank. That's the answer to your question now. When the Slovenian Government submitted a sectoral policy for the financial industry to the Capital Investment Management Agency, it decided to order the Agency to draw up a proposal in such a way that, if possible, it is now almost reliable, the second recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank first reaches the instrument of a private domestic or foreign investor. If this tender fails, the Slovenian government will decide how to ensure the Bank's Bank's banking adequacy, so that it is secured and thus our interests, because we are still the majority owner. In this sense, I would like to say, for the first time, that the Slovenian state, despite all the criticisms we have been given here, remains on the safe side of the radar when it comes to the situation in the euro area, in a situation where some countries that have not been in the light of this gray zone have unfortunately been in such a situation. Secondly, with all internal policy instruments, we are concerned that our banking system would be safe – and that – given the circumstances of its recapitalisation, as far as our responsibility is concerned, and that in the second half of this year, if I may say so, in the middle of this year, we have made a decisive decision, from a historical point of view, that when it comes to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, the Slovenian Government, as the responsible owner of the majority stake in this bank, will begin to examine the possibility of a new – third strategic investor – a real domestic or foreign one that will ensure the Bank's proper business environment or performance, that it will be a reputable regional banking institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. You wish to complete your response, Mr Mag. Saivitz?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I must say, I am pleased with the first part of your answer. The thinking is also correct and is going in the right direction, according to the Liberal Democracy Club. At the moment, the strategy for the management of state property is not yet in Parliament, so we would not like to prejudge certain findings or forecasts. Our position in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that this time we need funds for investment, resources for development. That the banking system, which is stable, can also stabilise further and develop with other instruments, is certainly important, we may already have a strategy, but you did not mention whether the option is 25% plus shares and then all further partners are less than half of that share, or refrain from real comparisons and a real scenario. I am pleased to share the joint decision that these 250 million hard-earned public funds can be allocated in this time of crisis better and more appropriately that citizens of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia will have more than the capitalisation of our largest bank, which unfortunately has not always been the best in all business decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u58	I would very much like, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to have this responsibility and opportunity in this composition to decide the next important question of what is the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to governance for the New Ljubljana Bank. Is it our national interest to have a majority share, or is it our interest, that it is a good and quality bank offering adequate financial products that are interesting to our natural and legal persons and also to foreigners as investors or as depositaries? I suppose it would be ideal if we could also have an institution in the Slovenian financial system, which is majority state-owned. I think it's too much to have too many because it would force taxpayers to service them, which would reduce our and your ability to consolidate others through fiscal policy, for example, economic and other policies that are a matter of budgetary policy. However, I believe that if there is a break in the possibilities that we have, it is more important that we have a good, quality bank, which is partly in our foreign hands, than that we have a bad domestic bank, because it does nothing to help us. It's not good for anyone. At this point, we want to succeed in recapitalising to enable the Ljubljana Bank to have an adequate presence, a regional presence in the banking market that is understood as a good bank. It is important for the Slovenian government, given that it has invested a great deal now, in order to remain a reference institution for such a bank in the future, to reach a new agreement with the NCBs or with a new private investor from the country or abroad, and that this remains the bank we want. That is why I would like to say that in our mandate I would like this High Assembly to decide, as I understand, to some extent an overheated political issue, the question of what is the national interest when it comes to the New Ljubljana Bank, and we see that people answer the same question twice. If you ask them whether the Ljubljana Bank should remain state-owned, they will answer yes in most cases. If you ask them as taxpayers, if they are willing to give their taxpayer money to remain state-owned, they will mostly answer no. And it's only two different ways of asking the same question. And you, Members of Parliament and Madam Members, will have to determine definitively whether you agree with the proposal for a strategy that the Government will send to the National Assembly as soon as possible on this outstanding issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We turn to the question raised at the 29th meeting of the Assembly, the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic will first answer the question of mag. Andrej Visiak in connection with the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the lower Savi. The question was asked the last time, so you're only answering now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you very much for that question. The question has a relatively short answer, as according to the current text of the Act on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava, the implementation of the water infrastructure regime and the state and local infrastructure arrangements is foreseen by 2015. It is envisaged that the amendment will extend this period by one, not more than two years, until 2016 or 2017 at the latest. With regard to the conclusion of a concession contract concerning the implementation of a water concession on the Central Sava, it will be possible to accede to the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the Water concession for the production of electricity on parts of the Sava water body from Ježica to Suhadol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic will also answer Jakob Preseknik's question regarding the implementation of the commitments made in response to the questions raised by the Members. Please, Minister Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you very much. This issue consists of two questions. In the first case, I must say that in February 2011, the first working group was set up to remedy the backlog. In the meantime, it has proved to be necessary to strengthen the group with additional expertise, and in the middle of the last month a new, complementary project group was appointed to address the backlogs of the water-use initiatives and these works. On the basis of the regulation and examination of the entire dossier, the first package of resolved old initiatives can be expected by the Government already this month before the holidays, in the form of negative decisions or regulations or concessional acts. There'll be more than a quarter back in this package. The second part concerns the problem of Slovenian landscape, its contamination with shiny and incendiary colours. In this regard, the answer will be the same as it was before. In view of the fact that we see in particular in the countryside that investors of residential and other buildings often use extremely vivid colors on the facades and other parts of the exterior of the building. The reason is more, most often it is the desire that people are different, uniformed, more individual and also respond to advertising, to trends, to some fashion moments, so our countryside has recently been extremely written. The municipal spatial plans in their implementing works define, inter alia, the structure, texture and colour of the facade coat of objects through more detailed criteria and conditions for space interventions. The spatial implementation conditions, including the identification of the colours of the facade coat, are laid down within the framework of the spatial management units, as a result of the professional basis for the development of settlements, which must also include analysis of the typologies of settlements and guidelines for the preservation of the cultural landscape. The expert organisation which employs spatial planners with a licence shall be authorised to prepare the expert bases and the decision on the UNO. The OPN decree shall be adopted by the municipal council with the mayor at the head. Spatial planning at local level is under the original competence of the local community, the ILO and the Directorate for Space, in accordance with the Plan-A PP, acts only as a vehicle for regulating the area of development. In our view, the applicable spatial legislation and regulations relating to the content, form and method of preparation of the UNSC also include the necessary requirements and guidelines in the field of the preservation of architectural and landscape identity, which belongs to the field of colour or the colour of the structures being built. Since there is no doubt a strong and noticeable problem in the space, the ILO will in the future further strengthen the various forms of education, awareness-raising, cooperation with the public concerned, in the direction of awareness of the importance of the comprehensive preservation of the identity of the cultural landscape, also through the promotion of traditional, for the indigenous typology of compatible, the colour of objects. Unfortunately, however, within the public regulation, there are no usable licences provided for individual facilities. We do not have some tools in the legislation, some possibility of a more direct intervention in this new image culture of our rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Jacob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your answer. I thank the Minister for his reply, but unfortunately I cannot be satisfied with this answer, because the answer is literally the same as it was three quarters or six months ago, when I also asked these two questions. If I go first, this is about concession contracts or concessions, I must say that at the time you said you were hoping that in a month, if there was another question, you could say a little bit less. Today, this number has proved to be still the same, however we take it. This is the number of applications, 200 for small hydropower plants and about 100 for other consumers or concession seekers. We also need to take into account the fact that if we only take the number 200, if 100 of these are meaningful, which will end up with a positive opinion or a concession, that means 100 buildings, that means 100 projects to be implemented, that means 100 buildings from which money will flow into the state budget and so on and so on. This is an economic incentive organised by individual investors. In the second part, when we talk about color pollution, I agree, education, awareness and so on, but I think that is not enough. You have already said that some measures will probably need to be taken in the area of marriage, and I expect that, even with the legal regulation, the municipalities are responsible, but it is the country or ILO that gives the consent and the final point to both the spatial documents of the municipalities and can also contribute significantly to the resolution of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Your Honor, as my response showed, as we both found, my first attempt failed, so I had to replace the team doing it. Like I said, by the end of this month, I'm counting about 100 answers will be on the government. But we have gone into this strategy to first see those who do not have the opportunity will be a large part of those who will be rejected, as well as some who will be accepted. Thus we will almost halve this and then in the fall, I would like to put the matter under the roof by the end of the year, because I have set for this mandate that as many old sins as I have inherited, we should put them under the roof, which you believe is not quite easy, because we run many times to the point that the laws of the regulations are only in contradiction as you yourself know, and then we need to fix those things as long as possible, rather than do some things faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer Milenko Ziherl's question about the deterioration of political stability in the former SFRY countries. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much, President. I would have started by accidentally dropping this issue today on July 11th, because I was gone last year and on the anniversary of the Srebrenica massacre, so it is only right that we might remember what happened then 16 years ago, and we see what was done then in the Western Balkans region. The deterioration of the situation in the Western Balkans must be taken into account in some perspective. To begin with, it must be noted that there is no war, there is no danger of war, that this time all countries have the same goal, unlike then, all want to become members of the European Union, but of course at different stages of this objective, at different stages of this objective, while some are still purely at the beginning, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, others are already at the finish line. Croatia has concluded the negotiations, will sign the Treaty at the end of the year and will enter the European Union once in 2013 probably, so that it has achieved its objective. Then we have Montenegro, which is already a candidate and is waiting to receive a positive report from the European Commission in October and that it will be given a date for the start of negotiations with the European Union at the end of the year. Then we have Serbia, which has also taken important steps this year on this path. Of course, all we can do is welcome Mladic, where he should have been 16 years ago, in The Hague, we can welcome the latest achievements in the negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo when some progress has been made, arrangements that offer some hope that open issues between Kosovo and Serbia will also be resolved through this dialogue. He himself saw in Serbia a month or less ago, and from talks with the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister for European Affairs, that they were taking their reform efforts very seriously. That is how we want it, and I think we support them in this, so that at the end of the year they will not only be granted candidate status but also date for the start of negotiations. I think that this would be one such positive contribution from the European Union to the stabilisation of the Balkans. Then we come into more problematic waters, and this is what the Member wanted to ask, of course, Macedonia itself, which has been waiting for a number of years, six years, to start negotiations with the European Union. They had elections, good elections praised by the OSCE as proper, without major incidents, forming a new government, and we hope that the new government will introduce some fresh element in solving the problem with Greece, in solving the name problem, which obviously prevents and prevents, until it is resolved, Macedonia's further steps towards the European Union. And of course, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where there is a real stalemate, is almost one year away from the elections and still has no government. Although the House of Nations was established in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament in June, there is still no government. I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina is true, not only did it not, at the beginning of the negotiations with the European Union, or has not submitted a request for membership in the European Union at all, but it is obvious that the problems within the country are growing. Although the European Union has come up with a new instrument, a structural dialogue where they have taken a look at justice and are trying to adapt this area to the acquis of the European Union. We think that this can be a solution when you start negotiations in some way, even before you start or you slowly adapt the country to European Union legislation, but the problems in Bosnia are much greater, are political problems. I think that here is really useful advice from the first President of Kučan, who says in his report that it is necessary to think first of all of the three nations about how they want to live together in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am also answering the question as to whether this report is still relevant. More importantly, I think it's becoming increasingly relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, who is rightly absent. Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I expect an oral response from Minister Križanič, given that he is absent today, at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The July meeting of the National Assembly began today, and there is no budget rebalancing for this year, despite the Minister of Finance's announcement at the beginning of July, when, at the edge of one of the meetings of the Government, he said that the budget balance for this year, in view of the increasingly tightening macroeconomic and budgetary conditions, should be addressed by the National Assembly at the July meeting. The revenue of the budget from year to year is falling, somehow in this mandate we are at a level of some less than eight billion euros, and expenditure is increasing from year to year, or this gap is increasing, we are talking about a deficit of about 2 billion euros per year, with this government inheriting a balanced balance sheet. In 2007 and 2008, the budget of the State budget was even with a smaller surplus, all of which suggests that at this meeting of the National Assembly, a rebalancing should be considered in any way, especially because the Government or the Ministry adopted a decision early in June suspending the exercise of spending rights on one part of the expenditure side, which prevents the normal implementation of certain important budget priorities or what was planned for 2011. After what the public has learned about this rebalancing, however, it can be found that it is about €500 million that is being broken down, that on the one hand, the funds or inflows provided for under the European budget amount to €215 million, that the government is planning to collect less spending, about €100 million or more, 93 million, and the outgoing Minister of Public Administration has said that 3,000 more employees in this mandate will need to be increased by €120 million. We hear that it will have to be committed and that the balance sheet B provides around EUR 500 million for the recapitalisation of various financial institutions. There is obviously an additional transfer among them to the New Ljubljana Bank, which we have already witnessed with 250 million injections. In the procedure, the law on the recovery of losses on Slovenian railways, amounting to EUR 130 million, is on the resolution of the loss of Adria Airways, amounting to EUR 50 million and EUR 70 million. All of these are expenses that say that the government is in very serious trouble, in what is called an investment part, as well. Here's the highest cut. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What will you do to ensure that investments already under way, in particular those in local communities, municipalities, under Article 23 of the Law on the Financing of Communities, where decisions have already been approved, investments are under way, contracts, funds are signed?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Last summer we met again with the reproducing of the Polish Mayan bug. In July 2010, damage to the larvae of the Mayan bug occurred mainly in the region of Gora nad Ajdovščina in more than 30 hectares of grasslands. In view of the favourable weather conditions for hatching eggs, a large number of cucumbers appeared in the wider area of the Black Summit and the Burial in the Idrian congregation last autumn. This year's damage due to the swallowing of cucumbers was particularly pronounced due to the long dry season, since from 17 March to 15 May this year there was no rain on the Crnovrška and Zadlovki Planota, and it is because of the drought that the fungus, which is otherwise an effective agent against the larvae of the Mayan bug, cannot develop and act. Already in 2002, the municipality of Idrija saw the reproducing of larvae of the Mayan bug, as well as in the municipalities of Logatec and Lenart in 2005. Various forms of development of the May bug appear in different areas. Thus, in the area of Ajdovščina and Tolmina, the population in the airport in 2009 is harmed in the Idrija region in 2010, while in the region of Cerknica they are reporting the mass year of the adult bugs in this year. From September 2007 to June 2009, a very successful suppression of the May bug with this mentioned fungus took place in the municipalities of Idrija and Logatec at a total area of 1,000, 135 hectares, totalling EUR 540 thousand. Minister Mag. At my initiative on 1 June, Dejan Židan also personally looked at the situation on the Montenegro Plane and promised assistance to the country to the affected area. Therefore, the Minister for Agriculture, Mag. I'm asking a Jew: How is the inclusion of this area in the multi-annual development programme of the Ministry? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u73	Please, Minister Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u74	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, we have in this area, because it is typical that farms, especially cattle farms, have had problems with the May bug, fighting to survive. The problem is so much greater because we do not have the chemical resources that used to be used in Europe, they are very limited because of their harmful effects on the environment. So before the time of the May bug, we started chasing his biological enemies, which is the fungus that hurts him. And the problem with this fungus is that it only works if it's a wet year. And if the year it was this year, it just doesn't grow up and it doesn't destroy the bug. The agri-technical measures available are, in particular, measures that are available for agriculture, for drilling and the like, while for most agricultural land and for grassland, these measures can be very limited. We agreed on this. In fact, there are other methods in the world, and mechanical and some physical methods have never been used in us because we do not have these skills. It is also possible to use a bacteria that harms this bug, which is slightly more resistant to inappropriate external climatic conditions. Since these are actually the knowledge we do not have, we have agreed, and at this point we have an invitation to tender, which will end in a good week, it will be a medium-term call that will last for three years, for the first time to come up with a systematic way to answer how to limit this bug, because we will never eradicate it. I believe that, on the basis of these three methods, these are the agritechnical methods that we are already carrying out where possible, then there are biological, fungi and bacteria that will start testing, and the additional physical ones that we have discussed, based on pheromones and some other procedures, that we will be able to maintain agriculture in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek will ask the question to the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič. The last one is excused. Please, Mr Jerovšek. Start talking slowly, she'll come my way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u76	Yeah, slowly means I can ask less then.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u77	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u78	Dear Madam Minister and Minister, both absent! My question relates to the fact that Director Dursa, Mrs Mojca Centa Debeljak, here I have this interview, in an interview with Dnevnik on 2 July, said that Durs finally received information from banks about all 9 000 496 remittances of legal and natural persons, taxable persons, in 29 so-called tax havens. She said that they go together to a total of hundreds of millions of euros. It appears that these frauds, large sums of money transactions were carried out in 2010, and therefore the overall volume of tax fraud is still significantly higher. According to some estimates, at least half of this money was obtained through criminal and illegal financial and commercial transactions in Slovenia, it is stolen money and, in the smaller part, it is a matter of avoiding normal taxation, which is also a fraud of the country. With this gratitude to Director Durs, it is more than obvious that, so far, in the case of these crimes, such as money laundering, business through straw companies, the payment of counterfeit transactions and tax evasion, the law enforcement and inspection authorities of your and the financial ministry have shrunk when they are aware of the crimes and acted indecently. It is clear to everyone that there was a political interest in blocking the investigation. Especially since, according to the Durs authorities, names are very interesting among the biggest cases. Only in 22 more prominent cases have 6 million tax liabilities already been identified. Despite such high numbers and the appalling extent of the country's robbery, he did not inform the law enforcement authorities that they would seriously prosecute this crime of white collars, nor did they report that they would file at least one complaint. I'm asking: Why hasn't the police done anything so far? What political and capital incursions have prevented an effective investigation? Why do the competent authorities not publish the names of individuals who use fraudulent routes through tax havens, as the German authorities have done in a known case of German supporters through the Liechtenstein curve? I also ask: Is the uninterested and anaemic work of the police the reason why some of the so-called interesting names from tax havens are members of some influential families whose connections reach the top of the line?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members! The police cooperate with the tax administration, which is the first competent authority to control such transactions. The police generally do not have data on transfers of legal and natural persons to any country, as this is not its basic jurisdiction. Therefore, it acquires this basic data, supervised by the tax administration within its powers. When he collects the relevant data, if he considers that these data indicate a contentious act, he will hand such matters over to the police. The police then check whether there are any suspicions of a crime, deal with the matter, and any views and checks may be made on the basis of court orders. Such procedures are common in the pursuit of economic crime. It is not true that they would not be dealt with, of course, according to their competence, according to the profession that applies to them. By no means does anyone restrict them or prevent them from doing so. It is true, however, that the criminal procedure and the forecasting procedure are subject to specific restrictions on the protection of confidentiality of data and when the procedure comes into a public phase, as in all other cases, the data become public and not previously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, with your answer, neither I nor the Slovenian public can be satisfied. In your lack of interest in a substantive response, when ignoring the problem of the country's robbery through tax havens, one gets the feeling that it is an approved robbery of the country. Some of the biggest money launderers are also the biggest financial sponsors of election campaigns of some parties. And I explain to myself that the official authorities are practically not interested in pursuing matters that are literally on the platter, some of them. I also ask: Is it true that after the interview was published, strong pressure began on those responsible on Durs and manoeuvres to buy time to erase clues? It is said that your ministry or repressive authorities act foolishly and even look away. I want to know: How many important NLB and NKBM bankers, how many construction barons and well-known mayors and their family members and family companies are operating through tax havens? Are the estranged funds greater than the one-time recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank? At least give me that information, how much money has gone out. There are many of these questions that need to be answered, do not avoid, because the Slovenian public expects them and do not hide under the fact that you do not respect what legislation. Then this marriage filed is only with a fig in your pocket, which you have now filed by government parties. If we do not get information on such an important matter here, I know that Durs will also be blocked and the financial inspection does not participate at all in this matter, nor does the internal ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Mrs. Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u84	The honourable Member, the supervision of the individual transactions, shall, in the first instance, have the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall also be the one who shall normally declare the offence under which the investigation is carried out. Unfortunately, today my colleague, the Minister of Finance, is not to say anything more, that body belongs to his ministry. I believe it's easier for you to make a claim without giving evidence that you said something difficult today without giving any evidence. The police must, of course, act in accordance with the law and must have adequate evidence for all the procedures under way, including work on the basis of cooperation with bodies such as the Tax Administration, the Anti-Corruption Office, then the Anti-Money Laundering Office, and thus all the information that becomes public, that is disputed, treated, processed and conducted in accordance with the law. And I can assure you that as Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? But before you begin, Mr Jerovšek, the Minister of Finance has not responded. Do you want to make a procedural proposal yet now? Please, I can. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u86	Even on the basis of what has been answered so far, it is clear to me that there is no political will to answer these questions. I hope to get the minister's written reply during this time, but on the basis of such superficial answers and for my notions of evasive answers, where it was said that it was not true that the police were not involved, but there were no cases with which, with what, nothing, then I do not believe that it was true that he was engaged. I am sure that if the police were to be involved, they would be interested to see their work as Members and the public up to a certain limit. As a result of this theft of the country for hundreds of millions of euros, imagine, of which at least half of the stolen money went through bank oasis, we are obliged — and due to incomplete answers — to hold a debate. We should do it tomorrow, tomorrow, now we can do it first in two months. But I hope that fellow Members, who are here today from the coalition and the so-called opposition, are now working the so-called opposition to support at least the fact that we will make sure and acknowledge to the Slovenian public the famous names and their families and their family members are laundering money and stealing and tax evasion, and we taxpayers have to pay this same money in the form of recapitalisation of state banks once again. And these are literally actions that limit the country's high treason, but unfortunately in our criminal code we don't have it so incriminatingly, because whoever financially destroys the country, puts it in independence, is a great traitor. And for that reason, Mr President, I expect us to hold a general debate, in accordance with the relevant Rule of Procedure, and to prevent this lack of political interest, that both the police and the financial inspection and other authorities are actively persecuting these crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 12 July 2011, in the framework of the votes. Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnić, will be asked by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! It's been more than a year since I asked you about the high-water dams along the Mura River, and this time I'd be wondering again: At what stage are the activities related to the construction of the missing and, at the same time, to the restoration of the existing high-water dam along the Mura River? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Member Žerjav is probably referring to a high-water embankment in the village of Izakovci. For the dam in question, concessionary Mura-VGP, Murska Sobota, has produced a programme for maintenance works for public benefit. The programme foresees an overhang of the existing high-water embankment of 1.2 metres from the registered high water of 2005. The programme also provides for the sealing of the embankment in places where it proved necessary in 2005 and 2009. On the air side, however, a part of the maintenance route would be carried out. In the area where the so-called high terrace is located, there is a part of the embankment between the towns of Melinci and Izakovci that will have to be placed in the area with the UN and then approached the construction of the missing work. If there are no complications in issuing works on a public invitation to tender and after obtaining a building permit and previous purchases of all land, the works will be available this year. This is a relatively high estimated cost, a few million, so that direct delivery of maintenance works, which might be a shorter route, is probably out of the question, even though we will consider this option, for the course of the works the most favourable. If you're interested in the recovery routes on the other embankments, I have here for you, then I'll give you a little wider written information with a table and a review. The provision of flood safety in Prekmurje is an extensive project as a whole and has therefore been included in the operational programme for the development of the environment and transport infrastructure within the deadlines for the financial period 2007-2013. This is, as we all know, financed from the European Union's cohesion funds of 85%. Unfortunately, because of activities that have not taken place as they should, the project will not be fully realized in this financial perspective. In our ministry, however, we are working on and preparing the necessary documentation on the basis of which we could start with operational parts immediately after a positive solution to the role in the Cohesion Fund for Financial Perspectives 1014-2020. This is said to be the case at the beginning of 2014. As regards the current activities on the high-water slopes of Mure, the priority is to ensure flood safety of Gornja Radgona, which is the subject of an agreement and coordinated resolution of the flood safety of both Radgon, Slovenia and Austria. It is being resolved within the framework of the operation of the Permanent Slovenian-Austrian Commission for Mura. The obligation to jointly resolve the flood safety of the two Radgons is defined in the conclusions of the said Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u91	Mag. Crane, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u92	Mr. Secretary, what you just said is nothing. And so it has been happening to Prekmurc for several years now that the Ministry of the Environment practically considers us a fool, not only on this project, but also on a healthy drinking water supply project. As we drag on years and years, mandates and mandates, we "screw" Members, we ask questions here and we get a red tape answer again and again, "here we are, enough to satisfy the Member who asks that question, and we will have a few months of peace again." That, Mr. Secretary, is nothing. The high-powered embankment was built in the previous term, with the beginning of this mandate everything stopped and now you start talking about the priority in Gornja Radgona. That was never the priority. Last year, you told me that in 2010 the Water Fund programme envisioned the completion of the first phase on the left bank of Mure for EUR 677 000 715 and 100,000 euros on the right bank of Mure Cven-Vučja. Was it over? Was that done? The high-water embankment on Mura across the entire length, on the left and right bank, is up. Apart from what was done in the context of the land being transported from the highway program or, in citing, waste land onto high-water embankments. Don't stop us from planting flowers! We always listen to the same thing. When we ask about the rebalancing, we are told that we will get money from other items when necessary. There's no money now, no high-water embankment, nothing. And we get a bureaucratic answer. And we're supposed to be happy with that? It's nothing, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The minister won't answer. Mag. Crane, do you have a procedural procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u94	I think that this important project needs to be discussed. I propose that we hold a broader debate in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. And this attitude that there is no answer, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, I asked you last year, and now after a year, nothing. Let's be serious!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to his question of the mission, will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 12 July, in the framework of the votes. Breda Pecan will ask the minister of environment and space, Dr Roku Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Mr Minister, in recent months, the inhabitants of Slovenia's Istria have been extremely upset by the announcement of an extremely high nine-fold increase in the water refund for the use of water lands for the operation of ports for vessels. We have learned of this enormous increase all year after the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on your proposal on 3 June 2010, decided to set the price for the water refund bases for this area as well and raised the price from the then 0.208 euros to 1.8 euros per square metre of water. Let me also say that the last increase in the water refund for the same right occurred in 2006 but also then in five times, from 10 to 50 to 50 to the square metre of the sea surface. Thus, in only six years, the price of water reimbursement increased by 43 times or 4 thousand 216%. The ports in the municipalities of Izola, Koper and Piran are therefore public law persons who have obtained a water permit for the use of the port are intended for citizens and the price of the berth is on average between five and ten times lower by the length of the vessel than in commercial tourist ports called marinas. Interestingly, for the use of water land for the operation of ports of more than one million square metres, this is Luka Koper, you proposed the same amount of refund as in 2009, i.e. 0.2086 euros. But you found a new item you called the dock and you set it to 0.0111 euros. Another such significant information, a water refund for the use of water for irrigation of agricultural surfaces, increased by 100 % from 2005 to 2006, from one to two tolars per hundred cubic metres of water, and last year by a hundred times or by 9,900 % from 0.083 euros per hundred cubic metres to the same amount per cubic metre. There is no way to understand that you are proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia such incredible increases in duties that directly affect the living costs of the inhabitants of Slovenia in Istria, as well as the costs in agriculture and maritime transport. For all that I ask you, Mr. Minister: What criteria, and I ask you to list them clearly and accurately, have you been led to propose last year to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to raise water refunds for ports run by municipalities as municipal ports for a maximum of 800%, and for this year you also anticipated the same high, extremely high reimbursement? How is it that, at the same time, while you are enormously lifting port refunds in the management of public law, I do not think that any marina in Slovenia is privately owned by government concessions and does not pay concession fees? Why don't you do anything?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u98	Your Honor! Apparently, the water has been too cheap for us so far, so these high benefits. But when prices rose, we followed the criteria for external costs arising from the use of water land. Our assessment is based on the reimbursement of costs due to water burdens ranging from 1.2 to 2.2 euros per square metre, as shown in the report commissioned by DG Tren for the European Commission entitled Handbook on estimation of external cost in the transport sector in 2008. That is why we are slowly coordinating prices in Slovenia to a level that is also common across Europe. We need to distinguish between the bond fee and the price of the water refund. The price of the water refund is linked to the surface of the water land and the load of water for use, while it contains a fee for the attachment of other costs linked to the Maritime Code and is established in accordance with the law and approved by the Minister of Transport. The costs of the public economic service shall be the maintenance of the port infrastructure and the collection of waste from vessels and the safety of navigation. If the public economic service provides added services, it cannot include them in the price of the public service but in the additional market part of the activity. Water reimbursements represent only a small part of the total costs of the attachment, which include both the market share and the public economic service. At the same time, it is reported that the application to reduce the use of water land has already come to the ARSO, which will also reduce the payment of water refund. Water reimbursement represents a small part of the payments of the whole attachment and has not changed according to 2010. Taking into account the specific circumstances for local and sports ports, the Ministry will also develop a new price for local and sports ports, which are 50% lower than the prices for tourist purposes, i.e. marinas and other ports such as shipyards or economic ports. In view of the fact that marinas which have not obtained or had concessions under the Water Act were able to submit an application for concession under Article 199. of the Water Act, provided that they had been authorised administratively, issued by 10 August 2004. The Ministry of Environment and Space has received an initiative for one marina. We would like to point out that all designated marinas, like all others that have not yet been granted concessions, including thermal baths, must pay a water refund on the basis of Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Water Refund Regulation. ARSO and IRSO check whether all marinas have announced water refunds even if they do not have water rights issued. If the conditions laid down in Article 199 are met, that means that they have a valid permit, these marinas are liable to pay for water refunds. The procedures are led by ARSO. With regard to individual concessions initiatives, it is necessary to draw up expert bases and opinions on the draft concessions adopted by the Government. Due to the staffing constraints, a large number of initiatives are currently being considered at the ILO and, clearly, they are also somewhat late. In order to better address these initiatives, the Ministry has already set up a working group that has joined the treatment of individual sets. Perhaps another answer to a question you failed to ask. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u99	I'll tell you then. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u100	price control law – maybe this? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u101	Would you like to complete your answer, Mrs. Pecan? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u102	So, first of all, I must say, Mr Minister, that you have not answered my question about the clear and definitive criteria on which the water refund for the use of water for public ports should be so strongly increased. That's one. The other thing is. For example, if the criterion is that external costs are so high, I wonder: Who's giving you the cost? Who is the one who costs you, so this burden of water in the ports, in fact, cancels? The Ministry of Environment and Space and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment are certainly not. Whatever is happening with regard to sea areas along the Slovenian coast, we must clean and regulate ourselves. ARSO doesn't do anything! Luka Koper cleans up Luka, Isola and Piran do utility companies, and if it happens to be cleaning something up, we have to pay a fat price. Secondly, do you think it is normal and moral that you have frozen the prices of municipal services last August, while at the same time 800% raise the water refund for municipal ports, which are the same as the canal and waste management of public services, the price of which is now even subject to the consent of the Ministry of Transport, even though it does not seem logical to me at all – not only to me but to many others – what does the Ministry of Transport have to do with municipal ports in Slovenia? Nothing! Because it's not traffic, it's not mobility, it's just an attachment, it's basically a parking lot at sea and nothing else. So I have to say that everything in a row is completely illogical.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u103	Please, Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Regarding the criterion, I said that according to DG documents there is 1.2 to 2.2 euros per square metre, we went to 0.9 below what is somewhere the average in Europe. In this regard, the Law on Price Control gives the legal basis for regulating the level of certain prices, including the prices of municipal services. Water reimbursements are not the subject of this Regulation, water reimbursements constitute payment in proportion to the water burden due to the use of water. Compared to the OECD data, Slovenia has significantly lower water prices for drinking water for all other uses. As a result, the level of water refunds is gradually adjusted to comparable prices. The professional starting point for determining the prices of water reimbursements is the water management plan which addresses individual aspects of water use. By providing resources to carry out tasks under the Water Act, the Ministry must also provide appropriate inflows for its own participation in cohesion projects in the field of drinking water supply and water damage. And here I think that the coastal section will soon have a very well solved drinking water problem, if I recall a little of the latest events. And one more thing, it is likely that this story around the use of water and the prices of water in the future will be quite upsetting for ghosts in other mandates, and I wish much happiness to the one who will satisfactorily solve this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, who is excused. Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I would like to receive an oral reply from Mr Križanič. My parliamentary question, however, relates to the extremely poor economic situation in Slovenia. Over three years, we have witnessed that over 60,000 people have lost their jobs, thousands of small, large businesses have gone bankrupt, and there is much to be attributed to the reasons for such bankruptcy and to the bad work of banks. Banks are those who have failed to perform their functions, have not credited economies and here is also the reason for such a situation. As a mockery of all this, we are witnessing that all those most responsible by the bank nevertheless receive very high meetings and also very high awards, annual awards. Unethically, it is unethical that the Ministry of Finance, which is certainly indirectly responsible for this, sometimes also directly, allows companies or banks in which the majority or the owner of the dominant share to be paid such high rewards. Last but not least, it could be tolerated that the awards were certainly not so high, but at least some awards could also be justified in cases where such banks or such undertakings were successful. But as in a mockery, such high-level meetings and awards are paid in those banks that have operated disastrously poorly. The new Ljubljana Bank, which has already been recapitalised with a tax money of EUR 250 million, will need fresh money again. And it is the supervisors of this bank, who should probably be directly responsible and also pay for their bad work out of their own pocket, that they will now be rewarded with high meetings and also prizes. Is it ethical and ethical for the President of the Supervisory Board of this bank to receive an annual prize, in addition to meetings, of EUR 16 thousand 500? At least that's what was said. The situation is similar in the New Credit Bank Maribor as well as in some other state-owned companies where the state is the majority owner. That is why, of course, I ask the Minister: Why does he allow such high meetings and prizes to be paid? Does he personally, his ministry, the government, have in mind that in those supervisory councils and administrations where business has been poor, he is also seeking responsibility and sanctioning the bad work of these institutions? They are certainly largely responsible for the poor economic situation and also for the social situation in Slovenia. Thank you very much for coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In accordance with your reminder on the topic of the Aeronautic Museum of the Western European Union in the area of the Municipality of Murska Sobota, which you forwarded to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, on 10 May 2011, and regarding the letter of offer of locations for the construction of this museum in the Municipality of Murska Sobota, we have some questions about your views. First time. The Mayor of the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota offers you four or five, for the project and for the local community of the most convenient locations, including variant C, this is the location right next to the Pomurska highway or the future bypass and therefore to a rather degraded agricultural area. In your reminder between these alternative locations, you offer in the area of the Municipality of Murska Sobota two totally unacceptable locations, both legally and for the interests of the local community unacceptable, one of them even in the pheasantry – as you know, this forest – which you should know is protected and cannot be cut and built. Among the other eight alternative locations, there are six outside the Municipality of Murska Sobota, in the area of other municipalities such as Dobrovnik, Lendava, Velika Poljana and even Hoče-Slivnica, is said to be outside the Pomurska region. According to our information on these alternatives, neither the municipalities, local communities nor their mayors are familiar with these alternatives, and it is quite unusual that your ministry has taken such a path to choose possible alternative locations, without informing the affected local communities at all, and you inform the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that unfortunately your ministry is waiting for feedback. That's an interesting way to communicate. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: How serious did you and your services take the offer of the Municipality of Murska Sobota? Are you aware of the importance of that project or facility for the development and survival of the entire Pomur region? Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u110	Dear Mr President, honourable Member of my region, the rest are present, Members and Members of Parliament, viewers and viewers! In fact, Mr Member, you are asking exactly the same question as you are asking why the expert services of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry oppose the construction of a golf course in Sečovje, why there are so many reservations in Braslovč – before the loss of a good land. There are still hundreds of these cases in Slovenia, either because they are not all so media-known or they do not have a Member to present the problem. In general, I believe you know the process of changing agricultural land. We are no longer operating on a political basis, this is not a political issue. Changing agricultural land and using criteria is a professional issue. Minister, I have to say, he's not interfering with the work of professional services, so it's also right that we have them. But I would like to tell you another information, which I believe you will be interested in, about the location you're asking about, and please pay close attention. This one has a rating number 78. To understand what that means! This type of agricultural land is less than 2% in Slovenia, so we are talking only a few thousand hectares of agricultural land that have such a rating. Then you understand – it is you, Mr Member and the other Members and Members, who have accepted you in the National Assembly, here you have adopted, the resolution We provide food for tomorrow – that then in practice with such actions, which then deny the ministry that we are responsible for eating in Slovenia and have problems. Look, we're not investors at a museum or a amusement park that I have to say that I really want you to have investors, and I really want you to take it out, because there's unemployment in Pomura, we just showed you how to look for a location. Search for a location point where there are degraded agricultural land, where there are less quality agricultural land, and in particular we are looking for locations where we have too much resources, these are cultivated land and forest land. In doing so, we must say what you probably know is that in a few decades we have come to Slovenia to see that forestry has increased from 35% to 60% or by European standards to 63%, while investors continue to point their investment projects to the most beautiful agricultural land or grassland. On the other hand, remember that in the meantime the Agricultural Lands Act has been adopted, which, with the financial leverage of investors, directs the search for less-quality land because it is also economically justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u112	In your reminder to the President of the Government, you state that from the agricultural point of view, such an intervention should be virtually unacceptable and controversial because of planning on the larger surface of the best agricultural land and because of the current rules on criteria for planning spatial arrangements and interventions in areas outside the settlements. The Municipality of Murska Sobota has provided almost 100% of replacement land, replacements for the location. These are land under the above-mentioned motorway connections, which you claim to not comply with the conditions of this Regulation. In other words, variant c goes undeniably in nature and practically to degraded land. While you refer to other assessments, you know this also because, like me, you drive around these lands daily, while the Municipality of Murska Sobota offers you even more quality agricultural land in return. You know very well who leases the farm land in question, you know very well what amounts of subsidies the tenant receives from your ministry, and you know how much damage a confidant would suffer if he lost the subsidy concession. As we drive past these lands every day and the cultivation of the pumpkin itself, a slight attitude towards processing and crop care is seen at first sight, as dozens of hectares are in an infested state with weeds and so-called lobo atriplex pathula, in Latin and the crop will be decimated and even destroyed. So, you swear by your own responsible conduct and concern for the exploitation of the best agricultural land, because this is the basic guarantee for achieving the food supply and regulating the food chain system, but you do not sanction the responsible tenants, such as the land we are talking about. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u114	Mr Member, let me once again offer you something I have already offered you, and so, with your left hand, you have thrown arguments aside on another subject where you have probably represented some interests. Look, I'm giving you an initiative: let's take a look at this type of land together with two or three recognised experts for assessing agricultural land in Slovenia. This will not be a tour to change, not to change agricultural land, but as a lesson for you and for me. Let's do this, and I believe there's something else you'll find out: in these lands that we're talking about, there's been a commotion and a melioration. I believe you both know each other well. With regard to what you said last: when it comes to leasing agricultural land and when the lessee does not treat agricultural land as prescribed, of course those who manage it, which is the Fund of Agricultural Lands, have a very clear task of cutting the lease. If you know a specific case, this is all I am asking you to do, but not in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Györek? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do not tell me that there are no such cases, but I would like to experience or see one that you have sanctioned. In this case, it is a large tenant because he leases 3,000 acres [3,000 ha] of land. It's worth millions of subsidies. So it's not the only case. On the other hand, in some ways we would like to force and sanction small farmers who give up farming and, as a result, thousands of hectares of land are growing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u117	No offense, Mr Györek, it is a procedural proposal, not to argue any more. Please. The minister can't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u118	Mr President, to justify the need for a hearing. However, for the land concerned, the necessary measures for the resolution of the Pomeranian region in economic, social and demographic terms are disregarded. This is not only a matter of a few 10 hectares of land, but it is a matter of urgent intervention in these lands for the resolution of the Pomeranian region, whose situation you, the Minister, are very well aware of, would expect this to be done, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, debate and, in some ways, a revision of the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region to see what the real results of this law are and what the Law on Agricultural Lands will bring good for our Pomeranian region, which is certainly one large agricultural land. There is, therefore, a need for one in-depth consideration of this issue, as regards agricultural land and the results of this development support law, and I think it would be necessary to discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Györek's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. On his question, dejana jedan, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 12 July 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Students and students, students and students went on vacation, and according to the current rules on school funds, the period to which schools had to notify or record the need for textbooks for the next school year has expired. Nevertheless, tensions regarding the teaching policy in the public media have not yet settled. Even the Constitutional Court received an initiative at the end of the previous year to assess the constitutionality of certain provisions of the textbook fund regulation. The working group, which you have appointed, respected Minister Igor Lukšič, is also to be seen as the subject of the various articles. This working group, which has studied the teaching policy in various European countries, shows that it does not offer the solutions that publishers would like to adopt. They are particularly opposed to certain rules of the Regulation and to some of your thoughts on how school curricula should work. The fact is that from rental, compensation and redemption, a teaching fund is designed from which schools can buy textbooks. The problem is that publishers are waiting for the possibility of buying back those textbooks that they have prepared on the basis of curricula that, a few years ago, have been endorsed by the General Education Council. So, Mr. Secretary, with this very focused media attention, I ask you this question: How do you assess publishers' proposals after purchasing textbooks in times of unfavourable financial circumstances? What impact does the existing situation have on the learning market on the quality of the learning process? How is the Ministry of Education and Sport involved in the discussion with the representatives of the publishers who see the suspension of the dialogue to the Ministry? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Thank you very much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers and ministers and Members of Parliament! When Slovenia changed its curriculum and programmes in the early 1990s, it also changed its textbook policy. At that time, she had major problems with new textbooks, and at that time parents helped themselves to organize the transfer of textbooks of older, older generations to newer ones, and politics tried to somehow interest publishers in offering textbooks, new, especially suitable for a new curriculum. The publishers gradually blocked this story and organised and contributed to the relatively good textbooks we have in Slovenia. Some even get awards. We also have solid work volumes. As the price of textbooks was too high, there in 1994, 1995, schools began to opt for textbook funds. In 1996, the teaching funds came into the law on financing education and education, and since then they have been the law. What does that mean? This means that the school buys a textbook or with the funds collected, as the Member State said, from the parents with the rubble, then the state put something in it, and this textbook is used every year for the use of the generations that are coming. There was some kind of agreement, some use, that this textbook would normally be spent after three years. Well, some of them could've lasted longer. Of course, it bothered publishers that not every generation bought textbooks, but those textbooks were in line for at least three years at their disposal. The publishers estimated that this was a violation of copyright, mainly a reduction in profits by about a third when the textbook is only one year in use. With the reform of an eight-year-old in a nine-year-old, this deficit could quickly be obtained by writing only textbooks in front of 8-9, but it would have been for the 9th grade instead of 7 8 and it was for the 8th grade, which was earlier for 7th and so on. In short, with minimal adjustments it was possible to bring some differences in. At that time, however, they tried to challenge this article by all legal means in law and then also a number of articles in the rules. So, as some even call it, the war or misunderstanding which it seems to have taken place with this minister has been going on since 1996 and has intensified differently in various periods. In the previous term, under pressure in this story, Minister Zver decided that the work volumes were no longer confirmed by the expert council, which means that the work volumes are no longer compulsory material like textbooks, so the teacher does not need to prescribe them. At the time, publishers thought that the work volumes would fall out of school programmes and in 2006 protested "to the dead", as is now the case, even people from abroad were invited to explain how the country was destroying the market for publishers. Well, it turns out that the number of work volumes has even increased. But now the price of work volumes can no longer grow, all work volumes for almost all items are already in play. What publishers have done in recent years is that they have come to the subjects every year — let's say, if I tell you about the first grade of elementary school. In the first grade of elementary school, children are still unable to read, and math textbooks were 8 in 2006, and 18 work volumes were confirmed in 2011. What does that mean? This means that you can only come with a new workbook if you have a new price or a new price if you have a new workbook and so on. In short, here's the thing. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. At the end of the day, you started to explain the fundamental problem that exists with the textbook funds. If we consider that a rental facility capable of reaching a maximum of one third of the textbook's purchase price, the one for which a student from a socially less stimulating environment can even be exempt from payment should not be a problem. It is true, however, that at a time when the work volumes in the previous mandate from the certification system fell out, the publishers offered the form of a hybrid textbook, meaning a textbook and a workbook in one book. This may mean that it is those children and adolescents who depend on borrowing from the school fund who are deprived of unfulfilled workbooks or that part of the textbook represented by the workbook. This isn't the only problem with the textbook funds for me. It has also been shown that competition between publishers has brought substantive progress in textbooks, while at the same time giving rise to many other concerns. Let's just remember the discussions about the heavy school bags, and I could also tell you what happened. However, the fact is that it is difficult to expect publishers to give up the part of the income that competition on the training market represents. Therefore, I am not surprised by such addresses as this: Between regulations and swallowing, where even school fund administrators or school fund administrators can become subject to treatment, considering that the textbook funds are becoming too rich. Thank you for that, too. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, will you complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for this addition, too. I would like to answer that first part about the discussion. Minister, as soon as I arrived in February 2009, I appointed a working group between publishers and the Ministry, meeting once. At that time, the Ministry's representatives were all appalled at the way publishers performed and then reformed the group, asking the publishers to join the Chamber of Commerce to organise and perform together. You can see that even now, when "how" are organized together, they perform individually, plus together, by trying to achieve the greatest possible effect on the public. In short, this group is still in operation, only what it has to do with: the country gives €3 million per year, parents give €17 million per year for work volumes, about. That's 20 million euros. The book on the bench and the working link on the bench would cost an additional EUR 25 million. Look, now the publisher's proposal is this: if both textbooks and workbooks were to come to the bench, then the price would be half lower, it would be 20 million. As much as it is now. What they would do here: remove the workbooks and the textbook on the bench. In short, neither parents nor the state gets anything with their proposal, but they get better starting points because they can then hold the price of textbooks or produce anything every year. Here parents have the opportunity to influence the price of textbooks, etc. In short, the dialogue is not interrupted, the dialogue is ongoing, I will now talk with the parents who have now formed a national union, the national union of parent societies, who would also like to come into this dialogue, so they say that this is not just a debate between publishers and the state, that it is also something about them, so we will also put parents in, we will put together teachers, representatives of teachers and representatives of textbook writers. It is said that all groups with an interest in textbooks will be able to be present and that this will not only go to a semi-lobby lobbying organisation where publishers can put pressure directly on the ministry of their own volition. I don't think this observation is just correcting that the ministry isn't dialogue. Yes, it is. But it is true that it is a "dinner" of 20 million additional funds, which, of course, is not a problem to go to various agencies that work twice a week at a press conference and put pressure on the minister [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Like I told you, it's not about the minister. This is a 1996 issue, the teaching fund, and this is some good solution that this country has, which has already gone through a number of different governments. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! I was sure that this question would no longer have to be asked, but given the last decision adopted by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, I cannot go beyond that. The conclusion was adopted that the Committee took note of the information provided by the Ministry of Education and Sport on the eligibility of the introduction of a single winter school holiday term for 2010 and 2011. However, the material dealt with on this Committee shall be entitled the Procedure for the Adoption of the Rules of Procedure amending the School Calendar Rules for Primary and Secondary Schools. Why am I saying that? Because, in the report submitted by Mr. Boris Črnilec on this Committee, he referred to two studies carried out by Ninamedia on the subject of winter school holidays as a basis for maintaining a uniform term in 2011, which, in my opinion, is contrary to what we adopted at the joint meetings of both committees, both the Education Committee and the Economic Committee, where it was clear that the committees should propose to both ministries, to evaluate the effects of the winter holidays and to take a decision on any changes, in accordance with the procedures envisaged. In this paper, which was forwarded to the Committee on Education and Sport, I have nowhere to find anything on this committee, which was established by the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is also supposed to make some recommendations, guidelines for further action. This material, which has been transmitted, also makes it clear that the Ministry of Education and Sport, through the process of amending the school calendar rules, has always advocated the majority position of parents, schools, teachers, administrators and professions, which is, of course, acceptable, but it is probably necessary to look at the whole picture in this country. However, it is also the phrase "parents are at meetings at the Ministry...", it is said that the ministry did not go to and get this initiative when meeting after school, but clearly writes the text from the material provided by the Ministry, "the parents expressed their desire at meetings at the Ministry for a single winter holiday" and so on. I also have a problem with an article that was transmitted on the basis of this material and says that the winter vacations were not harmful. Mr Minister further explains that it is not possible to obtain certain data that are available to all. That's why I'm asking the Minister: On what basis did he again decide to remain united, although it was also announced by the President of the Government that this would be properly processed and decided on this basis?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u129	Here's your word, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank Mr. Guilty for the question. I must say that I share this view with him on the need for this issue. In fact, after we answered this question before this one-off holiday occurred last July twice, then the Minister of Economy in September, and then we had two meetings of committees and we cleared up these matters. It's all before the holidays. After a one-time vacation and when we realized that all these fears had not been confirmed, it was said that there was no crowd on the roads, there was no crowd on the ski slopes, there was no loss of 15 million – there was talk of loss – there was no additional outflow of Slovenian tourists abroad. We surveyed and found that according to one data, as I have seen, 5% of Slovenian skiers went skiing abroad in 1980 and 2011. Two analyses were made in January and February, both showing the same percentage, around 4%. We saw that there was no crowd, because, as you know, all the media were waiting to show how crowded it was, there was no accident. I have designed, as I have already said in response to the question, and then on all the other five occasions, where I can talk about it, that we will focus on this issue; we have formed a data collection group, there have been representatives of tourist organisations in it, and they have had every opportunity to give all the relevant information that is available. They gave all relevant information, and what did we find? In the first quarter, the tourism industry raised its income by 7%. One of the most pulsive industries. Some of them still claimed to be crazy expenses at the time. In one college they even realized that all of Slovenia's tourism would be affected by this. I have first called or asked the Chamber of Commerce, which is most competent to determine how and if they have a methodology for the transfer of income between individual sectors and have not responded to today. Similarly, I asked for analyses, detailed analyses of what happens this weekend with household expenses, say where they go, where they go. Three representatives of the institutes and the Faculty of Economics responded. After an hour, we discussed how this could even be measured so that we could see what is happening to this revenue spill. It means whether people took this money, say, into the thermals, whether they carried it out as tourists going on winter vacations to warmer places or going abroad or whatever. We have found that, according to the data made available by Slovenian sources and also by the economic institutes, this cannot be ascertained. But you know, they've still said, and I know that some Members here will still say that it was because they know how it happened; and these colleagues said that there is no way to find out, except through research, that it's worth between 100 and 150 thousand euros to go globally, deep down on some sample and so on. In short, this could be determined by some in-depth study. And now, I have committed myself and you know that the Prime Minister of the Government has even said twice publicly that he will insist that all the facts be verified. And we have checked all the facts available and found that none of these facts speak against not staying at the decision last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, please choose a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you for this answer and for one big lecture on some studies and I don't know what else, because the conclusion on both committees was clear that the results were being evaluated and these results were measurable because they could be obtained through statistics. And I'm also asking: Where are the records of this Interdepartmental Group established by the decision of the two Committees? I would like to ask the Minister, because I have information that there was a vote on what these measures were or what this change meant on this committee. According to my information, it was 6:1 in the event of a vote where the Ministry of Education and Sport's proposal was to change time again and to reintroduce two deadlines. It is said that the Commission was more or less uniform on the basis of the data collected that it actually had an impact. Also your comment in the Journal that there was no impact on tourism and so on – it is not true at all! The data is clear, and here from the tourist economy, it is clearly said to me that this is misleading and offensive on your part, especially in the fact that you have stated that you will only take into account the official data of the SURS, and the Secretary of State is talking about two Ninamedia surveys, which is the basis for the decision to extend the holiday. Also by Slovenian natural health resorts, it is said that the comment in the article is purely a lie that the economic losses did not occur, which is what you comment on in the Journal. I'm so curious: How is it that the records or at least the data of this evaluation group that you have appointed do not appear in any documents? For this was in some way a request from the two committees that, on the basis of these relevant data which will be collected after the end of this first period, when the holidays are combined, be used as a starting point for decision-making. The Committee on Education and Sport did not have this on the table, and the Committee on the Economy has not seen it – I apologize for culture, education [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Luksic will complete his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you. Look, it wasn't an interdepartmental group, it was a data collection group set up by the minister. What was set up by the committee, I don't know anything about it, because it's not my responsibility. It was the responsibility of this committee not to ultimately vote on what they thought, but to collect all relevant information. So if anyone voted there, they could raise their hands, but it wasn't his jurisdiction. We collected all the data that was available. Everything! And we've called them many times, but you know what it's like, not everyone's interested in showing all the data because they have problems. For example, Kanin ski resort had 5% more traffic and income than it did last year. They only had problems on one of the skis. But why? You know why? Because they didn't accept that they wouldn't be separated. For example, some hotels continued that week, for which it was clear that there would be no Slovenian tourists, did not sell on the foreign market, but kept it to the end. What is the biggest problem, I have met with a lot of directors on this topic and I asked them to do something to ensure that our children spend their entire weeks in nature, when they learn to ski, in Slovenia, and do not go to five-year contracts abroad, especially in Austria, where they offer better conditions for less money. Let them do something about it, and they'll have the whole season covered. You know what the school ski system does? It's in the program that every child should learn to ski. This is the largest long-term investment in Slovenian skiing. We make skiers. Not to talk about other segments of what we do for Slovenian tourism within this. Let's say what I've said several times before, Pokluka, the country has given more than 2 million euros to have Pokluka. And this custom that we've been seeing lately, let's say that people don't go so massively anymore on classical skiing, but they go more and more into ski runs, which has also been shown: The hatch was full all the time. So, even this movement in the recreational habits of humans occurred at this time. Of course, what is very important is that there has been a crisis and you know that skiing is significantly more expensive than other recreational activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec wants to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u136	I propose that the Minister's reply be discussed at the next meeting. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the materials that were given. They refer to surveys conducted in 1980 and 2011 and conclude: "The Ministry of Education and Sport believes that all further research and analysis, as already done, will show what preliminary results show..." And so on. So there is no talk of data being collected, but there are some analyses and surveys that the secretary has also said. I will also read the minutes of the evaluation group or the decision they adopted: "The evaluation group proposes, according to all the data collected, to the competent minister to introduce even three weeks of winter holidays into the rules." That was the suggestion. They further state: "The Ministry of this Decision has not entered into the minutes nor has it taken into account in the drafting of the opinion. The entire Commission considers that the Ministry of Education and Sport has misused the members of the Commission to legitimize its views and in fact disregarded its substantive and procedural views..." And so on. Because of all these allegations, the deceptions the Minister has been giving all the time, and it will obviously take over the Ministry of the Economy, because it is also the best thing to do, and it thinks only on winter vacations about skiing, but forget about the resorts and everything else where it can find its own data, if this group has not gathered them well enough, and you would probably find that in this case economic damage has been done, the data are relevant, I have them collected by these institutions, probably you have seen them too. But you insist on Ninamedia polls and 1980 polls and something else. You claim that this is an irrelevant issue, so I demand that this be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Krivec, to discuss the response of Minister Luksic, will be decided tomorrow in the course of the vote. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Article 14 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Secretary-General is expected to transfer all land, farms and forests in social property to management of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. I will continue to present the problem of the hunting family from my environment, from Ljutomer, but many families face the same problems throughout Slovenia. The Ljutomer hunting family should immediately transfer 14 plots of 64 thousand 707 square metres to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in March 2011, and geodetic procedures are under way on 16 sites of 58 thousand 220 square metres. Most of these hunting grounds were purchased by the Ljutomer hunting family, and for others she was awarded a management concession. Of course, it is expected that after the transfer of land, the hunting family will also pay the farm rent, which is financially burdensome for the hunting families, even if we consider that they are already paying the concession, while at the same time being financially burdened by the damage caused by the game on crops and vineyards, they are afraid that they will not be able to cover all the financial obligations imposed on them in the future. Given that it is a hunting family, which is leading in Slovenia through the stock of small game, natural rabbit, pheasants, it is important for them to have essential land, as there are feeding grounds that are properly arranged for the game to have enough food and, of course, also covering. Of course, the Ljutomer family did not sign a contract with the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to transfer the land to the management and management of the fund, so they will discuss the subject in court. Since this is a broader issue, I ask you, Mr. Minister: By what measures will your ministry ensure the smooth implementation of the law in order for hunting families to be able to cope with the additional financial burden posed by rentals for land that were ultimately under their control or even owned by them all these years? Do you think at the Ministry in the direction of hunting families and similar NGOs to find a solution that will not go at the expense of the additional financial burden of these organisations and at the same time allow for the separation of property rights?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u139	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food will answer the question of Mr Jurša. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u140	Dear President, honourable Member, Members and Members of Parliament! You have rightly listed the procedure defined by the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, which is the same as it is, and you will understand that my answer can only be legal; that is, as the law imposes it. Under this law, under Article 14, the registration of social property in the land book shall be made at 11. 3. 1993 and the intended use of agricultural land then happens to be the way Ljutomer’s hunting family acquired land, paid off, unpaid, and were on the 11th day. 3. 1993 in the Land Book entered as social property, the transfer to the Republic of Slovenia is simply not important. Therefore, the conclusion that, in a particular case, the hunting family has purchased the land concerned in the past does not detract from its obligation to transfer the land to the Republic of Slovenia and to the management of the fund. If there is no agreement, however, it is the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that the transfer takes place on a judicial basis, which you now, Mr Member, have mentioned, is clearly happening. What you have to say is what you have to say. Following the entry of ownership rights in the agricultural land concerned, it is possible to conclude a direct lease contract without public publication of the offer, which is in accordance with the law, and, at the same time, what is important is that the purchase for the land which has been transferred is taken into account as a net for the lease. This netting shall last until the value of the purchase reaches zero. That's the current legislation. Current legislation does not provide for a different treatment of the hunting family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u141	Mr. Jurša, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary for an answer that I cannot be satisfied with. I ask you that you are the owner and that the state will nationalize your assets: How would we think about that? Are you thinking maybe in a direction that we will change the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and, of course, leave their assets to hunting families? You know, by paying off the rent by forcing the sale of the land of the stock, both you and I would probably disagree if we were landowners. I think that this is a huge injustice and that there is still time in this mandate for you to take a step in this area as well. I want to know: Are you prepared to do something like this?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dejan Židan will give an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u144	Dear Member, I agree with you that even if in the past there has been any kind of injustice committed by any law, we are not obliged to try to eliminate this injustice. I am thus giving you the initiative to come with the representatives of the hunting families to me, to see whether there is any possibility already within the law that the life of hunting families can be made possible, or to see if the profession can assess that there is also a need to make any changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Ambassador Branko Marinič will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The tourist season is also known in the Republic of Slovenia on Slovenian motorways and state roads. Minister of Transport, Mr. Vlačič, I ask: Did the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia do everything necessary to make tourists who only transit Slovenia feel good? We are witnessing some unnecessary setbacks for which an objective responsibility must be assumed by your ministry. Above all, it is about creating long columns on those sections of highways that are not completed, despite the fact that the National Assembly has accepted what is within its jurisdiction, but despite the fact that some things do not come to pass or you get the feeling that some things are deliberately delayed or not happening. We are thus witnessing the creation of columns where there are still unnecessary influences since spring 2008 that have lost their purpose when the so-called toll stickers are in place, when it is not necessary to pay the toll on the previous classical system. We are witnessing to many dissatisfied tourists waiting in a column on the highway section from Dražac to Slivnica or Slivnica-Gruškovje to cross the border for more than 8 hours. It is an outrageous act that the Ministry has not listened to in time, for it is also a threat to the safety of people who have to cross roads where virtually the columns are ten miles and more. Dear Minister, I ask you: What have you done or what measures have the Ministry taken to improve this situation? I also ask you: How much of the guarantees adopted by the National Assembly in December 2010 amounting to 298 million have you used for these purposes to improve road conditions?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dr. Patrick Vlačič will answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, traffic loads mainly of transit roads – this is one of those you mentioned at the end, because the transit road, which mostly does not serve the mobility of our inhabitants, but the mobility of the people from central Europe to Croatia – in fact represents a significant increase in traffic during the tourist season, constitute congestion and also causes congestion. The road sections, the intersections, both in us and in Europe, are not dimensionalized to the final traffic loads, but to the average traffic loads, taking into account the 20 years of the plan. These conicals can be daily, at specified times, can be seasonal and this motorway section is such that it has these severe conical loads. We're aware of that. Thus, in 2010, the average annual traffic on the motorway between Maribor and Ptuj was 16,000 vehicles, which I have to say is not very much, you need to know. While the maximum load is, it was recorded on Saturday 31. Seven. 2010 33 thousand 768 vehicles, which is already a considerable burden, of course for the ordinary road, the highway must bear such load easily. Such occasional increases in traffic are in most European countries, across or within roads to important tourist objectives, and are the reason for the congestion. Because we can't build a highway so that in all possible situations we're totally comfortable because it's just too expensive. "We can't afford it. There, as well as with us, we try to avoid this by informing drivers about the state of traffic. In addition to the messages transmitted through our media, via a special radio, which informs you in various languages, through the number 1970 you get information not only about what waiting times are, but also about alternative routes. Then the passengers are also helped by water distribution, and sometimes the firefighters help Darsa’s workers here. This year, as you can see, there are no special congestions due to maintenance. There were no special reasons for the maintenance work because there were very many complaints and Dars could not choose the maintenance workers. This is relatively good for failure, but it is not good for maintaining highways. But no matter what, there aren't any of these causes this year. As for toll stations that are crossed by passenger vehicles without stopping, we do not record any longer congestions. Due to the traffic signalling of the reduction in road speed and permeability at these sections, which is however such that it does not cause major congestion, we must, of course, do it at some point. But I've explained many times what's the problem with the demolition of toll stations. Now I'm going to tell you again just for a little while. The first reason is that until new tolls are introduced for trucks, the call will be published very soon, the question would be whether such demolition would actually be meaningful from the point of view of taxpayers. In fact, we should build special bridges so that those who toll trucks have access to their houses, so we must ensure safe access to their houses, this is the first thing, or build accessible routes where they are not, which would result in very high costs. Then the road profile here is not what it is on the highway, and it could be caused by what is called aquaplanning, when there are large floods, because the levels or the slopes of the roads themselves are not what they are elsewhere on the highway. Including trucks after they pay, it would be problematic to get on the market. The design of these toll stations is not such that they can only be cut off, drawn in the middle, removed and abandoned. There are so many of these reasons that cause these problems. As far as the toll station demolition project itself is concerned, the basic project has been prepared, construction permit activities are under way, and as soon as the new toll is chosen, this toll will also be removed with the new tolling. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Marinic wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u150	Well, just the unfinished sections of the so-called Podravska highway from Draženci to Gruškov in fact require immediate action, which shows the facts, but the picture is quite the opposite; it is as if your mandate goes solely to ensure that things do not happen. And we can witness the actual state of affairs on weekends, when there is practically a 10-mile-long column, the passengers in cars are waiting for 8 hours or more, the people who have to cross a road that does not have these standards in such an increased traffic are dissatisfied, and the worst part is that the safety of road users who have to cross this road because they live there is at risk. Until nothing happens, it's all O.K. Dear Minister, I've really listened to your answers a few times, and I get the feeling that you don't want anything to happen on purpose. As is the case when we are talking about the so-called establishment of a centre for railway infrastructure within the framework of the DRI in Maribor, where virtually nothing is happening, they are moving, nothing is happening, and so-called social damage is causing. Again, I ask you: What exactly are you and what will you do in the coming days, weekends to reduce such a situation in order to improve the safety of road users who have to cross the road? How much money did you use from Darsa’s debt — the guarantee bill we passed last December, amounting to 298 million? So you have everything and nothing happens!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u151	Minister Wlačič will complete his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u152	You really are a little bit of a proposal in the National Assembly to accuse me of nothing happening because you know how to build highways. The VAT is first accepted – we accepted it. Then there's the design, because you can't design until the D.N.N.A.'s accepted, and the land purchase, because you can't buy until the DNP's accepted, because you don't know where the highway's going to run. This is happening now. So you can't build until the land is bought. So there's no money spent from the guarantee for this section because it can't be, Mr. Marinic, and you know it. And of course you also know how much time is spent in Slovenia to buy land and how long the design is taking place. Of course, this can't go much faster than elsewhere, because if we want this highway to be built with tax money in a way that fits the rules, it will be able to guarantee what you want, the mobility of the population, but it will have to be given to the designers so long that they can draw it as they need to. And to those who negotiate with people so that they can buy the land in the right way – because we can't just screw up the land, you don't think!? So it's not true that things don't happen! They're going exactly as they should, there's no backlog, there's everything within the deadlines, we've talked about it many times, and I've been there, and we've already told you there, where it's been, and what the timelines are, and since then they haven't changed, so I can't accept your accusations. And please don't fool the Slovenian public when you talk in front of the National Assembly like that, how nothing happens! On the contrary, everything runs hand in hand as it must — as far as this section is concerned. However, there has not been any money spent yet, and once again as a Member of State, you know that it is the duty of the State to do all the work until the building permit, which means providing money for the land, providing money for the design made by Dars as an agent for the country, and only then does the law of guarantee come into play — once it is built. Only then will it be your turn. Until then, not a single euro will go to this section because it is not a system. The purchases of land go after Dars' payment with the State budget refund, the design comes from the state budget and then only after the construction. And this money will only be used in the construction of the guarantees that Dars has received and that he has not yet been able to spend the euro. As long as it doesn't start to build, there won't even be a euro guaranteed by what you're worried about. But don't worry about this section. I already told you, this is one of the few sections due to the large number of vehicles that will probably not even need state guarantees because the physicality of this project is so good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ambassador Andrej Magajna will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u154	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The contract of employment between the worker and the employer, in this case, I think of the employment agency that carries out the activity of providing work to another user, so to speak, the agencies lend workers to different companies. Article 58 and Article 60 of the Law also discuss the remuneration of the employee at a time when the worker loses his job in the company and waits for another user. At this time, it should receive 70% of the salary so far. Everything's fine and fine. But I hear it's almost gone. We have 100 employees, some agencies also lend hundreds of workers, when I do some research, we don't know if anyone gets a salary when they wait for another user. If this is not to the right extent as it should be, this institution of employee lending has actually been born. Actually, I'd like to find out today: Does the Ministry have this information? He's got a lot of data. Every year, the agencies send it to piles of paper: reports, accurate reports. But if it actually comes to what we call negative or dirty flexibility, it should be studied. But I think it will also be necessary to change the law, because these abuses will happen, and unfortunately I see that this is happening through the lending of workers. And I'm going to ask you an answer first, and I'm going to ask you a further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you so much for asking. Mr Member, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me immediately say that the Labour Relations Act in fact provides that the worker and the employer, that is the agency and the employer, must also agree on the amount of remuneration for the period of early termination of work with the user or for a time when the employer does not provide work with the user, and that this cannot be less than 70% of the minimum wage. It is clear that this is the initial and primary relationship between the employer, the so-called agency, and the employees, and that the state is not in charge of having – and also does not have a basis for having an insight into this contract as to how they agree with each other. These contracts can be very different, they can also work with the Agency for a certain period of time and then this need is also eliminated. But if it is for an indefinite period of time, it is again a matter for the employer and the worker to conclude this contract. Thus, except of course, if the State were the employer, but in this case it could not be, it could also keep this record. This does not, of course, mean that the work of the Agency is not being monitored in this area. The work inspectorate shall monitor the work of the Agency. Let me say that in last year there were 34 infringements in the case of the intervention of work without the Agency entering the register, this year there have been 12 such violations, and that, for example, 19 infringements were found last year when such an agency did not have a concession contract. In short, this activity is monitored, but only where the inspectorate has the appropriate legal basis for this activity. If it were to be possible for the Agency not to pay these workers a salary or anything like that, then the Agency shall be subject to the same sanction as all other employers. This means that, in the case of an offence, an appropriate fine shall be imposed when it comes to a criminal case and an appeal shall be issued in that case. Complaints may be made by different institutions, inspectorates, unions, workers themselves and so on. However, the fact that an employer commits a misdemeanor and does not pay the employee's wages and then the inspectorate gives the employer an appropriate fine does not mean that the employer will actually pay the worker what he has to pay. This is then a matter of court in which they are justifiable if, of course, they cannot agree that this obligation of employer would be paid to the worker. In short, since this is a contractual relationship, the courts are primarily competent to enter into this relationship when there is no agreement between them. We have seen this problem for a long time, and we are also working to improve it. Among other things, the Labour Market Regulation Act now lays down stricter conditions for who may be the mediator of such work, who may be such an agency. If, in two years before he wanted to register, he did not have a work relationship offence, then he can do so, or if he has paid all contributions and wages, he can do so, and if he commits an offence, he can also be banned for five years. That's how it's regulated in this law. At the same time, we intend, and this has already been done in the form of a proposal, to amend the Labour Relations Act, which would provide these agencies and these procedures more precisely in order to better regulate the situation of these workers. I would point out once again that this is primarily a contractual relationship between the employer and the worker and that it is the responsibility of the courts to recover these contracts as well. The inspectorate may file an indictment or fine for a misdemeanour, and he may proceed and have the authority to act, unfortunately. However, the courts that work as quickly as they work are further empowered. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Magajna will request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u158	Yes, of course I will, because I know this area very precisely and also the practice of what is happening. Just illustrative. Last month, the worker says she doesn't want to go to the hospital because the user, the tenant, will fire her, and the next day she'll be fired from the employment agency. The purpose of this institution of employee lending was to do so — the worker is one year old, he must no longer be at the agency. During this time, it can replace three, four companies, i.e. users, and in the meantime there is an interval of 14 days, months, two when this user is not there. At that time, the agency was supposed to pay him off. I know from purely informal sources that there is no such thing. Even in cases where more than 100 workers are involved, not one receives compensation. That's what they say. This labor lending institute was basically born. Now say it's not the Ministry's interference. I don't know, look, even one chapter is meant for that. Chapter 10 of the Labour Relations Act refers to specific contracts, second indent, contracts of employment between workers and employers providing work to another user, from Article 57 to Article 62 – rights and duties are specified precisely. Concession contract – exactly what it can do. You get a lot of paperwork from agencies, but you don't have that information. It's not about payouts, it's not about that, it's about whether this institute is even being used. What happens to the employee who breaks up with the user, with the tenant, what happens the next day? By the way, the law is impeccable. Article 58 reads: "A break with the user does not mean a break in the Agency's working relationship." How long? I heard he was being speculated at an agency for one day — not that day, he was fired the next day. I also have the amended law myself, and I'm going to propose, so the supplement would require why the Ministry here has no interference, I think it has to, and I should get that information. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Does he want a full answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In fact, you have already found, Commissioner, that there is a lack of legislation here that does not provide adequate grounds for an inspection of the work in this case to take appropriate action in favour of agency workers. That is why I have stated, and once again I repeat, that some solutions have been prepared to better define these relations in the revisions of the Labour Relations Act and that if further proposals come forward, we will be happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you. Look, I'll suggest we have a general debate. It's one interesting area, a gray fox, an invisible field, I'd say, this negative flexibility. In practice, a system of rapid forgiveness has been put in place, while the agency also forgives the employee when the employee is fired. That's what happens in practice. It's interesting that you don't have this information, and I might be able to get you more. As it is said, a change of law is already in place. Look, just a few articles. Only one subparagraph is to be added here in Article 60. For example, to write, but the agency is obliged to have one month after the interruption, it has to set one deadline, it cannot have one half year, but it is probably too little for one day. I will suggest that at this point, which is very hot, perhaps invisible, we will have a thorough discussion, we will also come up with concrete suggestions on what can be changed, not just practices, but first and foremost the law needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Do you mind, Mr Magajna, suggesting a discussion of the National Assembly? Okay. Your proposal for the National Assembly to discuss the Minister's response will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So this question should be raised by two ministers, even the Minister for the Economy, but we know what problems we have now with this ministry, so that you are now Mr. Minister, the Chief Engineer of this issue. The economic investment activity in Slovenia has practically dried up. These are facts – I am speaking only about 2011 when Europe has somehow gone through this crisis and our most important trading partners, for example, Germany has almost 2% economic growth; Poland has never had a crisis at this time, has passed this period elegantly. As for us, this investment activity, which has driven economic development, is drying up. For what? We have a credit crunch, not to mention what happens to the biggest Slovenian bank when the state recapitalises it, it's called throwing money into a bottomless pit. Foreign investors have been avoiding us for a long time. We've lost the good voice we've created. And now, essentially, last month we passed a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act. With this law, of course, we have made it impossible not to say that we have deterred, including natural persons, from investing. This means that the law we have adopted as a protection for agricultural land also has consequences for economic activities. At the same time, we are not aware of the meaning of cultivation or at least we do not understand it in terms of economic activity. I would say: to start with this law we may protect a few square metres of land, there will probably be no problems here, but we will lose any economic activity, or if you want to, according to your own words: we will lose our jobs, we will have unemployment, there will be no new investments. It is said that there will be more unemployed, the state will not receive over taxes into all the cash that it has, money, it is said, will start to run out of money in these cash registers as well. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that, as I will then mention the case in the additional question, the neighbouring Hungary offers land for investment, especially for large investments, not for the sake of money, but for free. External investors are going to Hungary anyway, and now our entrepreneurs are going abroad. Mr. Minister, my question: Or was it possible that you were not with elephants in a china shop during this marriage? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of the Jews, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u166	Dear Member, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! This is an important issue that we are constantly aware of. However, this is actually a law that also directs investment through financial leverage where it is not harmful for Slovenian actual food production. If we look at what ratings or what costs might arise for an investor. If investments are directed to where we have an interest, that is where our space has become plentiful and we do not want it as such, of course there is simply no financial compensation. If we direct investment and construction to where we have the worst rating, that is from one to twenty points, these lands are very much in Slovenia, the financial compensation per square meter from 0.05 euros to 1 euros. And you, Mr Member, know that essentially transactions with these lands are sometimes made from 250 euros per square metre. So, the essence of this law is that investments are actually directed to where we have a largely less quality space for agricultural production, or even to interfere with the forest that we now have under Slovenian regulations, almost 60%, and even 63%, according to Europeans, which are slightly milder. I believe that in this way we will succeed in this law and that this will not be an investment burden. True, we are probably all aware of this, and we are also aware of this in budgetary and spatial plans, that we lack some spatial development in the country. This is because small congregations without a region simply have purely legitimate interests that in each small congregation we have a craftsmanship zone, which is often completely untapped, we have available candelabras and roads there and no factories anywhere. And these lands are very large in Slovenia, and this shows the wrong view of the protection of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u167	Mr Petan wishes to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Look, Mr. Minister, in the debate on the adoption of this agricultural land law in the SDS and in the opposition, we have pointed out the harmfulness and the side effects. But now we are in a situation, and I have one such case where not only one but more entrepreneurs have turned to me because they were in administrative units, everyone has a copy of this law and that I will not read everything to you – you know what it says. For example, compensation for the change of destination according to the rating of the class from one to twenty and a maximum of 76 to 100 times that of the euro. I have a case where someone wants to invest some ten million euros in an industrial zone that has been defined as an industrial zone for thirty years. For 30 years, it had not grown as different as grass because it had been defined. But he still has a high credit rating. And this entrepreneur who wants to, I don't know, two hectares, only has to pay 300 000 euros and 100 kilometers away in Hungary for a change of destination, and he gets free. That's what they say. There's no god to invest here. That's what I'd like to say. Even domestic investors, because of such calculations, some have even worse calculations, I'm only talking about industrial zones that are already reserved and we're not talking about land that we're about to acquire. But you have to pay when you want a building permit, then you make that change of destination. Investors already have little money, and then – I don't know – I gave you an example here for two hectares, it's not a big deal or a big industrial thing. 300 thousand euros – just like that! There's not a company that can do that. And look, that's what I'd like to do before it's over; they want investment on roads, and they can grow hills. I don't mean the highest hills, but the investment for the industry won't be anywhere. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. Mr Dejan Jidan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you. Of course, roads don't just go to the best agricultural land, I know that, because every day I drive where you probably drive, too, Mr Member. In general, I would like to point out that this law directs construction to a place where ratings are low, since this is essentially the basis of this law. It is true that we also wondered in the National Assembly whether it was appropriate to pay the refund when a change of destination was made, or when a building permit was issued. We even had at the first stage in the draft law that when the change of destination was made, but the majority opinion was professional, especially the great interest of the congregations, which we then took into account in the law when the building permit was obtained. That's what I'm trying to say. Since the law is new, there are many operational issues. Some mistakes also occur in life itself. That is why we have doubled the team involved; we have doubled the total number of people within one year by 3% in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you for saying that again. I propose that this issue be discussed. At that time, I hope – given that there was no minister today, because that is the situation, I did not even ask the question because I did not know if it would be possible for at least two ministers to be present during that debate; it is the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economy, or who will perform this function. And that's for the reason I already mentioned it. In fact, nothing helps if we protect a few acres, hectares, maybe even square meters of agricultural land, and on the other hand, we will completely destroy the investment activity, saying, destroy it. We know that without economic start investments, we will not all be able to be at the employment institution. Who's going to create the money we can use to finance ourselves through the employment agency? Since all of Europe has found some compromise solution between land protection and economic development, we cannot say and no one can convince me that everyone else is stupid, we were the only ones who were smart. So it is necessary to hold a debate, to pass on the experience that I mean in this sense, to pass on the experience from the field. [[...]] I am not the only Member I have received such a question. I know that such questions and calls also appear to state councillors if they are to demand veto. The matter has passed, but entrepreneurs don't know when the veto can be filed. There's more than that. I said one case, but there's more. That is why I have highlighted this and I want this to be discussed and the feedback we receive on the ground from entrepreneurs. In this context, I think this debate would be a good one. I therefore propose, Mr President, that the debate be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, your suggestion to be the answer to the Magi. Dejana Židana will hold a debate, we will put to the vote tomorrow in the framework of the vote. You know, and I finally said that the Minister of Economy's response here could not yet be included. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister for Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Mr Minister, I have already given you a written question, and I would like to repeat it by saying that there are protests and information from various addresses that the new Land Book Act has made the situation worse by bringing confusion and inefficiency to this area, and in particular the timely resolution of the book's proposals. According to some information, land registers do not take place, the status of the application or the stage in which the application is located cannot be verified and so on. I want to know: Are you familiar with these problems? What do you think is causing these problems? What will you do to ensure that registration procedures are at least as effective as before the adoption of the Law? I would expect – and you have also ensured this when adopting the amendment of the law – especially more up-to-date, transparency and punctuality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. President! This issue regarding the operation of the land book is, of course, very important, as was the important decision taken by this national assembly to move to an electronic land book. I would like to remind you that this decision was taken at the time of the previous government, but it was then found that it would take some time for the system to be prepared in order to be able to function optimally and that the start of the transition to this electronic land book system has been delayed since 1 May of this year. So much for how it was decided to go to an electronic land book. The main objective is to ensure a rapid resolution of land-book proposals in the land book, much faster than in the past, as well as to address certain errors and shortcomings that the old system has generated in some way. I think both goals have been achieved. However, I would like to point out that the transition to this new system and, of course, the adoption of the Land Book Act or its novel took place only after the Supreme Court informed the Ministry of Justice that the application supporting the electronic land book was prepared. So the computer program is fully ready. Only then did the transition to a new system take place on the basis of an adopted amendment to the law. While the Ministry has received some comments and complaints, in fact we record only four supervisory complaints from citizens and citizens regarding the new land book system. We've processed everything through the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the Courts. However, the Supreme Court is only the institution of the entire system, which is concerned about the functioning of this system, has also opened a specific website intended solely for the handling of complaints or for the elimination of certain errors, or has explained to the applicants the entry into the Land Book. The system has therefore responded very favourably to users here. Moreover, the Ministry of Justice has published on its website a specific guidance for system users on what are the typical steps that must be taken, who must be addressed, what needs to be done to enable this system to be used. This notice is very simple and understandable to everyone. At the Ministry of Justice, we have also drawn attention to the first practical experience of users, including with regard to the application of the system by notaries, who are the main proponents of electronic land registrations, after the notification we received from the Supreme Court, and, inter alia, to the duty of uniform practice in this part. The Notary Chamber also responded in this regard, so that these first certain issues were addressed quickly by the competent, in particular the Supreme Court. Of course, this is a major change, and it is logical that there was some misunderstanding at the outset, both in the users themselves and in some courts, so the role of the Supreme Court was so much more important here. The Supreme Court also organised special training, engaged its IT centre to respond in due time to technical issues and challenges that were needed here. In short, if we look back, the system works for two months, what the results are now. I must say, it's surprising. Look, in just two months, this electronic land book system has looked into, so through its computers, a million 200 thousand beneficiaries. I warn you, these views are free. After the previous system, they were paid. It's an extremely high apparent utility of this system. Also, the second month after the application of the electronic land book, the Supreme Court reports on a substantial number of land-book decisions issued, such as the average. In short, these first, after only two months, the data collected show that the assessments were correct and that this system will certainly work effectively and that it will ensure: for the first time transparency, for the second time greater speed, but, of course, also legal security for everyone. In recent years, the ministry has also published a special rule on the land book, which opens up some new possibilities for citizens and citizens, perhaps I can say more about this further if you want to complement my response.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'll use this supplement. I also take this into account that, with regard to views and so on, this communication is faster, but I will only give two cases, two of them, in which they have turned to me with question and despair, if I say so. One is investors, so I have contacted people who ensure that foreign investors are desperate about investing in Slovenia, about investments in Slovenia, mainly due to unclear and unpredictable deadlines. That's what I was told. And in this case, it has also been used through my intervention or advice from your people at the Ministry, established or used this option to oversee the ministry. And another case. The State publishes various calls for various measures in the field of the economy, in the field of agriculture, in particular in the field of agricultural policy measures, where, in previous years, the condition of the land book proposal has been established. This year, the condition is the land register entry. At this point, no one will answer or explain the stage in which the procedure is, where the procedure is, and when it will be completed. Therefore, an individual who submits certain cases on the basis of tenders may come, in fact, with the possibility of losing any funds or assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u180	When it comes to the issue of response times to the issue of landscaping decisions, I must say that everyone is protected by sealing accompanying the land-book proposal. This protects his legal position. If there was any specific case of a delay that would be unjustifiable, and you had to separate something – since the electronic system of the land book applies, the computer is the one that distributes the land book proposals across all Slovenian courts and makes sure that all courts are evenly burdened. So this is where the new system can't generate delays. However, there are still some outstanding issues from the past and they may present a problem, particularly in the work involved in the registration of an item of property. You know that even in Slovenia there is still a problem, and that is why the National Assembly will deal with this Wednesday – and I hope that it will also adopt – a new law on the registration of the floor property, which eliminates a good part of these problems, from parallel procedures in the land book and the cadastra. In short, there may be different issues here; one is the question of partitioning, the other is the issue of first-level ownership and the third is whether the old proposals have not yet been decided whether they are already proposals after the new ones being addressed in electronic form and in the manner I have explained. The Ministry will, and I guarantee this, certainly continue to be closely monitored within the framework of those powers that we have, and in particular in cooperation with the Supreme Court, which is the main institution for the functioning of the system, in order to ensure the full functioning of this system, as it was intended and as decided by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members, Minister, Ministers, Honourable Minister Dr. Svetlik! For many years, both under this government and under previous governments, there have been abuses of employees in the field of labour relations, such as non-payment of wages and contributions. State institutions such as Durs are still involved in the non-payment of contributions, which can approve the deferrals of contributions, as provided for by the rules, without the knowledge of the affected employees at all. The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia should play a significant role in preventing these injuries, but despite reports received concerning unpaid contributions and salaries, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia often felt that he was not competent to act, which he also excused by not receiving data from Durs, pleaded that there was no point in filing complaints, because there were too many criminal offences and the prosecution that the prosecution rejected and the courts did not try cases. He warned and gave no initiative to amend the laws that would remedy these problems, although he should have done so. When the injured workers began addressing me, I turned to you, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Economy, the Minister of Finance and the Government with many questions and initiatives to solve the problems in favour of the injured employees and to prevent the new damage to the employees. You've been giving yourself the problem of the ministers as a hot bone. The Interdepartmental Commission was also set up to resolve these issues. As I have not yet seen a public presentation of legal changes to address the problem of infringements of these labour rights, I am interested in: What measures have been taken, for the first time, to compensate injured employees who have lost their salaries and paid their social contributions in the past; secondly, that the damages resulting from unpaid salaries and contributions to the future would no longer take place; thirdly, that the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia would become effective and for the benefit of employees in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Ivan Svetlik will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll go straight to answer your questions. As you have already determined, it is a matter of broader nature. Now that the victims will come to what is theirs, I have already replied in my previous reply that, when it comes to wages, this must be applied directly to the competent working court. There are no other ways to get to what they are entitled to, and so the law provides. We are aware that there are shortcomings in the system here, and that is also the answer to your questions. The second question – that is why, unfortunately not confirmed in the pension law, we also proposed to prohibit the postponement of the payment of contributions. And we are now working on this if we are to have this opportunity to introduce certain corrections to this system through the Labour Relations Act. As far as punishing those who have committed these acts is concerned, criminal and indemnity is involved. When it comes to criminal liability, this must be demonstrated in criminal proceedings on the basis of criminal complaints. And the Labour Inspectorate gives criminal charges, of course, but he's not the only one who can press charges in this regard. After the indictment has been given, it is a matter of the police, the prosecution, the judiciary to bring it to an end. When it comes to indemnity, as stated, this is a matter of competent labour courts where these issues need to be resolved, when it comes to offences committed by employers and where the inspectorate has jurisdiction and also those offences are dealt with and fined accordingly. The question that's last in this row is how do we increase efficiency? Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. Let me give you just one piece of information that was published publicly in the Dnevnik newspaper, which says that in 2010 the Inspectorate carried out 215 checks on one inspector and issued 135 measures compared to Inspector Durs, who carried out 23 checks on one inspector and issued 13 measures. There may be a significant different problem here, but this shows the large-scale functioning of inspectors who carried out a total of 18 thousand 259 checks and issued 10 thousand 271 measures, with the number of inspectors around 80. Let me also say that the number of criminal complaints filed in the past year and also the fines imposed for offences has increased significantly, so that the sum of fine-based funds has also increased by 24 %. Of course, the effectiveness of the inspectorate's operation is linked to various factors, one of which is already mentioned, is that it is a contract of work for contractual relations and that it is here that the inspector can make a criminal complaint, and even though the employer is then punished, this does not mean that the worker will be paid back what he owes him, it must be enforced through the working court. For example, one of the companies mentioned many times last year, Vegrad, 34 inspections were carried out in this company last year, 80 payment orders were issued and 9 infringement decisions were taken, 5 criminal charges were also filed and 21 inspections were carried out. Only in this company! Of course, there are many other companies where there was also a need to oversee this area. So I can say that the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is working very hard, but it is true that the law does not give him all those powers that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u186	I'd like to ask you to complete the answer. In fact, I believe that the effectiveness of work is not measured by the number of controls or by the means of small fines – after the many small fines that inspectors charge for such offences – but there are no significant changes that should also be introduced by amending the law. I got a letter yesterday, two pages, gentlemen of the Chief Inspector's Department, mag. Boris Ružič, who lets me know that we're still kind of in the middle of something. Let me read what it says to you: "You probably don't know anarchy about the establishment of such and other companies that can cheat and cheat in every way possible and impossible ways, but nothing happens to anyone or at least nothing has happened so far..." Then, "you might know what IRSD can do in such cases? Despite the considerable powers in such cases for the affected employee, virtually nothing." Then he turns to the problems of the Ministry of Justice, Prosecutors and says, "Maybe because of the scale of this problem they have also given up." What about the courts? And then he complains about getting hundreds of unpaid contributions from Durs. The former Chief Inspector complained that he did not receive this information and that he was unable to do anything about it. In short, I'm afraid things haven't moved significantly. For this reason, I would suggest that ministers use the time until the end of the government's mandate to agree on those legislative changes that would at least prevent the abuse of employees that are obviously still taking place in a mass way today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. You have again found that this is a complex issue. The establishment of companies is not in the control of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, nor is it in the proceedings of prosecution or in judicial proceedings. However, I said that we have taken a step towards changes in the unconfirmed pension law, that we are preparing the same thing as regards the labour law, that we have tried to increase small fines in another law, which has not been confirmed – when it comes to offences that are also in this area. That is why it remains for us to try to further address this issue wherever possible, particularly in the Labour Relations Act. Also in preparation is the law on the inspection of work, which we can do something about in our field in this regard. However, it is likely that what remains important for the conclusion of working relationships, namely the contractual relationship between the employer and the employee, and that working courts are responsible for resolving the issues raised by this title. I'm sure this arrangement won't change for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the question of the Minister of Transport Dr. Vlačič and the Minister of Defence Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! I'm going to ask you a question that I hoped would never have to ask. Why? I believed in the functioning of the country, in fulfilling the State's obligation, and that what happened now happened to professional firefighters on a highway base in Vransk. So, what's this all about? These are professional firefighters, highly qualified professionals who are constantly in readiness and on duty in this highway base in a man of unworthy conditions. Three firefighters are 24 hours in a space 3 times 5 square meters. Why are they on duty there? So we can drive safely through the tunnels. But it's not just a problem in Vransk, it's a general problem for all professional fire brigades that operate in this way. In December 2007, a contract was signed between the Ministry of Transport, Dars, the Department of Protection and Rescue, Helios, the Military Fire Task Force Celje on the performance of operational fire tasks in the tunnels of Ločica, Jasovnik, Trojane and Podmilj. Article 7 of this Treaty states that Dars will provide conditions for the performance of tasks, including suitable space within three years of the conclusion of the contract. In December 2010, three years had passed, and a letter addressed to Darsa’s director, Matejo Duhovnik — that is, these professional units participating there — asked her when the terms of this contract would also be ensured. The Director replied to the letter and ensured that the terms of the contract would be provided within six months. The answer was accepted by all of these signatories to the basic contract. The month of June 2011, i.e. last month, has passed the promised six months, and nothing has happened yet, and I'm afraid it won't be for a while. The firefighters, however, faithfully and responsibly carry out their tasks and obligations under the contract under impossible conditions on these few square metres. There's something else about interventions. How many interventions are actually being carried out? 26 interventions in 2008, 52 interventions in 2009, 30 interventions in 2010, 24 interventions by July 2011. Here we really need to stress that the fire brigades are 20. 1. 2010 successfully mediated in a high-risk accident where fatalities and material damage to large scales were prevented solely because we have, on the basis of this contract, a fire base or unit at the base in Vransk. Therefore, we can peacefully conclude that the funds invested in the implementation of these operational on-calls are more than justifiably invested. I'm asking you: When will something be done in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Who will be the first to answer, Minister or Minister? Mr. Patrick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you, Chairman. I have one relatively short piece of information. I'd be glad if the thing was already in progress. This is what this information says: that the project is ready to take place on the basis of a floor area of 200 square metres, that this project, in cooperation with the fire department, is ready, so that the representatives of firefighters who will use these spaces will cooperate, and is coordinated with them, that at this point the tender procedure is to select the contractor at the final stage, that there are some reports of potential operators and if the procedure is such that there will be no complaints, then the construction contractor can be quickly selected and the financial means for building the proceeds are in the Dars business plan. This is my information for the moment, as far as the construction itself is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to complement my colleague Dr. Vlačič's answer, at the point where the question arises as to what is the role of the Ministry of Defence and the Directorate for Protection and Resolution in overseeing the implementation of this Treaty. Let me say that all four parties to the contract meet several times and that the meeting on this subject was last held on 2 June 2011. At this meeting there were also speeches on the possibilities for the implementation of Article 7 of the Treaty of December 2007. It is true what you said, and I think we are all obliged to point out that it is two professional fire brigades, a professional fire brigade from Celje and the Domžal Fire Safety Centre, who have both been doing important work and have also done some key interventions over the past three years, which have certainly ensured a greater number of lives in these tunnels. At the same time, however, it must be said that very many different things were envisaged in this agreement or contract and that Dars and the Department of Protection and Rescue have also implemented them. For example, Dars purchased appropriate fire rescue vehicles for the tunnel, and there were six such vehicles. Dars provided jobs for additional professional firefighters for Celje and Domžale. Dars every year provides financial resources for the salaries of professional firefighters every month, and thus, in essence, he also ensures that both fire brigades spend these difficult times in which the whole public sector is today. The Ministry of Defence, through the Department of Protection and Rescue, is concerned that these firefighters are properly trained or trained and has already conducted a number of different trainings for them over the past three years. We're just in a situation where we're buying insulating respiratory appliances for harder working conditions, six for Domžale, six for Celje. Similarly, in 2008 the Ministry of Defence had already purchased the special protective equipment needed by those firefighters to carry out their work. So we have to say that the contract is in a large part of such a nature that it can be said that it has been successfully implemented. It is true, however, that we are still waiting for this part concerning the working conditions of firefighters, where it was agreed that they should be provided with conditions such as those in the firehouses. The truth is that the garage house where they are now in Vransk does not allow this on those 12 square meters. But it is true that these are rooms that are heated to have access to sanitation, but we all want these professionals to work under significantly better working conditions, at least when they are waiting from one intervention to another. I hope that, on the basis of what Dars reports, there will be an arrangement of a larger complex in which there will also be a suitable workplace for these firefighters, because it is right that we have professionals doing hard work properly provided, as far as we are concerned, we will say, these last points in the contract that must be implemented, of course, while all the other points relating to paying the costs of these firefighters and their training will still be at the burden of Darsa and the Department of Protection and Rescue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u195	Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u196	The answer was expected. There really were a lot of points in this contract, but I think they are essential conditions for work, for sure. I think that if the state does not adhere to the signed obligations of certain responsibilities, then it is difficult for us to expect citizens to stick to them. I think, given that these are truly highly qualified people, firefighters, that the conditions in which they work and stay are, in fact, a great shame, a great shame, no matter how many articles of this Treaty have been realized. These guys who work under these conditions sent me pictures of what conditions they're working under, and then I'll show them to you, so I guess you've never seen it before. It's a room 5 times 3 meters, chairs Chinese performance, 50 euros a chair, all broken, one cook, minimal. They can't even make coffee or tea. Not to say they've shut down their water. There's no water in the Vransko Highway. A container in which they can rest because they're there 24 hours, in a container to understand each other, in 2011. To read you another sentence that one colleague wrote to me and sent me, "I am just a fireman, for politics is really no good, only when they need us, they brag about how they've arranged it, and then forget about it all." I am disappointed by this attitude towards firefighters, who have shown many times, even those professional firefighters who protect tunnels, actually protect us in tunnels, so that they can do their job in such a stepmother's way. I'd expect you to really press on Dars, so you won't hear off the record that the money's gone. I'll hold your tongue now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. One of the ministers wants to complete the answer. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u198	First of all – Dars is not a state, Dars is a state-owned public stock company. So when you talk about the country, you have to be a little careful because it's not a contract concluded by the Ministry of Transport that I, say, run. I'm glad you warned me about that. I will also, in particular, warn Dars about this in the letter, and it is true that good living conditions must be taken care of so that these people who help, then other people, when they are in distress, can help them to have such conditions that they can do their work so much better, that is for sure. These things that you've pointed out have water problems and so forth, I'm going to write one special letter to the AUKN, which we're going to turn to in such a case. So if I had known that before, say, I didn't know that information. I have to tell you. What doesn't come to me anyway, but I don't know about it and I can't know everything in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I think Dars will try to meet the conditions of this treaty as he has done so many times before, and also to keep his word. It's hard to guarantee on their behalf. We will certainly also be concerned at the Ministry of Defence that we will repeatedly remind them of this part of the Treaty. And, of course, we also asked that firefighters be treated as a priority. In fact, as it appears from the plans, it is a larger complex that Dars wants to arrange, and one part of this complex, which is supposed to be at least 20 square meters, should be designed for firefighters. Dars wants to arrange a larger space and this larger space is supposed to have about 200 square metres, and the contract stated that firefighters should have at least 20 square metres of space to operate. I hope that this space will be more, given that in space as it is now and now, it is indeed 10 to 12 square meters. In such a small area, they are working hard, resting, or preparing for their interventions. So I understand your criticism, I accept it, but at the same time, I want us to remember that it has been done a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Stefan Tisel will ask the question of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Igor Luksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u202	Good bye to all of you! Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In June 1999, the Bologna Ministers responsible for Higher Education from 29 European countries, including Slovenia, signed the so-called Bologna Declaration and set a common goal, taking full account of and respecting the diversity of national education systems and university autonomy by 2010, with mutual cooperation, to build an open and competitive European higher education space that will enable European students and graduates to move freely and work, while also attracting non-European students. The aim is to achieve a range of measures, such as the establishment of comparable and transparent higher education structures and levels, the mutual effort and recognition of relevant and comparable higher education qualifications, the establishment of mutually recognised credit systems and quality assurance systems, the promotion of student and higher education mobility, the development of the European dimension of education and the increased competitiveness of European higher education in the world. Of course, this Bologna High Education process is expected to implement the Lisbon Strategy to make Europe competitive and dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world, or the most competitive and capable of further growth by 2010. Of course, there was no economic crisis at the time and in Europe there was a largely shortage of personnel in the field of technology and science. Western Europe expected the influx of such personnel from Eastern Europe or other countries, and today, in addition to the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the employment crisis has changed considerably, so that these educational conditions are different today. At the end of May 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the amendment to the Higher Education Act, which led to the creation of the European Higher Education Area, the Bologna Process. The first Bologna graduates to enter the labour market received us in the 2009/2010 study year. I want to know: How have these goals of Bologna reform been successfully achieved in Slovenia? What have these first generations shown us or what advantages and disadvantages of this bologna system are we facing in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dr. Igor Luksic, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! For a full analysis, it will be necessary to wait a while longer, as the main faculty entered the Bologna reform only in the previous school year, so that 270 undergraduate studies were awarded in 2011/2012, of which 186 university degrees, 76 higher education levels and 8 single master studies, 199 were programmes II. Levels and 67 III. Levels. Three, four colleges went five, six years ago, these are the ones that the Member mentioned that they had already given the first graduates. But the crowd, they say 270 programs or, say, 220, they only have students at the end of their first year. Only 2020 will we be able to have a comprehensive assessment of the benefits of all these labour market programmes. What we can say immediately, with regard to the overall success of the Bologna reform in the EU as a whole, is that the objective has not been achieved. With this reform, the European Union has not been able to increase its competitiveness until 2010, in order to achieve what they have been aiming at, in particular, to obtain students from Asia, as well as from the Arab Council, and thus to compete or even beat the American University, this global goal has not been achieved. We in Slovenian, I can tell you this from our own experience, we have done this very 'delicately'. We have not done so in line with this great goal, it is said that Bologna reform is an opportunity for us to make of the Slovenian university space, including scientific and research, a story that has a vision in its head about this whole strategy. But I am sure that the university space after somehow finding out on the basis of the first experience what is going on, that is already going on in some cases in reform and that in the second part, in particular after the adoption of the law on higher education, which will not yet be done this mandate, but in any case, we are waiting for higher education to go more in this direction than we all want, is said that Slovenian higher education would be actually inviting, not only for the area, but also for the wider world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thanks for the answer. I'd like to add some more. You yourself have said that it has failed the most so far and that there is still a lot to be done. Both students and professors are dissatisfied. I have to say, parents too, because the children's studies have been extended to two years. Even for future generations, there is a need to do more or to unify things in this area, as the Bologna programmes have not yet been fully implemented, and a mixture of old and new programmes is being used. However, the study is not intended to achieve the desired objective, it is said that the study will also be reduced, in fact it has been extended. Thus, we also have poor comparability with our exes when they were in the seventh grade with a four-year study and now with a three-year sixth degree. These weaknesses continue to linger, although in some studies, as we hear, they improve. The study programmes are not compatible, not within the country, even from the same profession or even from the same university. Some also have a system of 3 + 2, others have a system of 4 + 1, and one has a system of 5 + 0, which is sort of European or follows a European regulated profession. The Bologna reform is also seen only in the light of the reduction. So this goal has not been achieved. It's an extension for now. I want to know: How will this reform enable students to achieve these goals, namely, greater employability, reduced studies and comparability with Europeans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u207	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you. One of the important issues on this path is quality enhancement or quality assurance. An Accreditation Council has been set up to ensure that the programmes are checked and that the teaching staff also does so and to ensure that this is done in a quality manner. What Bologna programs have brought and should be welcomed is more practice than, say, what I know more when it comes to teaching teachers – that they have one year of practice from the age of five. This is also true for others, for technical professions, of nature, says significantly more in practice. Then what's important is mobility, a higher level of mobility. Some colleges require students to be at least one semester abroad and, of course, colleges are qualified to host students from abroad. For this purpose, we do not give enough resources because it is expensive, more expensive than that all students are only at home, but it is essential to raise the quality. So this exchange, which is now running alone or mainly through Erasmus, is a glass, but it is still unsatisfactory. The working methods of universities are changing. Bologna has brought more active forms of work, so to speak, less lectures. It's also some sort of thing to say hello to. But there's one big weakness that I think should be phased out, and that's a splintering of programs. The fragmentation of programs in the name of selectivity, which has indeed increased, but has increased at the expense of having a series of small objects that students can choose. Generally, the subjects are too much within the programmes, and this should also be reduced. This will have to be discussed, but basic knowledge is somehow neglected. The institutional fence is set. We have from the autonomy of universities to the Accreditation Council established institutions, which are fundamental to the fact that within this process we are working towards, this process is said to raise the quality of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thanks for the answer. Since the subject is very broad and concerns students, professors and, of course, parents alike, I propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Your proposal to discuss the State Assembly's response to the Minister will be voted on tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Member of the Council a question to Justice Minister Aleš Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! The family code was entirely built on human rights, especially on children's rights and dignity, which, as we can see, is not being implemented in practice by those who judge and decide about justice, but remains only a letter on paper, which apparently also translates such stories, which, according to the public accompanying it, should not happen. In the public, there are certain related and friendly links between individual officials and related professions in the judiciary and other state bodies. In certain cases, when individuals abuse their influence and know-how to achieve their goals, we are also familiar with citizens from the media. However, the fact is that certain judges decide completely beyond legality, without ethics and morals, they make completely inhuman and completely absurd decisions. The contents of this question have been created on the basis of a request for the help of a completely desperate student who has turned to our parliamentary group. All of you probably know the case of a student from Murska Sobota, who was tried three times by the Murska Sobota court in 2008, forced her to lock up for one year in a psychiatric institution for no medical reason, just because she didn't want to live with her father. Why did a judge in the Murska Sobota court make such a violent and inhuman decision? Perhaps she took the initiative of her father, who is a judicial expert in the same court, who in any way wanted to ensure that the girl, despite her desire to live with her mother, would live with him. That the judges had decided solely for his benefit, the court’s expert also confirmed. With regard to the above-mentioned story, the father brought a private action against her brother, a third-year student of the university, for writing to journalists about the incident of forced removal of the sister into a psychiatric institution, the other judge issued a decision on his detention. It should be mentioned that the same judge dismissed the criminal complaint filed by the student against the father in connection with the abuse. But the story isn't over here yet. In connection with his father’s private complaint about the case on commercial television, another judge ordered the detention of a student’s mother, who suffered a stroke twice in custody. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice: How will he act in cases where it is found that judicial proceedings have been conducted unlawfully and illegally, because of the friendly and related links of the involved judges, lawyers, prosecutors, judicial experts and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u213	Mr. Minister Aleš Zalar, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I have to start my answers again and again with the same sentence, in fact, the Minister of Justice cannot and must not be involved in open court proceedings. This is not our jurisdiction. The Minister would go beyond the Constitution of a certain limit, which is prescribed for the executive branch. The question of the assessment of specific judicial decisions is the question of the application of legal remedies; these remedies may be used by the affected parties in judicial proceedings from the time of the complaint. There are plenty of these remedies. We have a three-degree judiciary, then the Constitutional Court, which, within the framework of the Institute of Constitutional Complaint, protects everyone with the Constitution of guaranteed human rights in our country. When it comes to specific cases and when specific infringements are alleged, even if they may indeed be committed by the court, this is not a matter for the Minister of Justice. On the other hand, I must stress this, first of all, when it comes to friendly, related or other links between the parties to judicial proceedings, whether judges, prosecutors, lawyers, experts, interpreters and other participants in judicial proceedings, first of all, this is a matter of their professional ethics, which, at the same time, is their legal duty to assess whether such a relationship could in any way give rise to the impression that it is a matter of bias. This is therefore their legal duty in the first place. In the second row, this is the possibility for all parties to apply in court proceedings. They may apply this with specific requirements, and they may also apply this within the context of the grounds of appeal. This is an explicit ground of appeal under our procedural legislation both in civil and criminal proceedings. However, of course, the Minister, with the authority of the holder of the executive power, cannot have any impact on the decisions of the courts in specific cases, not for these reasons, nor for any other reason. What the Ministry of Justice can do, however, is to give particular emphasis to the education programmes for judicial officials, given that education in the justice centre provides this education and that the centre operates within the Ministry of Justice. That is why we are also giving special emphasis to these ethical dimensions, which are crucial to the judiciary and to ensuring equality, of course, the legal security of all of us. So this is what I can say at the principle level when you mention these specific cases, of course I don't know them, so I can't say anything about them either. I don't know what the final epilogue was like, even in these cases. I was able to track one of your allegations that the judge would reject a criminal complaint, of course, that's not possible. The prosecution can only be dismissed by the prosecutor, the court can only rule on the indictments. In short, there was very little concrete data. However, if we had them, I probably shouldn't say what I think about such a particular matter, because, in fact, if I say so, I can't help solving the problem, but I can make it even more complicated. However, if a party, if any party is affected in any way by the exercise of its rights, which it thinks are going according to the old law, of course, it can also refer to the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and, of course, in such a case, we first get the appropriate explanations from the Presidents of the courts. However, if these are not sufficient or if we believe that there may also be some infringement of judicial or other duties of judicial officials, we may, of course, require certain types of supervision that are then carried out by the relevant judicial authorities. This option, of course, always exists, and if anyone turns to us in this regard, of course we will carefully consider this possibility and take advantage of it if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič, would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u216	In Slovenia, people are imprisoned because they warn through journalists about irregularities and illegality in the judiciary. So the mother and the brother of the student were illegally taken without committing a crime. Reporting journalists about the events and suffering of individuals in the country is freedom of speech and the press, which is no crime. From that account, we can conclude that judges and judges knowingly and knowingly violated laws, as evidenced by their decisions — a certain illegal detention for their brother and mother. The actions and actions of judges and judges are illegal, inadmissible and should be pursued under official duties in every democratic and legal state. That this can even happen, I find that we live in a country where something is very bad. There is no longer any doubt that corruption has disintegrated into all times of citizens' lives. The country no longer protects its citizens, but controls them, abuses them and destroys them. Mr Minister, we are before the adoption of the new penal code and the law on criminal procedure, which should improve the state of the trial, but as we see, the legislation currently in force does not allow the irregularities I have mentioned. It saves only the responsible conduct of judges who have a permanent mandate and does not have to be afraid that they will be in the office for irregularities. That's why I'm asking you: What should be done to ensure that such irregularities are no longer taking place in the future and that such irregularities do not occur at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u217	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u218	First of all, I can't agree with your thesis that this is an irregularity, because I just don't know all the circumstances of the case. In fact, it could only be found by the court that such irregularities were committed, either on a regular basis or by the Constitutional Court. In these cases, such claims must be translated into legal proceedings. They are possible and such claims are happening, and it turns out that some judicial decision was wrong. I would not, however, hope to argue that corruption is at stake and is a matter of general lawlessness. I think that you, honourable Member, don't even believe in this. On the other hand, it is not possible to exclude in certain cases, for example, the misapplication of existing law, which can be based on a different understanding, and therefore we have an institution of complaints and other remedies where such errors can be remedied. However, if, in a specific case, abuse, including abuse, such as judicial functions, occurs, we have institutes in our penal legislation, and in this part our criminal code does not change, nor does it, which you will soon decide in the National Assembly. Here we have the criminal offence of a biased criminal trial, here we have the crime of abuse of the official position. In these exceptional cases, of course, we can also use these institutes, but we know who is responsible. The prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences shall be the responsibility of the State Prosecutor’s Office and shall be the one who shall also assess the justification or non-justification of criminal charges in respect of these matters. Unfortunately, we need to find that in Slovenia we have had two cases in which the prosecution claims that it could have also been an abuse of a judicial function, one should have happened in a court of law, one should have happened in a prosecutor's office. Such cases are of value in all such cases, in particular justice must only be carried out very quickly and very harshly, as judges and prosecutors are reasonably expected to act and decide as the most responsible citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u219	Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, we have quite a number of organisations in the field of agriculture with public powers that perform public service for the country. Among the largest is certainly the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, and in this context among the more critical, not always by its fault and not always by its right, the public agricultural advisory service with more than 300 employees. The use of advisory services is an important market advantage for agricultural producers, a higher level of competence and expertise and better information on agricultural production increase the productivity and efficiency of agricultural holdings. In this way they contribute to their long-term survival. The Court of Auditors shall, in its audit report on Rural Development in the Republic of Slovenia during the period 1. 1. 2003-31. 12. 2008 found that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has over-focused public agricultural advisory services on the implementation of administrative and administrative work related to the drawing-up of EU funds and less on the implementation of tasks that could have an important impact on the achievement of better results in agricultural holdings. In my opinion, the Court of Auditors also correctly notes that the Ministry of Agriculture of Agricultural Affairs of the Agricultural Advisory Service should be more balanced in the distribution of economic, social and environmental functions and to a greater extent direct, evaluate and monitor the work of this service and establish an effective system for the transfer of knowledge from the scientific field to the operator of agricultural activities. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I am interested in: In what way do you intend to improve this cooperation between the public agricultural advisory service and the scientific research institutions operating in the field of agriculture and thus ensure a more effective transfer of knowledge? How do you intend to evaluate and monitor the work of the public agricultural advisory service in order to achieve better results and greater competitiveness of Slovenian farms, in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u221	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u222	Mr President, honourable Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! We agree at the Ministry of Agriculture with the findings of the Court of Auditors. These findings came exactly one year ago when I became Minister of this country for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I must say that we have taken them into account as much as possible in the preparation of the 2011 programme, which has already been adopted. Here it must be said that the programme has been delayed because the programme is also linked to the adoption of new five-year breeding plans, which were adopted at the end of last year. In general, it has asked us to have the Court of Auditors and recommended that in the programme itself we actually make it more clear to the agricultural advisory service, which the State finances to a large extent or to a very small extent is the payer, what we expect of it and, on the other hand, that we also know what we are ordering in practice. Both things have been revealed to us and, within this, that the agricultural advisory service is too busy with administration and less with what is essentially its task, this is agricultural advice. This has been taken into account this year. The programme is much more accurately written, followed in essence by our starting points also as regards the resolution We provide food for tomorrow. Allow me to read to you what is this year's cut of funds or tasks in the Agricultural Advisory Service. 56% of the tasks relate to the implementation of technological measures to increase the competitive capacity of farms, 9% of the funds we give to the advisory service as a country to benefit, then the farmer, from which it is intended to promote additional and additional income, and 20% of the implementation of agricultural policy measures, integration and rural integration, 5% and funding from other sources. A new control system is also being introduced which essentially allows for substantive control of the functioning of the advisory service. This material supervision must be managed in the first phase by the Office which has this competence, this is the Office of the Agricultural Forestry Chambers in Ljubljana, and we supervise their work in full. This year's additional objective was to successfully separate the financing of the agricultural advisory service from the second part of the agricultural forestry chamber, i.e. the non-governmental work to be financed by membership and the money must not be drained. We also have operational coordination for this purpose on Wednesday to establish a clearer link. In general, we are returning the agricultural advisory service to the territory where it belongs. And what is needed so far has not been sufficiently clear in practice, and the behaviour is that the agricultural advisory service must be sufficiently qualified to advise the farmer. It is not the task of colleges and scientific research institutions in Slovenia to provide operational assistance to a farmer, their task is to train trainers, this is an agricultural advisory service, which has more than 200 people, to teach a farmer to do the most good. A number of measures are under way here, one of which is, I must say, operational cooperation within the preparation of operational programmes. At the moment, on the basis of a resolution which you, Mr Member, have also supported in the National Assembly, let us ensure that all food is prepared for tomorrow by operational implementation programmes in sectors where each has its own task. And these programmes will enable us to stick to the tasks that are in it and also to monitor that there will then be some different situation in the field of food production in Slovenia, as it is at the moment. What is in fact possible is another novelty – we are also moving on to a system of personal records. In fact, when an agricultural advisor works on the ground with a farmer who advises him, he leaves a technological instruction. Although this may be a small step, it is revolutionary for us, as this step allows the farmer to have a clear record of what his advisor advises him and expects somewhere that if these technological measures are to be followed, his farm will be competitive. On the other hand, we also have a material document that allows an agricultural consultant to change his job and his advice trail, and then someone who continues his work can do this work in good quality on a given farm. Thirdly, however, the country that finances everything provides control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u223	Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer, I am grateful for this information. As you said, a year ago, I asked you a similar question, namely, regarding the presence of agricultural advisers on the ground, or for a greater presence. And then you answered me that this would be better known when the strategy of Slovenian agriculture was adopted or later renamed the Resolution on the Strategic Directions of Slovenian Agriculture. You mentioned that a separate function of agricultural advice was envisaged, if I understood you correctly, on the administrative and administrative part concerning the use of European funds in particular and during the consultation on agricultural production. I want to know: When is this supposed to happen? Is this as I have just stated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u225	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u226	Mr. Ambassador. That is exactly what I said earlier in this year's funding, which is already in place. In fact, the program has been adopted. 56% of the money is intended for so-called farm advice, i.e. technological progress, improvement of competitiveness. The implementation of agricultural policy measures, which we often call administration, is intended for 20% of money and then time. However, I would like to propose, Mr Member, because this is actually a topic that we have also set out on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food in order to make it possible to actually compare the 2011 programme with the programmes of previous years, to actually see where progress is and also together to see whether the money that we are spending to a large extent – money is enough – or whether it is actually used as we think it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u227	Mr Zvonko Lah will ask a question from the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Dr Boštjan Žekš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u228	Dear President, Mr Minister, colleague and colleague! Mr Minister, you have been the fourth minister in two years to ask him a similar question, and so far I have not received the right answer, and I do not expect it today because you are the Minister with the shortest mandate and at least in this matter. But it's probably going to help make something go wrong from now on. Indeed, it is a matter of drawing European funds from operational programmes. In 2007, the previous government negotiated a substantial quota for European funds drawn on the basis of operational programmes. Last year, the current government sent an amendment to the operational programmes to Brussels. The European Community confirmed this in April of this year. It would touch on the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, which has six development priorities. I find this fourth most problematic, the developmental priority of municipal waste management, and the fifth, environmental protection, the water field. In fact, here are the projects that are the most extensive or also need the longest deadline of preparation. This is a communal infrastructure, and so far I have always wondered what is the state of readiness of these projects in terms of feasibility. We are in 2011, Mr Györkos has claimed his time if these projects do not begin to build physically in 2012, it will be too late and we will not draw on these funds. It is the management of municipal waste for €155.5 million and the management or protection of the environment in the areas of cleaning and decommissioning of municipal water, water supply and flood protection for almost €400 million. We have not yet received an answer, although the committee also raises the question: What stage of preparedness are these projects at? When will they begin to implement? What is the dynamics in the implementation of these projects, since we know that projects need to be completed by 2013 or that funds can be drawn up by 2015?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u229	Mr. Minister Jaksh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President.Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Members, Members! Mr Lah, I thank you for this question, because it is extremely topical and extremely important, if not otherwise, because, under this operational programme of environmental and transport infrastructure, Slovenia has a well-being of billions and a half, a poor billion and 600 million. This comes from the Cohesion Fund and to a lesser extent from the European Regional Development Fund. However, it is intended, as you yourself said, partly to the environment, larger facilities, cleaning facilities, sewerage, water systems, flood protection, sustainable use of energy and, on the other hand, greater transport facilities, railways, roads, waters, etc. Things are growing, especially slowly, because they are long-term projects. If we look first at the allocation of funds to users after each year. First year, 2007, only 15 million, second year 840 million, 2009 255 million and 2010 320 million. That's what they say. There's a growing interest. If we add all this together, we have so far spent, dedicated spending, about 800 million, which means we're somewhere in the middle, just over half. Before we get the money from Brussels back, of course, it lasts because the project has to be completed. That is, so far we've got back from Brussels, if I count this year, say, 250 million, a little more. This year we will also distribute an appropriate sum and mediate it to Brussels, so that I would not be a complete pessimist. Things are going on, of course, with big problems. One of the big problems is putting in space. It's hard for cleaners here not to talk about railways and stuff like that. The other thing is that we have the Public Procurement Act, where almost everyone complains. When the project is selected on the tender, all those who have lost, complained and appeal proceedings, the audit, which is scheduled to last for one month under the rules, may last for one year, for a period of two years. And the third reason for this slower pumping is the bankruptcy of construction companies. But nevertheless, given the plan we have, if we want to get the money back from Europe that we have given for 2011, we are already covered. That's what we're going to be producing now in the second half of the year, is profit if I call it that bad. This is said to be relatively fine, but it could be significantly better. All we have to do is organize ourselves differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u231	Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u232	What a coincidence. Both ministers working here as intermediate bodies are present, so I may be a little more specific. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, the problems have already been said, and the highway is also there because of the bankruptcy of construction companies, but there is still time to draw on it. The bigger problem is my investments. The pre-confirmed operation is still very early. For what project it takes at least two years for the project to be implemented, let alone the funds to be recovered. That's why it's not measurable. As far as these two priorities are concerned, I think the problem is the management of waste, where some projects were made five years ago. Probably because of the new European directives, old-fashioned projects may already be possible, but with new technologies, there could be a lot of overlap, especially by separating and collecting from door to door, as well as separating and cleaning municipal waters, agglomerations, I do not think are happy, sometimes socially unacceptable. The next question sent, if I have a chance in the fall, will be Minister Žarnić of this area because we have problems here. By means of a rebalancing, the municipalities are being taken directly under Article 23, which was intended for municipalities to co-finance these projects for their own shares and a new problem will arise again. I'm afraid we're going to get involved. As you yourself have said, from a billion 600, about 250 million spent. It's 15%, not yet, and everything else is to be pumped. This pumping, coverage, indiscretion, I don't think it's worth comparing. It is necessary to look at individual projects, feasibility and when funds will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u233	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u234	Yes, I agree with you that individual projects need to be looked at. I mean, with this drawing on long-term projects, of course, there is always a backlog. In the end, we'll get everything when it's done. But we are preparing or the SVR is now preparing some analysis by autumn, who is drawing, who is not drawing, then we will involve the European bodies involved in assessing whether the feasibility of one project running is likely or not, and then we will have to redistribute it. Within operational programmes, this can be proportionate, but there is little effort to be made. But if it's about whether we spend the money or not, I think it's better to spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u235	Mr Franz Puksic will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today's Dinner reads: "To Gruškov in the columns for at least four more summers." Slovenians and Slovenians, tourists and tourists who come to our country, God forbid, I hope this address is wrong and this will not be realized. Mr Minister, a year ago, my fellow Member, Janez Ribič, asked you a question about the highway Drazenci-Gruškovje. That's when you said that this section was in preparation for the Ministry of the Environment and for the preparation of the spatial state plan. And then you said, "When the regulation on this State Spatial Plan is adopted, it will be sufficient to continue the activity to obtain a building permit and buy land that this motorway is in the resolution itself, where no future and financial operational programme is foreseen." But then you said it wasn't an obstacle that we wouldn't do this program. "When the State Spatial Plan is adopted, it will begin on the basis of a resolution itself, such as land acquisition and building permit. For all of this is sufficient the present resolution." I quote that from your answer. You even called this highway the so-called little piece of the Phyrin Highway. I agree with you that this is really a small piece of the Phyrin Highway. The only one in Slovenia that has not yet been upgraded. You think it has to go on without any reservations. You don't see any trouble here. According to your assessment, the construction of the highway section will be in the expected hands and will not be threatened with anything. Now it's a tourist season and impenetrable columns. Such addresses are also seen on television every day. So, before the Croatian border. There's nothing actually going on at this department. I'm asking you: At what stage is the construction of this highway section today, one year after your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u237	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u238	First, let me say that such newspaper addresses do not concern me so much because this part of the highway is more transitory for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am more concerned about those natives who live along this state road and who are suffering from this increased transit traffic across the Republic of Slovenia. I am more concerned by those who come along this road than tourists in our country, because there are relatively fewer who will use this road, who will stop as tourists in our country. As a minister, I am more concerned with those who live along the existing state road. What I told you still holds everything. Today I have already answered this question to Ambassador Marinič, and I will actually repeat to you what I told him because he had a similar matter. The deadline at the section, which was designed before the time, has not changed until today. At the moment, activities are focused on the design and acquisition of building permits. In the following year, the purchases of needed land on the entire route will follow. This is a classic process when the state draws up a state spatial plan. This has also happened in our mandate, including with the participation of the municipalities, as many times as I have sat with them, that we have reached the final solution of the VAT. My assessment is that, as has been said several times, construction will start in 2013 and will end somewhere in 2015. It's important to know that planning here is what I usually don't want. In fact, the highway is being run over on some parts of the state road and since the state must provide both state roads and motorways, it will be necessary to design and build a state road at the same time, which is difficult. Therefore, it is not possible to do so overnight, nor is it possible to build a road overnight. Let me also say that the opening of the section of time — and nothing has changed since — when I spoke to you when we were on the ground was foreseen in 2015. It's not moving on this date, either. You're right, it's four longer seasons before this is open. We will try to ease what is happening to the inhabitants by some measures on this road. Something has already been done on the Directorate in this respect, but it is not the last motorway section, Member Pukšič, but it is not. The Gorenje Strak is ending this moment and should be completed by the end of the summer, there is also a fast road towards Koroška, which is just moving into the space, towards my places from which I am from, and this moment of planning and buying land, that is Lucija-Jagodje, is placed in the space of that part that goes either from Divaca or Postojna to Jelshan and the south part of the third development axis towards the White Landscape, while the central part does not provide for such a fast road as in these two. So far this is not the last highway section you mentioned. There's still quite a lot of them, quite a bit behind this department. Like I said before, things are on schedule. I suppose this should be done in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u239	Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you very much. That's not why I responded. Maybe you didn't understand me. I quoted what you said, "that little piece of Phyrinska highway is the only one in Slovenia not yet built up", and I also stressed "Phyrinska highways" so that we can understand and clear it up here. That's the first time. Another time. You say you're worried about the people who live on this state road, not the tourists and the transport that's coming. I am worried about both because transport and tourists who are coming, of course, the quality of life of people on this state road is nothing. Once the highway is built, of course, this will be different. You say the 2013 project starts. In view of the fact that you said that the contractor for the project documentation was selected, the purchase of land could also run parallel when the project is under way. We know how much, let's leave for those few square meters up or down, but to buy land, we also have to have money. Is this money provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the purchase of land? What can you guarantee, apart from saying that the project documentation is working to start construction in 2013? Indeed, the natives who live there are afraid of this and say that, given that they have no guarantee of starting to buy land, there is no great hope that this will be done at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u242	The project is underway, Mr. Puksic. The project begins when someone, this is usually the Ministry of Transport, after the National Assembly has adopted a resolution to take the initiative to the Ministry of Environment and Space, then is followed by placement in space. We are now in the stage where this is placed in the space. It is not said that the project will start in 2013. In this project, in this life of the project, when the VAT is adopted, this is the basis for the purchase of land and is the basis for the design, because you clearly cannot design it because you do not know where the route will take place. Buying land isn't just giving money to those who have land. This is a plot that is not a short-term procedure, you must know him as mayor. And then there's the valuations and there's the ransom. As far as budgetary resources are concerned, they must be provided by the State under the new law, which has been in force since December. In the rebalancing we will provide budgetary resources as much as it takes for the first half of the year, because the first contract will, in principle, be, we are talking, paying Dars for half a year to buy land. For next year, we'll have to find another way. I'm guessing we'll talk about this with Dars. But in this year's budget, money for the first half of the year and then for the next in the next budget will be provided because it has to be provided by law. But buying land isn't just, I repeat, paying land, but there are also plots, because it only buys what is needed. In fact, this project, which I am pleased to say as Minister, is relatively simpler because it is already placed in a space different from any other, and because it has a lot of traffic that we expect. And in this sense, from this economic point of view, it will be easier to build it than any other in Slovenia. That's right, I may have misunderstood you earlier. This is the last missing piece of the Phyrin Highway that Slovenia has not built on the whole of Pyrinka, and that is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u243	Ma'am mag. Sara Wheeler will ask the Minister of Finance a question, which is rightly absent today. You want to do it anyway? Would you like a written or oral answer? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Minister, the Ambassador and the Members! It is known that the Republic of Slovenia, during the period of monetary autonomy and the existence of the Bank of Slovenia, had in its plans to defend its own currency drafts for the immediate execution of the Slovenian Tolar reserve mission. However, this project, from the day the Republic of Slovenia entered the euro area, went into history. At that time, Slovenia's former investment bank became only a local bank for the implementation of the European Central Bank's wishes and needs or became a bank, as it was in the years prior to its independence. In moving into the new currency, the Bank of Slovenia has conscientiously and bureaucraticly ordered the complete destruction of all stocks of Slovenian tolar, as well as all emissions of paper and forged money from circulation. The paper money thus destroyed the days and days in cutting machines, and the coins sold cheerfully. But they were sold at nominal value, so the coin buyers made good money selling them for metal. And so we knowingly and conscientiously destroyed part of the half - past history that we also witnessed. Political euphoria at the time of taking over the euro and Mr Pahor's statements on the super euro are now showing great difficulties after good years that have clouded the foundations of the euro area. We are solving the financial problems of foreign countries, and our joy is collapsing, and at the same time its first minister has declared that this is great, because only by doing so will its new employers see how good the crisis manager is. At the same time, from the financial circles of Brussels and Frankfurt, it was puzzling that some countries of the European Union were already preparing for Plan B, where despite the promises of our experts Slovenia is not present. For there is a black scenario or burial of the euro to be left by its largest users. To this end, they are already preparing a reserve series of money to replace the euro exchange at the moment. The reserve emissions are already part of the economic reality abroad. I ask Mr Križanič, Minister of Finance: Does the Republic of Slovenia have a scenario in place when the euro area collapses? Do we have any more tolars saved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u245	Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The issue of the Maribor airport has been known for years. Aerodrome Maribor, d. o. o., has thus extended the contract eight times as an airport operator and the largest owner is still a state. The undeniable fact is that the airport is practically living, because traffic on it is very modest. They don't have any regular lines right now. Just here and there, some charter, years of business and stuff. That Maribor Airport is able to operate with higher installations, we have already had the opportunity to see when the airport took over almost all traffic at Ljubljana airport during the new runway. With the help of European funds, the country is now building a new passenger terminal, the contractor was the SCT, which ceased completely last October. The passenger section of the airport is now an open construction site, because in each rain the water literally flows through the roofs. The call for completion of works at the passenger terminal was unsuccessful for some formal reasons. A new invitation to tender shall be drawn up on the basis of available information. Even if this is successful, the works will not be finished before the end of 2012, so at a time when Maribor will be the European Capital of Culture, the airport will obviously give everything before the cultural appearance. However, it appears that the country has absolutely no longer long-term strategy of what I would like to do with the Maribor airport. The short-term extension of the leases only prolongs the agony of 25 employees, while the State as its owners is also causing additional non-negligible costs. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: What does the Transport Ministry intend to do with the Maribor airport after all the years of promise and interpretation? Are the plans on what will happen after the expiry of the current annex to the contract with the current airport operator?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u247	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you, Ambassador Fishich. I'm very pleased with your questions, because I've been dealing with these things for quite some time. Look, I was also the director of the Puerto Rican airport. It's very sad that we have an airport, such as a Puerto Rican airport, which makes a thousand hundred meters of track significantly more passengers than a Maribor airport does. That's a big problem for me. When I was the director of the Puerto Rican airport, it didn't occur to me whether the country would ask what it would do for me. However, the country has done a great deal for the Maribor airport. She made a path, in Portorož is not, now builds a virtually new passenger terminal which, I went to look at, complete, only the counter has to be respected, very beautiful, and as soon as the new contractor arrives, this passenger terminal will be completed and then will be in peace the old man can be restored and will be very highly respected for Maribor as the capital of culture. The invitation did not fall for some minor formal reasons, but because of the failure of those who applied. We are now preparing a new call, in the middle of a contract with our engineer, this is DDC, which has now been renamed DRI. We didn't go into a new call for an engineer because they became "and house", so we can order it directly. Negotiations are currently under way for the railway part, and we will also use the same model for the aircraft, so that they can withdraw this call for us. If the Ministry of Transport had not provided EUR 390 000 for this airport this year, it would have been closed by now. It would've been closed by now. We pay the economic public service as the Ministry of Transport to make the airport open at all. And look, because I was the director of the airport and because I know how the airport is doing, you can't expect the country to make you a business model. You can't expect the country to bring you the airline. You can't expect the state to do anything else to make your business a success. That depends on the operator, that's his job. Our job is to ensure conditions. And we did. Since the SCT broke off parts at the time and did not proceed in time, we terminated the contract, cashed out the guarantee so that we could also arrange things with subcontractors. And one more thing I have to say to you, once again in public, because there was a wrong impression in the public – and I believe that you said it very well – the Maribor airport was not ready to receive all these flights from Ljubljana, it was not! At that time, when this traffic was secured, we were very busy at the Ministry to tell you in particular, because they told us that we have fuel, a few days earlier we learned that they do not have fuel. And that was when our company Petrol proved very much because in a few days, it arranged for fuel to be at the airport because, of course, someone else did not want to do it. And the Maribor airport was absolutely not ready for the admission of passengers, had neither the procedures arranged as it should for such a number of aircraft, nor many other things. At that point, I have to admit, they've eaten up quite a lot of nerves, and I'll tell you that directly because I have a little bit of experience in this area. As far as tenders for the Maribor airport are concerned last year. They have been or have failed because the regulations in our country are such that the estimated value of the property you rent depends on what the rent will be. Since this was unsuccessful, we have decided to change the Aviation Act, which will allow this airport to pay in connection with the operation, according to the local authorities, that there may be even a few years of a moratorium on the payment of rent, because it is not the purpose of the state here to collect the rent, but is the aim of the state here to actually live up to the function of the infrastructure and thus, of course, all the multiple factors that such infrastructure for an area such as, say, that part of Slovenia can also perform. You can expect this legislation in the National Assembly at the end of the summer. Last year, when we made these calls, no one came forward for this money, but I had only recently two interviews of interested parties for this airport. When I told them what the purpose of the country was, my assessment was that they found it interesting to think about the way we thought. I want to, and I hope one of these operators bites into this airport and tries to get him to live. But I repeat, look, it's not a matter of the state that the airport lives. If we did this in Portorož, what the country has done so far in Maribor, it would be very good, but it is not. There it has already been done through private initiatives and I know it is difficult to get a line that needs to be pushed a lot, but this is actually an operator's duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u249	Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you, you've already calmed me down so much that maybe I still have a chance to keep talking. Of course, it depends on a lot of things, whether an airport is in one, I'd say it pays off to the environment or not. And if that is, I would say, an airport whose majority owner is a state, then it is also right that the state is also concerned in some way and that it does not just give funds into something that might not be worth it. You will probably agree that aviation is a specific sector in recent years, slightly in crisis. And in these conditions, the situation at Maribor airport is far from optimal. Uncertainty and the unregulated situation certainly do not invite external investors. Under such conditions, neither its market viability nor the increase in air traffic can be expected. The airport in Graz, for example, in neighbouring Austria is just an example of what a good strategy and an appropriate regional policy can do for the region itself, a state and a region and a local policy that has gained enormously from the launch of this airport, which is also used by many Slovenian passengers. I don't know why we can't do ours, Mariborese. It is worth condemning that the Government is always looking for and finding a way to support certain companies in the Central Slovenian region, including the national air carrier, and, on the other hand, to prevent and prevent the development of a similar economic entity outside the Central Slovenian region. The duality of the criteria is obvious. For all Member States and especially for the Podrav region, the development of the Maribor airport with new jobs is also of strategic importance as well as the resolution of a number of companies in difficulty. I therefore wonder whether it would not be appropriate to consider a longer-term contract or lease, for example, at least 30 years' concession, thus allowing the future airport operator to prepare a longer-term business plan and also to ensure an appropriate competitive advantage. Because if the state doesn't mean to take the matter seriously, then [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u252	In many ways, I agree with you, but not with one thing. Look, the state really gave a lot of money for this airport. For the region where I come from, she gave nothing, and she has an airport that has significantly more passengers than Maribor has. It built nothing, not a runway, not an airport terminal, nothing this country has done for this third international airport, which is in the region where I come from. I find it difficult to accept that she did not give much or that she did little for the Podrav region. But you have found out for yourself, the key airport such as Maribor is the region. It's the region that has a direct interest here. That's how it works in Graz. The saddest part of this story is that Maribor was like an airport once far ahead of Gradec. Then Gradec found a model, an operator in Graz, that is, the one who runs the airport, found a model and today collects passengers from the whole Podrav Region. You know what the saddest part is? It's not a matter of the Ministry of Transport. The saddest part is that charter flights of tourists coming to your region are coming to Graz. That's what makes me the Minister of Grief. So those who attract charter flights should make an effort to bring them to Maribor, because they would have a few kilometers to the city and take them to Graz. In Maribor, infrastructure is fully ready to accept charter flights. Let me put it this way. I'm absolutely in favour of a longer-term concession. I think it's wise, but with some operator who'll convince us with his program. Not us as the state of him, he's us. My proposal will be to give this infrastructure practically for a period of time, even without any rent, just because I see the multiplier effects of infrastructure. We do not need to now, because we have invested money in this infrastructure, so that the country gets money back. That logic, you're right, doesn't work in aviation. It doesn't work, not just because it's in crisis, because that's not how it works. I'm a great optimist. These plans I've heard about lately are good. Along with our amendment to the law, I think maybe there's a future for this airport right now. Once again, do not expect the state to make a business model for the airport. Don't expect the state to bring customers. Do not expect the state to give money, not more than what we are doing for economic public service. I repeat, if we did not now pay for the economic public service, this airport would be closed. It's open because we made sure he was still alive. But I'm much more critical of the management that worked there because he just didn't do his job.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u253	Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you. You mentioned Portorož Airport. In itself, it has already been given to go in these warm days to enjoy where tourism is a natural day. We have to fight for him at our cabin. We also fought to have our own region or to have regions in Slovenia. That didn't happen. Why, we know, wouldn't we? You also say that the biggest problem is the region itself, why the airport doesn't work, why it's not as good as the one in Graz. As the owner, I think it's not just infrastructure that needs to be invested in something that's worth investing in. Perhaps a move should be made in this area by you or the ministry. I propose that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, there may be a problem in the National Assembly in view of the problems that lie ahead for years and years, a strategy that someone would draw up and some final objectives would be discussed. And as Members, we would also contribute to bringing the airport to life at the end of Styria in northeastern Slovenia. Thank you for the answers, for your understanding of the problem. I'd like to ask you to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u255	On the proposal of Mr Janez Ribič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of transport, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 12 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. He will ask the Minister of Finance a question. The Minister's absent is justified. You want to do it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I expect an answer at one of the next meetings, an oral response. But the question is this. I am familiar with several examples of long-term procurement procedures. Certain cases of complaint resolution in the selection procedures of the contractor shall be drawn up after one year or more. The fact is, this situation puts investors in an impossible position. This is particularly important now that large works have taken place in the field of construction and almost no invitation to tender is found in Slovenia, which would be slightly greater so as not to hold back from the process of public procurement review. Unfortunately, the consequences of such calls and such a situation have also led to a tragic event at the post office in Slovenia. Mr Goran Klemenčič, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, also identified this issue and said that we have a very complex control system of public procurement, which is also ineffective. For this reason, I ask all the following questions: Are you planning at the Ministry to amend the Public Procurement Act in this work, since by substantially accelerating procedures we could make a significant contribution to the implementation of those investments that are still being provided with funds today? There are some of these, but something has to be moved here too, to at least do this, which can still be done and is now being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u257	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. He will put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space and to the Minister for Finance, who is absent. Still? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Tomorrow will be seven years from the devastating earthquake that has affected the Upper Suča, especially Bovec and Čezsoča. The earthquake also damaged buildings in neighbouring municipalities, Kobarid, Tolmin, Cerknem and Idrija. It was felt throughout the country and also in northern Italy, Austria, even in Vienna and Croatia. The basic data showed that in the earthquake on 12 July 2004 the same earthquake area was activated as it was years ago, and experts estimate that the earthquake was still an earthquake in the hot zone of the Easter earthquake in 1998, at the same time it is rare that three earthquakes with major material damage would occur in the same geographical area in the same poor 30 years, except in the most subterranean areas of the world. In 1998, we adopted a special law for the recovery of earthquake damage and for development assistance to the affected area. The fact is that the rehabilitation of the facilities after the 1998 Easter earthquake has already been completed, and therefore we rightly expect that this will also happen with the repair of the damage caused by the 2004 earthquake. We are at the time of preparation of the 2011 budget rebalancing. I don't think it would be wise to lower the 2004 earthquake budget line, as the people affected rightly expect recovery to be completed as soon as possible after seven years. The discontinuation of the implementation of the earthquake recovery programme due to the 2011 budget rebalancing would have many different consequences, especially for the victims. Time limits would be set for the use of own resources, the validity of certain building permits would fall, works would be interrupted before functionally completed wholes, even state technical offices, employed experts, archives and so on. Also, restarting the renovation would require additional costs and, of course, additional time. I ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Rok Žarnic, and Minister of Finance, Franz Križanič: How and when will the earthquake recovery be completed after the earthquake on 12 July 2004 in Posoča? I would like to ask Dr. Krizanič, Minister of Finance, for he is absent today to give me an oral answer at my first next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I think that what I'm going to say, what I'm prepared to do, will go away with the need for the Minister's response to finance, because I also have these numbers inside. On 12 July 2004, the assessment of the value of the necessary renewal at the end of the renovation was EUR 79 million. In view of the evaluation of the value of the programme, it is noted that, in the current dynamics of providing funds under unaltered conditions, the earthquake recovery in relation to the regulations and standards for the construction of such buildings will take place until 2016, with construction works completed in 2015 and administrative technical rules for the transfer and archiving of documentation in 2016. With an increase of €10 million at annual level in 2013 and 2014, which is also feasible in the technical field, taking into account the dynamics of the above-mentioned derogations from the earthquake recovery, it would be possible to complete the earthquake recovery programme by 2014 and to regulate administrative work in 2015, i.e. one year earlier. By 1 January 2011, 34.7 and several more million euros had been provided for the earthquake recovery. Under the 2011 programme, 7 million 100, under the 2012 programme, 7.5 million. The balance for this year will reduce the number for good millions of euros, but given the situation on the ground, the willingness of works, in practice, will not be known in field implementation. The expected necessary resources to be provided in the budget for the following years will need to be provided in 2013 for around 10 million, 2014 10 and 2015 2 million. There are also some tasks to be said for the next parliamentary call, that is to say, 22 million. 49.3 will somehow be assured of this. Some of the differences that will arise are also the fact that some have deviated from the earthquake’s restoration, that some things may have been overvalued. I think we're still ahead of the rebalancing. The balance that looked more tragic on this item about 10 days ago, and in the light of the discussions, we were able to agree with the Minister of Finance that after the rebalancing the funds will follow what is even possible in the field this year. If I say otherwise, some agitation, I think at least with regard to the heading of the earthquake recovery, honourable Members, you will be able to accept the balance peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u261	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Given the dynamics of the final earthquake recovery presented, of course, I would suggest that it should hurry, since 2006 with all these administrative matters, when the matter is to be completed, is only too long a period of – 12 years. I hope that it will be as you said in 2014 or maybe a few years earlier. My question to the Minister of Finance will, of course, be current, depending on what you have said, what budget or budget balance we will adopt in the National Assembly. I once again appeal that there is no point in lowering the 2004 earthquake item, because I believe that the state technical office, together with those potential damages, is capable of successfully implementing these projects with this item, which has already been foreseen in the 2011 basic budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u263	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u264	Thank you. Maybe I could make it up to you here. Even if that million were more, it would not be spent this year, because the dynamics of working in a field that is not entirely dependent on the construction sector, including others, do not follow what was in the original budget. So we were actually in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance looking for the amount that we will be able to consume this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u265	Mr. Bevk, I understand you want an oral response from the Minister of Finance? Yeah. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. He will put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Nice greetings to my colleague and colleagues. The Law on Development Support to the Pomurski region for the period 2010-2015 sets out in Article 11 the level of investment in infrastructure for the supply of drinking water to the Pomeranian region. It says that these investments are made from national and cohesion funds of the state budget of 98 million euros. The fact is that the joint supply project of Pomurje with drinking water is essential for the Pomur region. In recent years, municipalities have invested a lot of money in the production of project and investment documentation and in land purchases. There are also already advisory engineers running all procedures, including the preparation of an application for the allocation of funds from the Cohesion Fund. The estimated value of the investment is already known separately by ABC systems and so on. Among other things, there is still an open invitation to tender for the selection of a hydrological research operator, which has been dragging on for a very long time. The opening of bids is constantly moving, which means the delay in the implementation of the project. Supposedly, the main problem is that the Ministry of Environment and Space requires a new concept of drinking water supply. The proposed drinking water supply project was prepared in 2009. It took bureaucrats at the Ministry two years to find that they didn't fit, just before they had to apply for cohesion funds. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Why did it approach the amendment of that idea project? Why did your ministry take so long to find out that they didn't think it was appropriate? I also ask you: What activities are carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Space with a view to the successful implementation of the Pomeranian drinking water supply project? What measures are required from local communities to achieve this objective? I also want to know: What are the key deadlines and conditions for individual phases of the project to be reached by the State and the local community in order for the project to be successfully implemented?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u267	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I have here an accurate analysis of what was going on, and from this you will see that much of what was left behind is also in the congregations. The opening of offers for hydrogeological research, system C, was postponed for one month and one week. Why? The Ljutomer municipality presented a deadline for the submission of tenders due to a question raised by one of the tenderers, which highlighted the irregularity of the design of the future exploitation of water resources. While the municipality of Ljutomer opposed the offerer’s initiative, the ILO found a more cost-effective solution in it and therefore supported it. The one-month and one-week delay in the tendering process was a result of the coordination of different positions between municipalities, the ILO, the advisory engineer and the designer. The ILO considers that this delay is relatively small compared to the monthly delay in the preparation of this invitation to tender by the municipalities. We believe that this delay outweighs a more cost-effective solution that reduces investment and operating costs for several million euros. That the ILO's existing idea project is no longer in line and that they have approached the change of ideas projects is an unrealistic claim, which is not based on facts, but it is true that they will need to be updated in the next phase when the PGD and PZI documentation are prepared as envisaged. The Law on the Construction of Buildings, subject to regulations and changed circumstances, is the key to this. The municipalities of the ABC system and subordinated facilities and the ILO are 23rd. 3. 2010 signed the Annex No 1 to the Treaty on the Construction and Operation and Joint Management of the Regional Supply System of the People with Drinking Water of Pomurje, in which they decided to provide a partially different solution as designed in the 2009 projects. In these projects two water supply systems were designed and these two had the intended exchange of water quantities. By signing Annex 1, three separate, completely independent systems were defined. Our Ministry, in accordance with the regulation on the implementation of procedures for the use of European cohesion policy funds in our Republic during the 2007-2013 programming period, shall exercise the powers and tasks of Article 6, which relate in particular to the advisory and supervisory function. In addition, due to the importance of the project, operational management of the project also took over. All agreed activities to be carried out by the system itself and the ILO shall be conducted in detail at the monthly meetings of the operational coordination group for the implementation of the project. So far, 16 operational meetings have been held and 81 decisions have been adopted. We have also provided additional funds for the implementation of the project. The ILO does not require anything from municipalities, because it considers them a key partner of the project and reminds them of compliance with existing legislation and directs them at all stages of the preparation of the project in terms of effective and cost-effective management of public funds. The ILO expects local communities to cooperate more actively and meet the deadlines set. The key deadlines for the successful implementation of the project were set in Annex 1. Production of investment documentation – June 2012, production of project documentation of the building permit – August 2011, acquisition of the cohesion fund – March 2012, beginning of works – September 2012 and completion of works – March 2015. The municipalities did not feel able to take over the operational preparation of the project, so we hired an advisory engineer. With the signing of the contracts with him, new deadlines have been set for several months to move what was planned in advance. The municipalities are having a difficult time paring the project because they do not provide up-to-date information and this has led to months of delays. I think we understand the problems of the congregations, and we want to help them. In the short term, they will have an operational meeting where we will also clarify these matters in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u269	Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u270	Since I have been monitoring this project for five years and have been actively involved in it in the past, as well as now, I must say that these ping-pong balls are flying from the Ministry to the local community and vice versa. The last operational meeting that took place is an indication of how this project should not be conducted. Mr. Secretary, I've got some answers from you, but not entirely. My remarks in the question were also about the different deadlines for the implementation of parts of the project so that it would not now be listed, from the production of PGD and PZI, then hydrogeological research, the project budget itself, the concept of water resources, etc. You know, I also know the thing when it was said that water resources and transport water would be fully built by the state and that it would be the holder of the Ministry of Environment and Space. This has been agreed in the past. Nevertheless, I would like you to give me a more specific answer: When will any of these tasks be carried out?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u271	Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u272	As I have already stated, I can repeat the dates confirmed by the municipalities and by Annex 1 and which have not met those deadlines. And because they did not have the expertise themselves, and because they failed to prepare the foundation, they missed the matter. I think, but maybe now is not the time to talk about it, I think that the ILO has done much as it needs to be done, that there are also some delays at the ILO, but the burden of the work that must be passed on by the congregations, the congregations have obviously not been in favour of it and there will be something to be done here in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u273	Yes, Mr. Jursha, please. Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u274	Given the importance of the project and the Minister's incomplete response, I propose that his reply be discussed in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure and that we do so at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u275	On the proposal by Mr Franz Jurš to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Justice a question. I find that the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, is not. I have been informed that he is not responsible for answering your question. However, I propose that you ask the question of the Member of Parliament and that you agree on who will answer you at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I myself believe that Mr Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, is in a position to answer this question, even though he wrote to Dr Paul Gantar that he is better suited to answer this question by the President of the Government. The view that the Minister of Justice is responsible or responsible for this question is also based on the fact that he wrote to Mr Gantar that the question of political and legal responsibility regarding a member of the Government cannot be adequately answered. It's legislation concerning the Justice Minister, so I think she's the right person for it. But the question is as follows. Legal opinions of prominent lawyers, Dr. Pirnat and Dr. Ribičič appear in the public, regarding the conduct of Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, according to which, despite his legal education, the rule of law should be repeatedly overtaken in order to achieve his goal. According to the Journal, according to an evaluation of the legal profession, the Minister should, in an illegal and unconstitutional manner, change the quorum for collective bargaining, by which the majority of unions became the majority, and the retroactive validity of the annex by which the said minority agreed to the delay in payment of the other half of the wage imbalances. The Minister is expected in her conviction that the objective justifies the means, cancels collective agreements, then withdraws them and applies for annulment. I assume that a possible lawsuit by trade unions can lead to costs that will eventually be borne by taxpayers. I believe that ministers and the Government should not remain immune to the legal opinions of prominent lawyers regarding the conduct of a member of the Government, even formerly. That's why I want to know: How does the law regulate the responsibility of government members or officials in cases where they have caused harm by their actions? Has a member of the governments so far been responsible for past decisions by the Government? I don't think so. Do you believe that the compensation and criminal liability of officials should be increased? Have you already addressed the specific case in the Government, if so, what is the position of the Government? In short, I ask for an oral response at the first meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I would like to ask again, so I have been warned that it would be right to refer this question again to the Minister of Justice. Please. Finally, Mr Daniel Krivec has the last question he will address to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Igor Luksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you once again, Mr Vice-President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues are no longer, so that we are alone, we can also say something else about the earthquake. But the joke aside, it's an important question about broadband. This year we have witnessed many complications in the development of broadband optical connections in Slovenia, especially in the co-financing of these rural projects, where there is no commercial interest of operators and we co-finance projects with European and budgetary resources. Further developments and increases in the number of connections have also remained in urban environments. Access to broadband services is crucial for the further development of Slovenia, for competitiveness and for a level playing field for economic activity and life. A strategy for the development of broadband networks in Slovenia with clearly defined objectives was also adopted in 2008. I ask the Minister about the results of this last call to co-finance the construction of broadband connections, and in particular about the latest developments regarding the procedure which has also been launched in connection with this call. This is a complaint to those areas which have not been selected in this first invitation to tender, we are talking about the region of Koroška, Ribnik-Kočevski and Bela Krajni, Slovenian Gorica and the North Primorski region. According to the information, all these municipalities involved in these projects complained about the selection and at previous meetings or previous committees were also set up to re-examine, re-examine all incoming applications, and respond based on this re-examination. That's why I'm asking the minister: Is there anything new going on in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u279	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleague and colleague Member! It is interesting what the National Assembly looks like when the last question is raised, but still. First of all, I could only say very generally that the first call for GOŠO 1 was published in 2007, that there were 20 municipalities at the time, that there were allocations of EUR 60.8 million and that there were 15 000 921 households in the broadband network. The second public tender was published in July 2010, the amount of the resources awarded is EUR 37.1 million, and 14 applications were made to cover 73 municipalities. Five applications were selected, the municipality of Mokronog-Trebelno, the municipality of Sežana, the municipality of Pivka, the municipality of Mozirje, the municipality of Slovenske Konjice, and each of these municipalities has six, four then eleven and two other municipalities. The contracts with the selected municipalities were signed at the beginning of June, the projects have already begun, the construction of all these open broadband networks, which will allow 13 000 497 new open broadband connections, is 36 million and will be completed within 18 months, which is until the end of 2012. I would also like to say that the resources that were awarded were 37 million, the needs shown on the invitation to tender were 120 million and 37: 120. It is said that the tendering commission here must have had a difficult task of selecting the most appropriate ones among these applications. Now that you have spoken to me about complaints, my colleagues have written nothing here, but I will ask myself about it and then I can inform you at another sitting or on the phone or orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u281	Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u282	Thanks for the answer. I agree with you, you probably haven't been able to look at all this information on complaints yet, so I agree to get a written answer. It should be noted, however, that at this urgent meeting of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, we have in fact found that there have been some irregularities in the invitation to tender. Also, in the first invitation to tender, GOŠO 1 received funds, they were re-listed in the second invitation to tender, contrary to the areas I mentioned that they had been expelled. This was also pointed out by the Ministry at this meeting of the Committee, and the former Minister also agreed that these matters should be reconsidered and that any unacceptable choices have been made. It is true, though, that for more than two or three months the congregations have not responded to their complaints. It is important to know, however, that all local communities have placed in their NRPs, their budgets, and it would be correct for the Ministry to receive an answer to these complaints. I know that in cases where the Ministry is responding, there is a deadline that is not binding, but I think that three months is sufficient time for these complainants to have a concrete response and to know how to act in the future. There has also been an initiative at this extraordinary meeting to try to obtain additional funds within other ministries for the re-enlisting or allowing these areas to apply and to draw on funds, but I believe it is now when we talk about the rebalancing [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] ensure. So I'll wait for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u283	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u284	I'll check it out, you know, I took over this department 14 days ago, so I was here depending on this first piece of information. However, I will check this out and agree with the Member that two months, three months, is sufficient for the Ministry to respond, so I will check and inform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-11-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Government and all the ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 12 July 2011, when the National Assembly will also decide on the proposed decisions as part of the vote. I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
