ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members. We continue with the 27th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2009 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services, the debate on the proposal for opinions and conclusions. We are moving on to a debate on the draft positions and conclusions presented to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u2	Good day to all of you, to all of you. I cannot believe that the Chamber is so empty at this point in the consideration of the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services. The reason why the hall is so empty may also be that we are considering the 2009 report. Today we are in March 2011 and it would suggest that even today's conclusion is possible to reach a conclusion that the report of the previous year would be dealt with in the first half of the following year, not a year and a little later, because it is very often irrelevant. This would be the responsibility of all institutions, from the Government, Parliament, if they dealt with it, and the transparency and openness of the hearing would be different because it would be linked to the previous year, which is somehow closer than the previous year. It is in our hands and options to influence the legislative process, and even if the Government does not respond, it would be right for the government coalition to support such a proposal. Only reports — the final findings of the Commission — say that, on the other hand, if the authorities prevent or obstruct such controls, we can only talk about the seeming control we have witnessed too often. In such cases, parliamentary supervision is just a farce, and so on, covering the feeling in public, that the control of services with exceptional powers is working, guided, but in this way it is more abuse than actual control and for such supervision it would be better not to have it, as if we had it at all. Well, in this area, we really need to do a lot of things. It is still quite a fresh story about the former state prosecutor, Mr Penk, who, at the same time, has been associated with future clients and is today taking action against the court as a defender or advocate. Or even worse, it is an eclectic case, which I say is probably the mother of a corrupt act – clearly does not apply to the whole judiciary, but certainly to Judge Šubica, who did not write judgments on accused persons who have been convicted in 9 months, and in the meantime the legislation has changed. This means that the prosecution did its job, the investigation did, the trial did its job, and then someone in such an eccentric way prevents those who deserve it from sitting in prison. I was quite surprised by the use of the specific investigation measures that have been applied, many of them. However, I feel that these special investigation measures have not been used to prevent organised economic crime. If, then – since we are talking to the 2009 report – all that has now flooded, all these bodies per day, that would not be easy. Thus, they have not been used or have been used, and in the political interest of each political party, the following measures have not been followed since the investigation, but have already been stopped or prepared, if you want, such a report by those who carried out the investigation or the prosecution that those who then continued the investigation have simply rejected it because they had a lack of evidence. This did not happen and also clearly – several times it was also warned and talked about, about silent societies, about the silent companion Daniel Toplek. The 2010 Investigative Authorities report is likely to reveal something about this. These are so eccentric, and these published public affairs, after they have come in the day, and they leave people in such a position and in such a position, which gives citizens and citizens the feeling that they have no influence at all. Unfortunately, when we have such a feeling, we also have Members and Members, on the one hand, when we warn about irregularities, on the other hand, nothing happens. Besides, what can happen to us? We can get stuck before some elections, and this has already happened, or for a while after who comes across to discredit, disqualify, and then say that there is no reasonable suspicion. Of course, mistakes can't be rectified. It is unacceptable for me to get a written message from the Minister of the Interior or the Ministry of the Interior that the police have destroyed the documentation relating to the traffic accident, which is linked to Satex, and the procedure has not yet been completed. Or to write that they checked the statement of someone who was supposed to be employed with them, and they have no record of it. So, it's a grave lie, a data [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. [[He's not here.]] Andrey Magain has the word. Get Tadej Slapnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u4	Good-bye. We've been talking to ourselves more or less in the morning. Now the media will be, and now it will be more interesting, because there are still media, but there is also no special interest. Look, using special methods and measures is always an intervention, is a force. Education measures in school have always taken some form of coercion, if they have been carried out in such a considerate manner. Also, forcing someone to talk, constantly forced, especially when dealing with repressive organs. In principle, my point of view. There has already been a mistake in the composition of the government, not a mistake, a politically unwise move, but I would not want to discredit anyone, both ministers – Minister, Minister – are very capable. The problem is that they belong to the same political group. Not to the group, because the coalition is from the same political group. I mean the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, who belongs to the same party. The director of the Owl, however, falls under the government's influence. Look, Slovenia is so small. Not just because of smallness, but it is not just political connections, sometimes it is purely personal relationships at personal level – friends. I therefore doubt that the matter surrounding the investigation office will be resolved at any time. I believe the protagonists who are supposed to solve this affair are embarrassing. Someone you're investigating is your personal friend. That's a tough thing to do. It was not politically correct, therefore, that both departments, which are directly or indirectly repressive authorities, are also in the hands of the same party, LDS, and I have nothing against this party, much good to do, and I am not meroded to judge this here. Not only that, they're friendly relationships. In these repressive bodies, too, unfortunately, it is also politically recruited. And these examples – but not in this government, certainly not, all the time, all the time, every government has this temptation. And I will say, even that Scriptural for the end, for we know the prayer of our fathers, write, O God, let me not sin; write, do not tempt me. These temptations are purely systemic. I myself know a case that I will also submit to the Commission in a month – I hope – which suggests that the repressive authorities, at least in our country, are obviously using these methods [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I'm afraid time's up. Tadej Slapnik has the word to prepare Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Parliamentary oversight is the most important form of democratic control and direction of the work of intelligence and security operators. It is important to take into account that these services have, by law, significant powers which interfere with the Constitution and other laws guaranteed and protected by fundamental human rights and freedoms. The security and intelligence activity subject to supervision is carried out by the police in accordance with the Police Act, the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence under the Defence Act and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency under the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act. In the Really Group, the new policy would like to point out that the subject matter and scope of parliamentary supervision of the work of intelligence and security services are defined in terms of ensuring respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the use of the financial resources that security and intelligence authorities need to operate. It is not their whole activity under the supervision of the security services, but only the part in which the measures in which the individual’s privacy and rights are substantially affected are applied and the person concerned is not aware of these measures at the time of their implementation. Even if the measures are determined by a judicial decision, judicial supervision is not comprehensive. In fact, we argue that these fundamental objectives of parliamentary control should therefore also be subordinated to the implementation of the parliamentary supervision carried out by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. As far as the findings of the 2009 report on the Commission's work are concerned, we find this alarming. The Commission, led by SDS Member Zvonko Černač, found at its meetings, in particular following unfounded insinuations of the latter – it is worth noting that the opposition has the majority of the members of the commission – that the police should be generally abused for political purposes. In addition, in the final findings of the Commission, there is a sneezing of hints without any material basis or finding based on the supervision carried out. The majority of the members of the Commission or its President refer in this respect to the feelings of part of the policy or political parties. In doing so, I am referring to the notification of a suspected bomb that the police are expected to use to investigate in one of the Parliament's parliamentary groups. Indeed, we are convinced that if we want the report to be credible, this cannot be based on the feelings and imagination of some of its members. We also find it alarming that, in addition to this, some other tended views and conclusions have been made, at least in our opinion, without a real basis or are not based on real facts. Part of the Commission's members, here again, would point out the very responsibility of the President of the Commission, by including in the report of the Parliamentary Commission allegations of non-objectivity of supervisory services and illegality in the use of covert investigative measures, the use of these measures for political discrimination, the targeting of prosecution against political competitors with a view to their intimidation, and in particular the politicisation of the police and the apparent political recruitment of the police. In our view, these findings stand for serious opinions and represent the political structure of some members of the Commission or its President, who have been working without success to prove to the police that they are doing their work on the basis of political instructions. For those reasons, the Commission's report does not benefit from support. We are convinced that these are baseless and manipulative views and conclusions. In Zares, we would like to point out that the President of the Commission is exerting political pressure on the police. Since the beginning of his term of office, he wants to prove by trying to obstruct the police and by attacking the Director-General of the Police and the Minister of the Interior that there is no police supervision in Slovenia or that the political party is being monitored and the police are being abused for political purposes. It saddens us that such behaviour is becoming the biggest obstacle to the independent and professional work of the police and that, with such and similar manoeuvres, it undermines confidence in law enforcement authorities, which can lead to the breakdown of the postulates of the rule of law. We believe that Zvonko Černač, with such intrusions and instigations built on a series of manipulations, constantly proves that he is not worthy of the chair of the Commission. In Zares, we estimate that Zvonko Černač has so far been the most controversial and most excellent Chairman of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The latest assessment is also based on the fact that the two members of the Zares Group - a new policy in the past, Mr Terčon and Mr Gantar - led this commission, during the time of the government run today by the largest opposition party of the SDS. The Commission or Commission President Zvonko Černač was able to raise doubts about the legality of police operations by means of tamperings built on a series of manipulations. In fact, we are not interested in the political fight of the SDS against one of the coalition parties, but we are convinced that it is unacceptable that Mr Zvonko Cernač, as president of the Commission, has misused his role for political purposes and thereby discredited parliamentary control as the most important form of democratic control. It circulates in the public, thanks to its already unwarranted insinuations, which undermine the integrity and trust of state authorities. Tinker Bell did not abuse his office as chairman of the commission for the first time. He did so in his 2008 report on the work of the Commission, not to mention his role in addressing the issue of the extradition of materials from the former State Security Service of the archive of the Republic of Slovenia and access to the materials of the former SDV, which was stored or stored by Sova. Having allowed the convening of the two urgent meetings of the Commission requested by the SDS, SLS and SNS members, this was on 10 January and 25 January of this year, while our request for an urgent meeting as President, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, has been disregarded and has obviously knowingly violated and abused its presidency. We must admit that we are not even surprised at Mr Chernač's behaviour. Infringement of the rules of procedure and abuse of the office of President has already afforded so much that we no longer count them. It appears that the concept of Slovenia as a democratic and legal state, the Constitution, the Law on Members and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the performance of its functions is not linked to anything previously mentioned when it comes to the interests of its political party, SDS and President Ivan Janez Janša. In Zares, we ask ourselves whether Mr Černač is indeed suitable to lead this commission, since even Mr Jerovšek, in his mandate 2000-2004 as President of this SDS Commission, has led a much more exemplary way. We will therefore consider in Zares how to complement the current Law on parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services in order to prevent such abuses by the Institute of Oversight and the work of the Commission in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek. You must address him to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The present performance by Member Slapnik was prepared, written from outside, pamphlet [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u9	Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u10	Yeah, I'll give the procedure, let me explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u11	Because there remains a substantive debate to which you have the right, but not in the context of a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u12	It is necessary to respond to a specific performance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u13	No, you can't, you can't use a replica with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u14	I'll make a procedural proposal. Please don't stop democracy in the National Assembly. It's on a pamphlet that wasn't a debate. And, Mr President, although this is a member of your party, who was obviously led by this performance, we should warn him and remind him that such a thing is not allowed, because this was an act that tried to discredit the President of the Commission, who is acting exceptionally properly, before the public. Therefore, please remind Member Slapnik that he has violated the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u15	I've come to understand your procedural proposal. I'm not gonna do that. Mr Slapnik gave his opinion as he said. He did not use hurtful words, as I listened intently to them. However, everyone who has been mentioned in his speech has the opportunity and sufficient time to respond to these matters in an even more unthinkable and false manner. He has the word Zvonko Černač as his proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u16	Mr Slapnik is a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In 2009, this was not yet, we are considering the 2009 report, at which time Mr Kek – sorry, Mr Wigel – was a member of Zares – but not the whole year 2009. I expected another finale in this performance: a formal proposal for my discharge or chandeliership, as you did on the commission of inquiry in the so-called Patria case. This is now this new policy, which smells like old audiences, but this is the state of the spirit in this House. The discussion was on the abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Oversight, on tampering, on manipulation, on the abuse of the 2008 report and so on, without any indication of this. With one quote. That's the level of anonymity. It's only positive that this time the author is legitimizing, that's good, because this is one step forward. In such a case, it can be looked into his eyes and answered, in the case of slanders that come in such or other anonymities and which have already carried out a number of prominent representatives of this country, who have done their job well, the last of the former director of the Owa, this is not possible. So, there's no record in the report that the police were generally abused for political purposes. Nowhere. That's Mr. Slapnik's idea. It is very clear that individual cases, and I also told them in the closed section, indicate that there is a possibility of abuse for political purposes and that in one particular case the investigation took place in the direction of political disqualification. He also said why, I've justified it, and I'm not going to do it again. Most people in both the police and Owls are professional and work well. It is wrong for a policy approach to their work to infect them with a different mode of action, and this is recalled by this report. This should be avoided. I would expect a member of the Commission to understand what the purpose of such a report is and why we are alerting them and what we want to do with these warnings. With regard to the rejection of the emergency meeting, I have made this rejection very clear, reasoned, in writing, justified by the legal basis of the explanations and sent it to you, so you know very well why this meeting was not convened. If you believe that it should be invoked, then this is matter, given what you wrote in this request, for another commission called the Committee on Culture and so on, led by one of your representatives. It would be so much easier on this committee to achieve what you have set out to achieve and what is far from the purpose for which the parliamentary supervisory committee is to engage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc, prepare Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that Mr Slapnik has given me very good starting points, and Mr Jerovšek has said in his old practice that it is a conspiracy that has come from the outside. I propose that we introduce some parliamentary investigative committee where we will discover the writer who wrote today's speech to Mr Slapnik. Because I think what he said today is totally unsustainable. On behalf of the President, I propose to Mr Jožef Jerovsk. I think that the report before us today, as well as the proposal for conclusions and recommendations, should be rejected precisely because of what my colleagues have already said before me; because it is not based on facts, but based on some flat-rate judgements, the accusations that we have been used to. I will focus on the second recommendation, or conclusion, which states that due to political recruitment in the supervised services, the ongoing conflicts of the ruling coalition with the top of the prosecution, all of this strengthens the feeling of politicisation of those services in the public eye and constitutes an obstacle to strengthening confidence in the establishment of the rule of law. Who's talking about it?Oh, my God! Who's talking about discredit?Oh, my God! About political disqualification?Oh, my God! Who's talking?Oh, my God! That's what those who can't file documents say. And that's exactly why we need to ask ourselves, and we know which pen these conclusions came from. These conclusions have come from the very peres of those people who do not know how to file documents, so these people who draw such conclusions and reports are also unworthy and unworthy of these reports. It is difficult to speak of the protection of the rule of law and the strengthening of trust in institutions and the rule of law by those who do not have full respect for the rule of law and its institutions. None. And you've recently proven that, and you confirm that every day. I'll be brief because my colleague Kumer, who is a member of this committee, will tell you more about this. As for the abuse of the Presidents of the Supervisory Boards, as well as others, it is symptomatic of something. The Laws and Rules of Procedure shall apply in the National Assembly. And among certain presidents, it has fallen apart to judge by their own judgment whether or not they will convene a particular meeting. Depends on whether it suits them. It is even more symptomatic and funny that then their leader of the parliamentary group at the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly is suing and weeping as to how these same presidents, who are consciously violating the rules of procedure that are consciously violating the law, are a target of how victims are. And so those presidents, as the President of the National Assembly has said well last time, I must say that this statement has really said everything, and then they find themselves under the leadership of the Group of Members, Mr Jožet Tank. This is ridiculous and regrettable. As it is said, this report, these conclusions and these recommendations do not deserve support, because they are not based on real facts, but on some conspiracies, some flat-rate accusations that we have been used to. Once this credible report is in place, it will also deserve support. But before I do, it won't get my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. He has the word Zvonko Černač as his proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u20	This text should be read during the period in which this has actually taken place. This is the 2009 report. Remember, the law was amended so that the Director-General of Police could be appointed past the call for proposals. Permanent disputes with the Attorney General were in that year, you know, a constant, because he was preparing the terrain so that he could be mirrored or replaced in some way. The entire structure, the top of the team at the Ministry of the Interior, was replaced and co-opted from the right political option. In the individual Directorates of this Ministry, you have people sitting in the National Assembly or sitting as advisers to individual political parties. Individual examples of measures that have been followed up against individuals when an investigative measure, which is used after a year and a half after some activity has been detected on a computer, is carried out after a year and a half in the event of some rapid detection of crime; all of this has strengthened this feeling that these services are also politicised in certain parts. And that is to be avoided.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Lovtišar Bebler has the word to prepare for Franci Kek – she will not discuss. Get Mr. Joseph Jerovšek ready. Here you go, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So what has just been said convinces me that everything that has already been said critical in today's debate at the expense of the proposed positions and conclusions is true. In fact, until now I did not know that the competence of this committee to supervise the security and intelligence services is also to assess whether any law adopted by the National Assembly is appropriate or not. So, I think the proposer himself answered the question that was raised. I am also dissatisfied with the fact that we are considering this report with great delay, that some things have also faded slightly and that there are actually new problems to be addressed in terms of parliamentary supervision of the functioning of security and intelligence services or parliamentary control over security situations, if I simplify them. However, as regards the report and the material that we are considering and accepting today, it is unclear to me whether a report can be considered credible after all, as it also contains some comments that are not so much concerned with whether the security and intelligence services are sufficiently effective or are functioning legally in a consistent manner, but actually, evaluations and comments are primarily aimed at political qualifications and disqualification of political opponents. That's black on white. And in this case, in this commission, of course, the majority of the opposition and then the methods used here are appropriate. In recent times we have had the opportunity to meet these methods in abundance, in fact. These same methods are, of course, also used in the positions and conclusions that are now being addressed at the public meeting. That's what we need to worry about. I must say that everything that is problematic in his debate is of particular concern to Mr Slapnik, a fellow Member of Parliament. That's worrying. However, to believe him, it also comes from my experience so far as members of some investigative committee for deleted persons, as we say, as deleted in this House, which is also chaired by an SDS Member, from the opposition, where it has been rather unfair and inappropriate to abuse its presidency and has not even respected some basic manners that must be used in the functioning of an investigative or supervisory commission in this House, so I will not support these proposed positions or conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Prepare the Victory of the Elinčič Noble, behind him mag. Borut Saiovic, Vito Rožej and Dr Pavel Gantar. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, with regard to the delusions of colleague Melita Župevc and her proposals for an investigative commission, of course, under quotations. I must say that I thank you for such attention to her recruitment, because what the politically fair people would say if she proposed to me, she would try to discredit me. However, we have before us the views and conclusions of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2009. For 2009, this is the first operational year of the current government coalition and the current government, this report is very indicative. I must say that it is extremely correct to ask the right questions: whether the intelligence services are under control or whether there are attempts at political abuse of these services. I must say that it is clear to all that the intelligence services have received new instructions at this time and that we have detected a shift at this time, I will say, in a more politically controlled service with instructions beyond the scope of competence and we have been able to understand the political abuse of these services. The current authorities, of course, have the potential to move these maneuvers in these services and to operationalize these pressures. Why? Because it has a great tradition from the previous system. I'll give you two cases that are actually indicative. It is in fact clear from this report that the Director of the Service, Mr Rupnik, has actually been replaced by anonymities. Although there was no problematic case of his actions in public, he was replaced. And, as has already been said, the anonymous ones were only at the time of his operation or earlier, even in the time of the previous government, at the expense of the operation of the Owl. As soon as the current authorities "save the situation," if I say in the pronunciations, the anonymity is gone. So the anonymous came from inside the Owl and other intelligence services. Although the workers of the Owl, if there were cases of illegality, could turn directly to the commission, this is stated in the law to protect their identity so that they could have no consequences. So, anonymouss were written by a totalitarianly oriented part of intelligence services, and they were sometimes transmitted through political officials. When I was a member of this commission in 2008, we visited the Owl for a few months. It was only on that visit that I learned what it was like to have, sometimes — if a Member had a direct connection with the internal situation, the daily connection to the internal situation in Owl. [[...]] Comrade Kumer said there when we got there to give a video – we were there on Wednesday – who went through the entrance on Sunday at 11 o'clock. So he had all the exact operational information from Owl. At the time, I realized how well he knew the internal structure and how directly he had communication. And of course, on this basis, it was clear to me that Owl was politically shot and that it was illustrative of the previous government that it could already create a politically independent institution in that mandate, an intelligence service is being called. Of course, under the mandate of their own government, these processes were unsuccessful. We have moved forward, and we regret that today's event at the hearing of the report also points to this. The government has ordered the directors of the intelligence services to ignore Parliament for the first time since we have dealt with these reports. There's no one here. None of the ministers who are actually directly connected. The President of the Government, who is directly in charge of the Owl, did not give a political signal that the National Assembly should not be ignored in this way. And there may be an extraordinary fear in this for the citizens. The Owl was torn off and intelligence services were cut off from political control. They do not recognize him by this symbolic act. The question is, what instructions do they have? Recently, we have seen what a powerful fear the present power has brought about in order to expose those things that were contrary to human rights or positive legislation. That this is an extremely studied policy of the current authorities, we are also witnessing developments in Parliament. Without consequences, without protests, an official press representative of the Prime Minister of a democratically elected Member of the National Assembly may accuse Goebbels and compare him to Goebbels. Also, the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest party of the second opposition member is called "repressively educated Jugashvili", says Stalin, the killer. In this regard, I asked the President of the National Council for Opinions, and he promised me and he did not answer me. Even less surprising is this shift into the repressiveness of this system, to the abuse we perceive when a member of the leading party openly advertises the slogan of Mussolini and fascism as a method of his client's work. Mr. Yuri said that, of course. And in such circumstances, of course, we are also considering this report and, in view of such circumstances, we may not be surprised by the gallantness, the fluency of the performances of government Members, the discreditation of the President of the Commission. For you don't want to control your intelligence services during your reign, and you will do everything you can to prevent it from being a cartoon, a cover for abuse. Members, we must be very concerned about what is happening. At the same time, these views state that economic crime does not receive adequate attention and appropriate action by intelligence services. We have warned about this when I was the chairman of this commission myself, it has been promised all the time that it will improve, we are actually witnessing this year 2009 and below – a selective approach. Some directors operating through Cyprus, Liechtenstein and there send huge sums of money for money laundering, which then falls into private pockets, and this from state companies, are not subject to the work of intelligence services, even though they have the authority to do so. In no way can the public services explain how the sons of some directors appear in these transactions via Cyprus, with land in Ljubljana. Of course, because it's about sons and entrepreneurs from respectable families! That's what we learn from some journalists. However, the services we have to protect, including their task, is to protect the property of the State, to protect against the issue of the State, because what happened in the economic field in that country in those years is the issue of the State, ladies and gentlemen. So many millions and millions and billions of money that you've transformed abroad into private accounts – the issue of this country. The courts, of course, could also view this as sabotage against the state as issuing state if it were political will. As a result, there are still some positions that are written here and which are based on the proper, conscientious work of the Commission. Of course, it is present, you can see, the political order that this should be rejected. For the protection in this country of those who also use political methods, the political abuse of intelligence services and who are dedicated to this society, who are representatives of the highest; the protection of these is more valuable than respect for human rights, from the political control of intelligence services through Parliament. Once again, I stress: I have not experienced such a symbolically despicable attitude on the part of the Government towards the National Assembly in the 15 years I have been here. The government has reported that intelligence services can abuse human rights so that they can abuse human control services and people can be afraid of such views and the government’s actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Let Vito Rojej be prepared and then Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This year's report or report for 2009 differs significantly from previous reports. I'd say it's a lot more thorough, precise and well-prepared. It is true, however, that there have also been far more violations in the field of our intelligence and security services. However, these infringements can be regulated by respect for certain laws and, above all, by better choice of candidates or employees in these jobs. If I take the case of Sovo, there are quite a few people there who, instead of primarily protecting the Slovenian state, are primarily seeking faults in the opposition and especially with one of the opposition party presidents. In this case, I don't think myself; in this case, I'm only elsewhere when some people want to deal with me, look for me, dig around, and actually break the law. Many times, too, these people do not respond to warnings from the field and are simply retreating back so as not to endanger their own integrity, as they say. This is an example, so people came to me to tell me, for example, a variety of variants from Jessenic in the Wahhabi community, where I think our services should react, look for and explore things. But it's not my job to get into this. Mrs Kresalova has done that I had to leave this commission, and therefore I can only point to this from afar and more superficially. The abuse of intelligence and security services for private purposes is continuing for political purposes. The wiretaps are still, they are running - I hope that there will be no more illegal deprivations of freedom, as was the case with me under the Ministry of the Interior command, so that they will no longer carry out any more night investigations with special units. Here I have to thank once again the sober heads of certain police officers who did not follow the instructions and did not conduct an investigation at my house at night with reflectors dressed in black, with swift-shooters, when they pushed a four-year-old and a seven-year-old girl and my wife against the wall, while looking for documents and documentation concerning the bulmastif affair, where Mrs Kresalova touched me if I wanted to make a deal, bribe or bribe, while she was the one who was the one who allowed the most bribe or blackmailed the prime minister and got the bribe by doing what she demanded when she set the conditions that she would not, but not in coalition. But, of course, this is Slovenia, this is not a regulated country, this is not a legal state and we will have to do a lot more to make the country legal. I think it is one of these tasks, including that this will be carried out in the right direction, including the Commission's task to control intelligence and security services. Of course, some gentlemen are in pain of making mistakes out loud. However, one wonders why our intelligence or intelligence services do not seek and investigate people, including Slovenian citizens who have dual citizenship and who drag money abroad. All world intelligence services follow the flow of money, especially with citizens who are their citizens and who have another foreign citizenship. In this case, even internal intelligence services do not violate any legislation, as they investigate a person who also has foreign citizenship. Slovenia could very much recover if those hundreds of millions of euros that have been stolen and withdrawn abroad were brought back. Sometimes this is what the State Security Service has done, and today we have some disabled services that are their own purpose, but they employ a whole range of different communication doctors who don't really know what that name actually means. I think that in the field of intelligence and security services, we should take a strong look at everything, clean up these services and prepare them and put them back together. This is all that Slovenia could get out of doing nothing else in this area than following its political opponents. Gentlemen forget that the period of political work of the State Security Service has passed. It's gone, and it can't be. However, we are returning to that period with the assistance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the assistance of the Ministry of Justice. I think it's high time there's already an election to change that. For it is only the starting point that the same political party, a minority political party, has in the hands of two repressive authorities, for surely the Ministry of Justice is nothing but a repressive body or its extension in this case. That's unacceptable. I think we're gonna have to change that. Above all, the intelligence and security services employ people who are Slovenians for the first time. At times the verification was very thorough and looked back and around, today it is no longer and we also have in these services people who are not even Slovenians, now they are Slovenian citizens, but some, I would say that they are not thinking at all in the interests of their own country, but in all other interests. In short, there'll be plenty of work to do. I think that the report should be adopted just because further work is to be done on the basis of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozje will not discuss it. Dr. Pavel Gantar. Get Aloysius Potočnik ready, after him Anton Anderlich. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, certain institutions in this country, we know this, Sova, the Slovenian Armed Forces Intelligence Service or the Ministry, the criminal police, and consequently electronic communications operators have an unusual and unique legal mandate that, contrary to generally recognised standards, the principles may interfere with the individual's human rights, privacy and dignity. That gives them the law. Because they may interfere, we also have a parliamentary committee to oversee security and intelligence services. Not only to check that it exceeds its powers, but also to see whether this interference is relatively small, which can be limited and so on. Here's the important task of this commission. We must always wonder what the limits of this parliamentary control are. From my own experience, I can say - and I think it is no different now - that we have a very exemplary arrangement at the legal level, if I can compare it with other countries, but that does not mean that we can always and everywhere, we could say, control and check whether everything is as it should be, or not. This hypothesis that any commission and any president miss anything, we must always have it with us if we are to be consistent. In doing so, however, it is necessary to firmly reject these types of discourses, after which, when we are in power, these services have acted in a non-problem and fine manner, and when we are in opposition, we have repeatedly revealed how the ruling coalition abuses this service. Such a discourse is already null and void, meaningless and unnecessary. And around it, people are so smart they know they won't buy stories like that. I myself support the amendment of the law, the strengthening of the professional segment in these commissions and the changing of the law and other acts so that this report becomes really public, so to speak, in 90% or 95%. I don't understand why a total number of earphones shouldn't be public. I don't understand why a lot of things like aggregate statistics should not be public. I have to say, it makes sense that we're working on it. I also believe that we have – even when I was the President of the Commission, I thought that we were paying too much or very much attention to the Owls, perhaps even to the police or the operators, very little, and I was aware of that, but also to the Slovenian Army's intelligence and security services. It's the nature of things. But we have a limited amount of time, and somehow they did, you know, listen up, down, down there, intercepting in fact we didn't do enough in the intelligence and security service. [[...]] I am sorry that I have not been able to discuss in the closed part of the session, but I believe that the problem of the distinction between interception and other forms could be said to intercept communications on the one hand and the issue of electronic fighting that there is no such distinction as it should be; that we do not know what is in the segment that is or is not in the fog zone or whether it falls within the jurisdiction that this story is not that this story is not legally and with the powers of the commission is closed as it should be. More about it. Unfortunately, at this point, there's no way to say it. At the point where, as it is called, I was called or intertwined in the context of the views, the final findings of the Commission, the conclusions of the report on page 6, point 8, point 8 to the Commission's finding or report that the leadership of the National Assembly did not give any answers when the Commission examined the investigation of the false communication on the suspected bomb planted at the premises of the National Assembly. Indeed, the information requested by the Commission was rejected, of course. What did the commission ask for? We can say that. The Commission has requested the number of employees in the Security Service which protects the National Assembly and changes in the last year. How data protection is ensured in the National Assembly, such as recording meetings, making magnetograms, other documentation, who has access to different secrets. She demanded – I am talking about the Commission as a whole – that, of course, part of the Commission was not for this – who are nominally authorised persons who have access to such documentation, such as the supervision that there is no abuse, the naming list of persons who have been newly employed or assigned to posts in the recording room, the documentation, the material and mail department, the written records service, the names list of persons in charge of recording the meeting in the last year, the production of written records, who are persons who are keeping and so on, how many times have the information officer and officials entered the protected area of the National Assembly, the names of persons who have access to the data in the confidential area, who is carrying out the control that the security service maintains – and some of them – are made available under the same conditions of entry and are made under the same conditions of entry. Of course, I also rejected such research on the basis of Dr Cerar's legal opinion, where it clearly states that this is not the responsibility of the Commission to control the intelligence and security services, that the National Assembly as a whole and also its security services or services that carry out it are not subject to supervision by this supervisory commission, and even less all these personal data that it wants to hear and learn. Thus, if he wanted to, he would have to address the Ministry of the Interior, which has this basic security service. In short, I am not going to be too long, in this regard I can only tell you that I will very clearly prevent any attempt by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services – I am talking about the whole committee, I suppose that everyone does not have the same opinion – that this Commission would voluntarily, without any legal basis, turn into a committee for the Security and Intelligence Service of the National Assembly, so that, if I may say, monitor, or if you want me to use a slightly more emotionally charged term, sneak up on MPs, Members, civil servants of the National Assembly, collect personal data and regulate them. I will always be against it, and, of course, I will always prevent it. That's why you didn't get this information from me and you won't get it. I also tell you that you, members and members, presidents and members of the Commission are, of course, entitled to the information belonging to each Member in relation to security in the National Assembly. Also with regard to information on what we can learn and what the police have provided us with regarding the suspected planted bomb, which they have, by the way, revealed – and I think they have also made public – that they have uncovered the perpetrators of the false alarm. I think they were even such years that they had to be introduced with initials. So much for that. And once again, I'd like to say the following. It is crucial for the functioning of this service, as well as for all the committees and committees of the National Assembly, that Members and Members in charge of this exercise are aware that they need to distance themselves somewhat from their former parliamentary function, their political role in Parliament and their other political role, as they would say, from the political chalk they represent in the National Assembly. That they must act in accordance with the Statute, with the Rules of Procedure or with the specific laws they have in order to enable the National Assembly, in addition to the legislature, to carry out a number of other functions at its disposal. And I'm afraid and I'm sorry that this report has come to include sentences that can't be proved or contradicted and about which – this was my rule when I was chairman of this commission, this is the rule of the famous philosopher Wittgenstein – "What I have to keep silent about, I can't talk about." And I ask you kindly to tell me that if you say that the feeling of politicization is getting stronger, then tell me with some indicators, signs, where and how it's getting stronger. Not a feeling. If we wrote that this strengthened the politicalization of the National Assembly, I'd say O. K., politicization of these services in public, O. K., give us the data and we'll prove it. In order not to prevent the possibility of their additional use, because in individual cases the principle of proportionality is not respected – again we have no cases or nothing, no data. Such a report, such conclusions cannot be credible. The general suspicion, I say, of this commission must be methodical: although we have tried to do the most, we still do not rule out that we missed anything; we still do not rule out the possibility that they are smarter, more technically educated, have more time, they can bring us around more quickly than we do, we still do not exclude it, but when we write a report, when we express it as the body of the National Assembly and as the National Assembly, we have a recommendation to make, we have to make it in a clear hard form and prove it. What we can't talk about, we have to keep quiet about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik will not discuss it. Mr. Anton Anderlich? Mr. Blackach? On behalf of the commission? Here you go! Mr Jerovšek, I don't know what you want. You can't, Mr Jerovšek, substantively replicate, because Mr Cernač will talk about the content when it comes to the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u30	I have said earlier that I am pleased that there are more and more of us who are advocating for the greatest possible public in this area, and that I have the ambition, that the ratio of the amount of information in these reports will be turned into the public interest of this report as much as possible and that there have been problems in the past. Even in the 2008 report, this spirit has not yet been felt in order to provide as much information as possible to the public. On the other hand, it is surprising: on the one hand, the campaign for the public and the restriction of access to certain information, which is completely, in my opinion, non-problematic. Why shouldn't Members of Parliament and the Commission know who is responsible for the protection of the National Assembly, who deals with the data? But we've been asking these questions in connection with the false announcement of the bomb on Sunday 8. 11. 2009 in these rooms. It normally seems to me that, not to the Commission, but to all Members, the leadership of the National Assembly would give a brief report or information on this event: very factually, what was going on, where this was happening, and what the conclusions or findings were. This seems completely normal and hygienic and absolutely nothing problematic and exacerbation that is absolutely unnecessary at this point. However, it seems somehow that we are strong in words when we advocate for publicity and transparency and weak in actions when it is actually necessary to do so. Not just legality, it has been said, but proportionality in the application of these measures is also important — yes! And that's what we've warned you about. It is not true that this is a flat-rate assessment that this proportionality has not been respected. There are quite a few concrete cases, and given that they have been dealt with publicly, I can also say publicly here. When it came to this arms theft in Polhova Cave in 2009, a measure was implemented for an extremely wide area. For an extremely wide area. First, completely unnecessary, and secondly, contrary to the law. People who had nothing to do with this event found themselves in that social network. Despite the fact that this measure sought to reach the perpetrators, this path was not as effective as it turned out later. A similar case was the investigation of the so-called story of Patria, where the disproportionateity of the measure essentially reduced the effectiveness of the investigation. She didn't get bigger, she got smaller! Because if you have a few hundred thousand soko-communications, it can't get any bigger and no one will tell me that this can make it more effective for the potential perpetrators of crimes. [[...]] All these specific cases - and I mentioned earlier to him a Member who, after a year and a half of the event that took place with a non-problem photo - did a house inquiry - say that this proportionality is unfortunately not respected. Look, it's not the parliamentary commission currently run by Zvone Cernač – until you decide otherwise than I hear – the one that would be problematic. He doesn't have any mechanisms in his hands, no powers! This Commission is the one who, through parliamentary supervision on the one hand, is attempting to establish some control mechanisms to prevent potential abuses and, on the other hand, makes it clear to the public that these measures under the applicable legislation are not being used too widely and that God does not give them political intentions. And you will not convince me that in all these events that we have been monitoring in 2009, and which unfortunately we are still following, from time to time, that this temptation was not so strong that this has not been exploited. You're not gonna convince me, you're not gonna convince people, you're not gonna convince people, you're not. And I understand it bothers you. I am not speaking here as a representative of some political option of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I am speaking as a representative of the National Assembly, from the point of view of the legislation that governs this area, and from the point of view of ensuring that people who are professionally engaged in these works are able to carry out them as professionally and impartially as possible and independently of any policy. And I agree that these issues are important, no matter who is currently in power, and no matter who is in power in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. To prepare Zvonko Černač, if he wants to speak within the time of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u32	Hello again. When we talk about the report of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, it is always a question of how, to what extent it is right to say publicly what is so interested in the public on the one hand that they are concerned, whether these authorities are acting in accordance with the laws and taking care of those things called national security and similar, and at which point this is turned into unnecessary or even prohibited action when it comes to endangering individuals and human rights in general. We have a rather difficult job to do. We've seen two documents, one for a closed section, one for one here, and we've got one here, and we're listening to the members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which runs this surveillance, which everyone is witnessing, let's say, in their own way, that I'm not going to say diametrically the opposite. And when I define myself, which I am not a member of this committee, we need to rely on a judgment to believe and what the data are, which are the events that are important for the consideration of this report. This area is problematic, since there have been intelligence services, so I am talking about control, and in these days it appears in the Slovenian space of controversy of one of the directors of intelligence services since the beginning of this country, I think it was then called VIS, who was able to operate with suitcases and carry papers out and arrange and similar things and trust only one person and other Members in this house. Then I have a number of other things that are related to this service in individual periods, including the earthquake that Mr Šinkovec performed in this service, as you know, which would also be Director of Sowe and so on. And now the question arises, What are these documents that we have read or are available today? I myself agree with that part of the conclusion when the Commission says - I don't know if this is now the conclusion of the work of the Commission or of the whole commission, because here, by witnessing and by the discussions of the members of the Commission, these things differ – when you say that the integrity of the supervision has not yet been ensured and that we are still far from quality control. I believe this because I have been dealing with these issues for many years, and I am monitoring how all the jobs are involved, but I can also argue for a time before this country, as well as for another country, when an Watergate affair occurs to them or something else, when various services of the countries where these services want to keep something to themselves and also do not tell supervisors that they can be informed of the situation and so on. But here's the eternal dilemma of how to get this data. I must say that it is impossible to support conclusions and conclusions, because if we were to agree that this was a case – except one that could be claimed to be so – you claim that it was a mass occurrence of cases where these services and certain other bodies were used for political purposes. There is no evidence of this, but there is no way out of this if these views were accepted, but they would confirm that this really exists. I must say that this is not from what could be read in a confidential document – I fully agree here. And Mr Černač, you know that there was not one discussion in such cases in the archives where I would not stand for as many things as possible to be public and that we mistified as little as possible the things that were normally published before in the media. But if not, at least after a closed session like this happens and who knows how to say more than it really did in there. That is why I fully support here – and this would be, say, one thing that you could tell her is progress – to look at what is really what you need to hide and what you don't. Further, political recruitment. I really don't know if it's possible to say over the finger, who's politically qualified or who's not politically qualified. Politically, all those appointed by the government appointed by Parliament and so on are staffed. Because there's probably no other mechanism. What happens to concrete personnel is that we don't even know. But I don't believe that any political party, even when it came to it, in some insolent cases in the past, has told the director that he has to hire it in Owl or that he has to, I don't know what, because he's a sympathizer, a member and so on. I don't believe it's done in such a way that sympathizers exist and prefer one or the other option, but it's a fact anyway. I am pleased that the President of the National Assembly today said something that I could not tell him or him when he was chairman of the Commission, not the National Assembly. But I'm talking about three and a half years ago that you have no control over the ODS. Today it is also written in one sentence about the electronic fighting unit and the means it has. Because next week there will be a trial due to this same ODS, where some things are supposed to be done as they should not be, but above all things are not under control. Today, Mr Gantar said this explicitly to my surprise, and I will be happy to use this next week in the trial, where my question is also: How is it that only by chance this service or this commission is less devoted to the control of the ODS, and not to the electronic fighting unit, but also has the means to carry out hidden purposes.? Remember the insidious cases when the then Prime Minister revealed that he had found a device in Owl that was not under control and so on. But these are practical things and measures that should be seen in the individual case – not in this public report, but also in the confidential one – not to see how many of those cases that you have supervised, where the Commission believes there have been alleged overriding powers – and that on this basis the National Assembly could adopt recommendations on how to tighten up, I do not know whether legislation or organisation of work or anything else. Only in that part do we clearly agree that as much as possible must be done to publicize what is being presented publicly — but much can be done! In particular, from the point of view of monitoring national security through these services. After all, we are discussing on various working bodies how the security situation is improving or what the security situation is, say, in Iraq, Afghanistan, BiH, Kosovo and so on. But when the question of what is Slovenia’s threat before or by terrorist groups and potential excesses in Slovenia is, however, no answer, no question; but of course many times – and even when we have a discussion on changes to the Foreign Act, this is actually a fundamental, central question: whether things change or whether we will be more exposed or less and so on. In the end, all I can say is that the signs that are going in the direction here have been quite a few words to say that the LDS is run by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice are extracted from the vine. This is not led by LDS, we have never discussed at the LDS party that you are no friend – I do not know who is with whom a friend – but what to say is that because someone comes from a political party, he is a minister; all ministers are politicians, all ministers come, including the first, from political parties. Yeah, how else can it be? Why are these two right there, you should ask the President of the Government, which is still a collective body and therefore feudalisation is not a suitable term. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Černač, on behalf of a group or commission? Commission Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u34	With regard to politicisation, I think it is clear what the Commission was going to say; but, according to what colleague Anderlich said, the last time in a circle is the LDS High Representative, but he is not employed in any of these supervised services, he argued that this way, which he has actually left in the public eye about police politicisation, is very harmful and that it is possible to conduct a house investigation with a well-known lawyer associated with LDS in a short time. If that really happens, which is not said to happen, then I'm really afraid for this country. In the past, however, many things have happened in such or different circles in advance. For example, it is well known that a mayor announced in advance who and when the house investigation will take place. Which means that these warnings are in place and we should all be concerned and that they are so much more in place when there is one whole repressive area where there is only one political option over it. That's not good, any political option would be any policy! And it would be worth considering, it would be worth thinking about trying ahead of time to make a preventive effort to change the law of this matter. About the ODS. The ODS has no privileged position; it is in the same way in the supervisory system as all other services, but has fewer powers and fewer activities than other services. But it's true that he still has an old director. This is the only one who hasn't been replaced. I am afraid that all this forecast of problem-solving continues to lead to the possibility that it will be replaced in a short time. In the opinions proposals we are not talking about mass phenomena, I must stress this once again, because it seems that some Members will vote against just because you repeat that we are talking about the mass phenomena of politicisation. We're not talking about that. If that's why you're against it, there's no reason. The individual cases reported by the Commission in the context of the work show that it is not possible to prevent abuse of services for political purposes only by carrying out parliamentary control and then by stating how and what; and in closed work also concrete cases that suggest this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I suppose, Mr Cernač, that you will not now speak on behalf of your Group of Members. Mr. Dusan Kumer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I have to say that I'm a little tired and I don't have the energy to deal with these issues in these years, four, five years in the National Assembly, but I'm going to try to make some changes. First of all, given the insinuation given by a fellow Member from the previous term, when we were one beautiful Sunday in the sun, one Monday or Tuesday, and for the video camera at the entrance, we suggested that we check out who was in Sova on Sunday, which was supposed to be empty, on a non-working day. And indeed, he was a director and was an employee or an important cabinet official of the Prime Minister who is sitting here today in the National Assembly. He came to Owl without anything, but when he went out, the camera showed him that he went with the envelopes under his armpit. This is one of the stories we dealt with last week with archives, but I wouldn't insinuate anything. The important thing is that if you're already in control, you can ask questions and you know what. Those people who work on these border things alone won't say that they did it and that and that. That is how it happened, and at that time Mr Šinkovec was Director, once again, and Mr Lavrich. Apparently, he didn't come for a food price list on the Ljubljana market. He came here for something else. There's been a lot of talk about the political replacement of Director Owl. During his term of office, Mr Janša had three directors of the Owl, two of them being replaced prematurely. I don't know why you're politicizing this case, but nobody was wondering why the Prime Minister replaced these two directors of the Owl. It is true, however, that in your views and observations you wrote down, you yourself resolved the former director. In one line, I'll read, you complimented him, and then you discredited him. In the key findings, you wrote: "After a long period, the Director of the Agency was the first person to regulate and manage the service legally and professionally. Thus, in 2009 the Commission received information on the work of the service that it requested or needed to monitor. It was also informed on its own initiative about the activities and measures carried out by the Service in 2009.' Thank you, good director. And two indents forward or two points forward: "As regards the activity of the Sova Agency, the Commission considers it insufficient to monitor the area of organised economic crime relating to the Slovenian economy. Crimes from that area are mostly committed in Slovenian territory and individual financial transactions can take place anywhere in the world. The government has shown no interest in keeping intelligence in this area as active as possible." Give your own answer. You suggest through these views and these findings that the government replace the director. And she didn't replace it in 2009. Therefore, due to these nebulos and many other things, of course, we will not support the views and conclusions and conclusions in the end. In the Group of Social Democrats, we find that the 2008 report, and in particular what we are dealing with today, proves that it is another parliamentary body that prefers to serve narrow political interests. And when individuals are willing to make cheap political points, it is impossible to write down such political and value assessments, both in the report and in these positions. That is why I will also use the valuable evaluation of this text, which you yourself have written as the proponents of these positions in the report. It goes like this: "In a nutshell, this is how the coastal attitude of politics and its individuals towards the state and the citizens is displayed." End of quote. Indeed, the content of these opinions and conclusions deserves this assessment, which is recorded in the report and which you have written down. For it is simply some kind of upgrade of the positions and conclusions of the 2008 report, where it was also written that Owa was quoted as saying: "At a time when he was not led by a prominent member of the SDS Matjaž Šinkovec, she acted as a political police." This was particularly true of the time when Dr. Podbregar led the Owl. This accusation, last year, when we discussed the 2008 report, was not innocent, but was certainly not naive and unplanned, which is evidence of positions and conclusions for 2009. In the 2008 Opinions, this assessment was recorded on the basis of one single act, which allegedly caught a conversation between Croatian President Sanader and Mr Janša in the control of international communications when he was supposed to discuss incidents in the Gulf of Piran. Today, with time distance on the integrity and credibility of the interlocutor on the other side of the wire, it makes no sense, given past events, to lose words. However, the agency's assessment that it acted as a political police force as a result of this event will remain eternally recorded in archives kept in the National Assembly and elsewhere. Today we have a follow-up to this assessment, written as an upgrade to this view, in the first point of these views and conclusions. I quote: "The individual cases reported by the Commission in the context of its work in 2009 show that it is not possible to prevent misuse of intelligence and security services for political purposes alone through the exercise of parliamentary control. Individual cases show that individual actions and investigative actions are directed at perpetrators of crimes that pose the least threat to a particular political option and are sacrificed as a message to the public about the effectiveness of prosecution or worse, individual measures and police actions are being launched against political competitors in order to intimidate them..." And there's a lot of nebulosis in these positions. For such a position that is written down and the assessment of the Commission has no basis because it cannot even have them, because the scope and powers of the work of our Commission are limited by the law on the supervision of intelligence and security services and are strictly laid down in the law. The political control we exercise over these services is primarily in the control of the legality of the application of the specific measures applied by these security and intelligence services. So it's some kind of, I'll say, ecclatic abuse of this parliamentary commission for personal, party and political purposes. It is precisely what you have proposed in the preamble to these views and the conclusion stated that I say, in capital letters and underlined as the theory of part of this political parliamentary control; that this political control should not be misused for narrow party purposes. And that is exactly what is happening, exactly what you have done with the proposal of these opinions and conclusions, as well as some valuable judgments and conclusions. Alone, of course, I have an explanation for this upgrade and I will not ask if I can say it, but I have already said it here, or I will do it again this year in public: in order for you to succeed, this political discredit and this political struggle with your opponents, you must first prove that the current authorities are not worthy of this position, so that they cannot successfully manage the economic and other crisis, so that the liars or at least the incompetents do not sit. And since 2012 is a super electoral year when citizens and citizens are elected by a new parliament and decided on the President of the Republic, it is also necessary to attack him. The SDS communication is also clear through the work of this commission: the government is incompetent, the President of the Republic is incompetent and is restoring the old udbov system, and the coalition to consolidate its power is abuse of the secret and security services and is using them as political police in the fight against the opposition. Please! It is therefore impossible to support such things in this House, in this House of Law. These conspirators' stories can go in inter-party battles outside this space, here and, of course, there is no room in these documents. And I will still have energy to combat such assessments and such views, despite my fatigue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, you don't have a replica [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] He explained the things you accused him of. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, take your word for it, but only three minutes and only on the subject of the talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u38	Comrade Kumer accused me of insinuation on a beautiful Monday day in connection with our visit to Owl in 2008. I don't know what insinuations. You admitted that you had information exactly who was walking the Owl on Sunday morning. All I said was that at the time, I was afraid that colleague Kumer had such extremely accurate information inside the Owl. That's how it got to me at the time, what if he, a representative of the Social Democrats, still has a permanent link to the cameras on Owl, surveillance cameras. For in such a short time you will know exactly who will appear where and which corridor in Owl. And I talked about it, and it's in connection with political control or politics! I must say that I was most convinced that there were so-called old forces, Prime Minister Drnovšek, when I visited him as chairman of the commission. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u39	Mr Jerovšek, this is no longer an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u40	I have to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u41	You have to explain everything, of course, but the content is something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u42	I said to Mr. Drnovšek, "Mr. Drnovšek, at closed sessions, your government Members speak most of all about abuses, about wiretapping." I specifically mentioned Mr Mojet, who spoke about this and that they are condemning then Director Lovrenčič to do so. Mr Drnovšek said: "These are old forces, these are old forces. It bothers you that I appointed the Democrat who was trained in America for this job." And Mr Drnovšek highlighted the gap between the old forces that abuse intelligence services and what should happen to the Owl in protecting democratic standards. I think, and once again, on the basis of this behaviour and what I have seen and today's conviction of the President and the discredit of the President of the Commission, is the shift back, the tendency that the old forces rule the Owl again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u43	Mr Jerovšek, you will also run out of time, but you are speaking entirely about other things. You want to explain what, Mr. Kumer? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because I would give you the right – immediately, Mr Anderlič – because Mr Jerovšek spoke about completely new things that were previously not discussed and if you would like, I give you my word. Here you go. He's got Tone Anderlich on a case-by-case basis, 'cause it's gonna be tough.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u44	Yeah, sure. That is all I suggest is that you act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that when time is considered as a replica, it is three minutes and cannot count the remaining time and count from the time remaining about 4 minutes for the sending group. And that's the same for everyone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u45	Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Why did I name insinuations? Because I didn't know when, who came in that Sunday. But when we came in, I suggested we take a look at who's been in Owl for the last three days. Nothing else! And then we found with your eyes that it was Lavre and that he met with Mr Shinkovec and that Mr Shinkovec was at one hour, I don't know, a nice Sunday afternoon or an afternoon, and they exchanged these documents. That's the whole story.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Would you like, Mr. Blackach, on behalf of the commission? Here, you have the floor on behalf of the proposer, which is the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Well, as far as the latter is concerned, Mr Lavrich has come to these premises in a legitimate manner as a member of a group called the Government, because of the work that has taken place in this service in the past. Well, one of these works was also mentioned by Mr Kumer and was mentioned in the 2008 report. By the way, these conclusions, Mr. Kumer, you supported the committee. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, Mr. Kumer, you've been in the National Assembly for some time now, so you probably know what you're deciding. But thinking differently would be very scandalous. So, in fact, under former director Podbregari, Owa acted as political police at the time. With this reference in the then report, we wanted to draw attention to this danger so that it would never happen again in the future. And what happened last year, February 2, here at the National Assembly? When I wanted to present the report to the press, the only question the journalist asked was how I comment on Mr Podbregar's defamation action, which he filed against me on the same day on 2 February. Interesting! On 2 February, an action for defamation was brought, by the way, because of what was written in the report, which was proved on the grounds of the documents and all the other documents. On the same day, the journalist knew about this and the media did not report the report, but it did. What has been said to these methods, such as these and similar, and to this dictionary, which we have listened to again in one part of the debate today when one who wishes to give good warning about irregularities is to be discredited in one way or another? Aren't these the old wedding methods? With something to defile someone, there is nothing about it, the matter to be properly placed in the public, to properly glue it and then to say it – and we follow these methods in many areas in 2011! In the last period of the re-accusation of arms trafficking. Hundreds of times, hundreds of reports have been written! In the National Assembly, you even had a committee on this matter. My predecessors in this committee have dealt with this; no amount of time have they spent — nothing has been proved in these documents. Now there are accusations of corruption, corruption, bribery, 20 years ago, and I don't know what else. It is likely that these control mechanisms, which should be established over these services, have not been implemented in an appropriate manner to the end and that these methods have apparently not been cleared. I don't know why it's wrong to commend the former Director of the Owl, Mr Rupnik, in one part in the report, where he had to be commended, and in the other, to congratulate. Why would that be wrong? I don't understand that. Where things were good, we praised him, where they were bad, we destroyed him. And so it's probably right that we do it in the future. In parliamentary democracy, political parties are at the heart of parliamentary work. Their task is to take appropriate decisions in the design, promotion and direction of state policy. For this reason, this so-called privileged position of political parties from them, both in the Government and in the National Assembly, requires a high level of responsibility, transparency, openness and stability in the field of legislative and executive power. At the same time, it is the task of the ruling coalition and thus the responsibility to ensure that the system of all branches of government works because it means that the legislative and executive authorities must create quality conditions, namely legislation, and a positive climate for the work of an independent judiciary. How effective individual authority will then be in its work, depending, of course, on itself and its knowledge, on the staff it has at its disposal, and on the level of moral and ethical values of individuals operating in these environments. And the system of power-sharing is also a key aspect for the effective work of the intelligence and police services and especially in the work relating to the implementation of specific investigative measures and, of course, the supervision in this area. On the other hand, there must be effective sanctions for political abuses or for attempts at political abuse of intelligence and police services, particularly in the part relating to covert investigative measures. If the authorities are preventing or obstructing such control, which unfortunately has been happening in the last period, then we can only talk about the seeming control that we have witnessed in the past. In such a case, parliamentary supervision represents only one cover, a feeling in the public that services with exceptional powers are controlled and therefore no abuse occurs. Such control, Your Honor, is worse than it would have been. Today, after this debate, I have the feeling that some, especially from the ruling coalition, want to go to the National Assembly of this kind of control; to come with a report that would be a cover that would not draw attention to those things that might be problematic, with good intentions, to eliminate the mechanisms that create these problems, but to treat the flat-rate report in a kind of calm way, as legislation does. I do not think we should allow this because effective control of these services is important not only from a political point of view but also from the point of view of protecting citizens' rights. The political oversight carried out by the parliamentary commission in the field of the work of the intelligence and security services, i.e. the work of the police, assesses the success of the objectives and the legality of the procedures it seeks to achieve with the assistance of the various authorities, the police and the intelligence and security services. Due to the specific powers under which they may interfere with rights and freedoms, these services, in particular the police, are always and will always be exposed to possible abuses and, on the other hand, can effectively control their tasks because of individual political interests, and therefore, it is crucial to ensure the proper and responsible work of the intelligence and security authorities, in addition to a sound system of values and high professionalism, the responsibility of the government to be an individual political party or group not to subordinate these services. It is the responsibility of the National Assembly, which, through its support for parliamentary control, expresses appropriate criticism and signals to the supervised services and the government, as well as to us, to the political parties themselves, to prevent attempts to abuse institutions for personal, party or political purposes within our midst. This is a task that we should accomplish and that, in the way that we have witnessed to him today, we will obviously not achieve. The Commission has been extremely careful in the implementation of parliamentary supervision, particularly in the part concerning the application of specific investigation measures, and has been careful not to make the implementation of the surveillance risk affecting the operational work of the services, as this could reduce their effectiveness. On the other hand, we have seen that these services are increasingly being used in actions that are disproportionate to the nature or gravity of the crime they are investigating. And there was a lot of talk about that today, too, about proportionality. Moreover, it has been shown that in individual forecasting procedures, individual offences are classified as more difficult only to carry out individual covert investigation measures which could not be carried out in the event of a smaller qualification. Any State that seeks to protect human rights and, on the other hand, to effectively combat crime that threatens human rights in all areas, financial, economic, health, scientific, etc., must create clear conditions for the application of measures and its borders and a method of control that will prevent or expose abuses by authorities empowered to use specific investigation measures or forms of data acquisition. When the Commission speaks of abuses, it does not think of the professional work of the competent authorities in particular, but rather of preventing politically motivated influences, which are then reflected in the poor professional work of the body or its individuals and, of course, in the final stage, do not provide efficiency in the investigation of criminal offences. The pleonazem of predictive procedures is a deviation that shows that virtually everyone today can be the subject of a predictive procedure, enough is enough to be written against him by an anonymous person. It is the duty of the Commission to react to preventive action and the repressive way in which these services operate in dubious cases. The alert or minimum doubt of the Commission should be an alarm for supervised institutions and their direct and indirect leaders. In our work, I must say that, at least in 2009, we have witnessed the reduction or negation of this role, mainly by the Minister of the Interior, who has repeatedly tried to pin on us the label on the policy of control, but unfortunately we are also witnessing this today by individual Members of the ruling coalition. In conclusion, the Commission has proposed views and conclusions resulting from what it saw in 2009, some of which you have clearly misread or read intentionally. We did not talk about mass phenomena when it comes to these deviations, if they were really mass phenomena, then it would be a really red-level alarm, but we talked about individual phenomena, which are extremely dangerous. They are extremely dangerous because they are able to establish a model of action that will be removed from any control on the one hand and will not, on the other hand, be in the function that establishes these institutions and gives them special powers and responsibilities. We therefore propose to adopt two decisions by the National Assembly; for the first time, the National Assembly proposes to the Government to ensure better supervision in the work relating to the use of disguised investigative measures in cases where proceedings against a supervised person are stopped or closed without the lodging of a criminal complaint when the measures already taken are within the executive branch, the police and partly the prosecution, and in this case legal certainty are not provided for by the court, since the procedure is already closed. In such cases, it is essential that the National Assembly on such measures be provided with full control through a parliamentary commission which is not currently available. Secondly, the National Assembly notes that the regulatory arrangements for the use of disguised investigation measures do not prevent the possibility of abuse of their application, since in individual cases they do not respect the principle of proportionality, rationality and efficiency, and therefore expect the competent authorities to interpret and apply legislation restrictively and with a view to detecting perpetrators of criminal offences and at the same time to prevent political distortions that occur in individual cases through extensive interpretation of the application. These are the conclusions that I must say personally, but I believe that many others do not, I do not understand why you will reject them, because you deny not only the role of this parliamentary supervisory commission, but you also deny the role of the whole Parliament as institutions for the control of repressive authorities with special powers and responsibilities. By this negation, you give a clear signal to those who have these powers to be able to be punished in the future, without sanctions and without fear, so that they may be violated in the event of a violation of any sanctions. This creates an extremely dangerous practice which, at the end of the phase, could lead to significantly less efficiency in the prosecution of the worst crimes and, on the other hand, allow an institutional framework for the possibility of abuse, which is now relatively low, but can be extended over a certain period. I think it would be necessary for these decisions to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The National Assembly will vote on the draft positions and decisions submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services tomorrow, 4 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY – FIRST REFERENCE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE REFERENCE LAW AND HUMAN INITIATIVES UNDER THE REFERENCE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 45 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill, Mag. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u50	Your Honor! A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the bill's proponents, which implements one of the basic provisions of the coalition contract – it is interesting that we had to propose it from the opposition – and at the same time it also realizes what is available to the public, for example, in one of the central newspapers, a survey that reflects approximately two-thirds of the public support for the proposed solution. It therefore introduces a solution so that all referendums can be decided on the same day. Slovenia, as an independent state, was founded on a referendum decision, a direct decision of the people on the plebiscite, and it is logical that the referendum as an institution is incorporated into the Constitution as an extremely important democratic institution. Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia sets it even before indirect forms of exercise of authority. If I quote: "In Slovenia, the power of the people is exercised directly and in accordance with the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." So, directly, the referendum decision itself puts the constitution first. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot understand all the desire to limit the right to a referendum, including the idea of a quorum that is being revived again and again, while refusing to allow the referendum issue to be resolved in such a way that its implementation is fully democratic but at the same time cheaper. This can be achieved through a simple proposal that all proposals for a referendum take place on the same day in a year to introduce a referendum day as a rule. Even now, the regulation of the last amendment of the previous mandate allows for several referendums to be held on the same day, which can therefore be postponed slightly, but is necessary for the adoption of this decision by a two-thirds majority of the Members and Members present. As a principle, however, the law now in force places an immediate invitation to tender and an immediate vote in the referendum. Now, in fact, with this proposal, we simply turn this around to lay down the rule that it is one referendum day of the year, so that all the referendums are gathered and voted on at the same time, which is reasonable, rational and democratic. On the other hand, this proposal still retains the possibility that a two-thirds majority will also define a faster vote in cases where there are legitimate reasons for this. For example, when it comes to a law that is urgently needed, because of any, for a country, necessary matters, to settle anything that does not allow a delay or a waiting period for a year. In our view, it is not possible to write down any principle which is governed by this law, for example, by a rapid procedure, because in this country it was also the case that laws were adopted as urgent laws in the quick procedure, which were solely intended to increase the profits of casinos in the Slovenian territory. In such a case, of course, it is not in our belief that it is actually a matter of public interest, but of purely ordinary abuse of law. As it is said, our proposal is nothing more than the implementation of a coalition agreement, which I quote: "The coalition partners will check the possibility of finding a broad enough consensus to change the referendum regime, it is said that a referendum based on a human initiative will be introduced, a quorum for the validity of the referendum. All referendums on the same day of the year." This is a valid coalition treaty, interesting to realize in a work where consensus is obviously possible, right in the opposition. I would like to point out that, in the last term, for example, Mr Kek, now Ambassador Zares, has proposed a similar solution – then on behalf of Asa, today this is an integral part of Zares – and that Mr Zoran Jankovic also responded positively to the proposal for a referendum day. The fact is, therefore, that this is an extremely wide spectrum of different political forces, where there is agreement that one referendum day is justified. It is only a matter of whether there is enough goodwill in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Tina Terzan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! The current regime proposed by the proposers provides that from the date of the call for a referendum until the date of the vote shall not be less than 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, from which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. The current regime also contains the possibility of some kind of referendum day. Indeed, it is a decision in the hands of two-thirds of the Members present. Such arrangements are, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, more acceptable than the proposed regime. The proposed amendment could lead to delays in the legislative process and make it impossible for the legislator to be effective, since some laws could not enter into force for one year and at least half a year after its adoption. According to the Government, the main drawback of the bill is that it does not provide for any exceptions when a referendum could also be concluded six months before the second week in May. This is an expert question on which exceptions this should be, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may at first glance list at least three: the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the harmonisation of legislation with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and with laws adopted under the urgent procedure. It is difficult to imagine that, for example, a law passed for the defence of the State or a law passed for the purpose of eliminating natural disasters will enter into force in the extreme case even more than a year after its adoption. A complex situation would also arise if the law on which the referendum would be proposed would eliminate the unconstitutional consequences. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly failed to allow a referendum in situations where the law on which the referendum is required would have been passed in a constitutionally consistent manner by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the constitutionality would have continued to exist, and if the law in the referendum had not been confirmed, it would not have been possible to abolish it within one year. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the situation that would have arisen if the proposed regime had been adopted would have had even worse consequences as the law would have to wait for the referendum first one year and then, if the law had been rejected at the referendum, it would not have been possible to amend the other provisions for another year. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed solution would also lead to a jump-starting increase in the number of referendums, as there would no longer be responsibility for the high costs of the referendum, which has so far contributed to a certain minimum self-censorship. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a large or even excessive number of referendum issues that would be decided on the same day would not contribute to transparency of voting, awareness of the content of the issues and increased participation in the vote. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the seriousness of the economic situation in which the Republic of Slovenia is located and is taking a number of measures to reduce the use of budgetary resources, but considers that the savings of the proposed solution would not be proportionate to the damage that could have occurred due to congestion. The government is aware of the shortcomings of the current regime and is therefore actively preparing improvements to the existing regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Club, Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u54	Your Honor! The proposed bill appears to be simple, short, three articles, two substantive and one formal. On the other hand, it is also a great trap: with the so-called two-thirds majority, we could also change these things, as set out in Article 2 of the Law, but we know the reality of the National Assembly and we probably know what that question means. When we consider the arguments that this referendum day would be a relief for that matter, on the one hand, an excessive number of referendums, on the other hand, on the side of the spending of taxpayers' money, we must ask ourselves, as the chairman of the lower house of the English Parliament asked himself 10 days ago, when he openly expressed the surprise that we have brought Parliamentarianism to such a low level in the Republic of Slovenia that there is no confidence and even Members themselves are actually taking the lead in the call for a referendum on some of the issues that the National Assembly should decide on which it has powers. I'm sure it's irresponsible to do this, put it to the electorate, voters are smart, and they'll be able to make decisions and so on. Here a number of arguments have already been said today, even though they are known that when you have many questions on the table from different areas, there is also the possibility that decisions are inquality. The question is whether it is possible to effectively exercise authority, any government, if there is a possibility in law to stop laws, even if there is a referendum, even when it comes to natural, fundamental accidents, when it comes to eliminating consequences, when laws are adopted and they could stand, so to speak, for a year, but at least for at least half a year, the reaction must be immediate and as soon as possible. Thus, knowing the issue of the referendum and also certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in the past and ordering that the National Assembly should amend the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and settle certain matters differently; in particular, when it comes to questions about what is at the referendum, what should not be the subject of a decision when it comes to the material situation of the State, when it comes to certain matters relating to human rights and other matters. Thus, despite this, so to speak, well-intentionedness, if I understand correctly, and the likeness of this law, the Members of the Liberal Democracy will not support it. We believe, however, that if there is only one part of the regulation that it can be regulated in the part where other issues will be on the agenda. After all, there are also current proposals to amend the Constitution, which are so-called current, and here is the space enough for the arguments to be faced and to adopt such a change of law, which will give people the faith that Parliament, but – because there is the biggest problem that Members are too often in the role of proposing – performs a responsible task and only in rare cases when some important issues are involved, can the electorate in particular request a referendum and achieve it by appropriate procedure. I therefore expect that discussions on constitutional changes and also on this law will continue and then we will support all initiatives that will go in the direction of such rationalisation, more effective decision-making, as well as unification on one day, if there must be more referendums and if there must be a referendum every year, which is not necessarily a referendum every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u56	Dear, good-bye! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we have discussed and highlighted several dilemmas over the question of a single date in a year, rationalisation of costs and dilemma, which will likely most likely appear as an argument against, if this would lead to a significant delay in the adoption of certain emergency laws in a year or even two if the law were to be rejected, and it would take another year to wait for a new law. However, this proposal, although made up of a few modest articles, also allows for this exceptional situation, this is also the response of a representative of the Government, in fact, so that in certain cases with a 2/3 majority, a specific date could be set for these cases, when it comes to urgent matters, but in addition to this day, another special referendum. It is likely that such situations will be very rare, but if they occur, this is an option. Further to the adoption process, this time-limit for this special date may be changed, but only the right of all citizens and citizens to participate directly in management should not be limited. The possible tightening of the conditions for the implementation of the referendum would mean narrowing the rights of citizens and citizens and their directly elected representatives. Another summary of the material to this law, to explain. In modern parliamentary systems, as also established in Slovenia, the executive power, the government, elects Parliament. The government bases its work on the majority it has in Parliament. In practice, however, this regime has a weak point, because it has resulted in the permanent and direct control of Parliament over the work of the executive branch of power no longer functioning as the founders of the idea of mutual control and the balance between the various branches of government represented – we are talking about the division of power between legislation and enforcement, and this executive power is no longer called as it used to be – they have carried out a world that I think was a better term – but a government; in fact, the government is in some way also a parliament. Even worse, if I say that power is, in fact, concentrated in the hands of a narrow circle of political Februarys, which also control their customers and through them do the will both in the government and in Parliament. The referendum is just one such system, which in fact establishes direct control and limitation of power, and therefore is a value that should not be derogated from in the long term. We can talk about conditions, but the very conditions that are in force today are very restrictive, restrictive, so many signatures can't be collected, and there must be a real reason and there is no way that people can be manipulated into coming to sign. Unfortunately, reforms have gone the wrong way, and that's what people are experiencing, and that's why they're going. People can be very manipulated, but this is not to be understood in this direction, that we will underestimate people, that they do not know what is good and what is not, for in the long run it will only turn out. Costs, which is a key problem, and that is why we have gone into this proposal one date, four to five million euros. However, we must not take these costs as an argument for limiting and reducing the participation of citizens and citizens in decision-making, i.e. also to our constitutional right. So the solution is one day a year and the possibility that we can really rephrase it in the next phase, but I fear that the law will not be adopted, but if it does, there is also a possibility that, in exceptional cases, when it is necessary for the law to be adopted more quickly, we can also have a special date.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u58	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! Even in recent times, although not for the first time, there have been many different views and views in public between citizens and citizens, as well as among the professional public, whether the referendum issues in our constitution and legislation are properly regulated or not. I would hope to claim that there is very little or exceptionally someone who thought that the arrangement was appropriate. Most think that the current regime is worth seriously checking, but I agree that the guidelines can be different from those of individual experts, especially in the public opinion polls that have been carried out in this regard. This, among other things, has led coalition Members and Members to think, after agreement in the Government, that when certain referendums are announced, one of these referendums will also hold an advisory referendum on people's views on the possible amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. We have had such a proposal prepared and we have presented it to the public, you know it because it has also been made public. Its basic ideas were to narrow down the number of applicants to return to constitutional arrangements in cases where it is not possible to call for a referendum and to require a certain quorum for the validity of the decision. Politically, these proposals were not accepted by the public with the greatest satisfaction, particularly by some opposition parties, but the professional public, who responded, felt that the proposals were too rigid and consistent and would still allow for unnecessary implementation of the referendums. I will not say that in relation to this proposal, but in approximately the same period of time, there was also a proposal signed by Mr Tanko first to amend the Referendum and Human Initiative Act in such a way as to set a referendum day, except by a decision of a two-thirds majority, two. I say that this has taken place at the same time or at the same time, because it can be concluded that this has also been an experiment, but we may be able to resolve this issue before the consultation referendum. Later, perhaps also because of the proposal made by this law, the Government decided, with the participation of coalition parliamentary groups and parties, to prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement article 90 of the Constitution on the referendum. The ideas on this and the concrete proposals that would not have come to the National Assembly are ready, and, in my opinion, they will be in the next week's debate, because several times this debate has already been, in the Government, and is designed as a proposal by the Government for constitutional change. With regard to the proposed law of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and other parliamentary groups or Members, it is probably only right to say that, in our conduct, the DeSUS Members who signed this proposal later withdrew their signatures, regardless of what they formally mean, said that their political will was no longer in line with the content enshrined in this Act and that we are discussing it today. In opening, I would like to point out that we will not support him in the Group of the Socialist Party. We will not support it because we think there are many others or that there are also many other issues that we need to discuss in relation to referendum legislation and because it is honest and right to say what this proposal really means. The government tried to describe this in its written opinions and today, but it also wanted to be friendly to the applicants and did not say it exactly as it did. But this really means that all the referendums that will be proposed at that time will normally be held once a year. If the second Sunday is in May, let's say May 10th, then all the laws that will be passed any day after May 10th will go to the referendum on May 10th. You all know that in our legal system, the law enters into force when it is published. You all know that the referendum keeps the publication of the law and that the president of the law cannot publish it in the Official Gazette. This practically means that, in principle, as is the case in the law, one year would not apply laws that were adopted immediately after the date of the second week in May. What does that mean? In order to be important, less important – I will not say that all the laws we adopt are important and exceptional and must be valid the next day, but among them there are certainly many of them, and most of all there are debates between citizens and citizens about those laws that are more important, political and their situation. And they are many times so that their implementation is necessary as soon as possible. Therefore, to take a decision that, as a rule, at least a year should not occur unless a referendum is reached and the law at the referendum is not confirmed, because in this case its entry into force cannot be adopted until the following year, that is to say at least a year, maybe two years of legislation adopted by Parliament will not be in force. You're going to object to me that an exception and a two-thirds majority can be set at six months. Really, it's written that way, let me ask. Is 6 months for an important marriage a short time, or would it be right to enforce an important marriage before, rather than just after 6 months? As a first question. And second. Do you really believe that it will be so easy in the political situation in the National Assembly and, as a rule, that no two-thirds majority, I say, a political option or a group that at some point constituted a ruling coalition, had, or would this two-thirds majority really be able to design so easily that it would then ensure that only a six-month but not a one-year period would be in place? I don't believe it, and from practice here in the National Assembly we know that's not true. If the interest is political so that no law can be enforced, then this two-thirds majority will not. It will be said that we respect the law and will decide on it in a year, regardless of the consequences that may be severe for the country. I systematically ask one question, which – at least I – I also have to say as a lawyer and a politician – I think we are trying to display it objectively. Today, too, the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution has already been quoted, which is certainly important in its content and says: "In Slovenia, the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." I have been convinced by all the comments made by experts regarding this article that it is an equivalent exercise of authority, that it is not directly favoured because it is first written and that the other means of exercising power are not subordinated to the first direct one, especially because we also have a clearly divided parliamentary system in the provisions of the Constitution. And because in the parliamentary system, we also have a clearly defined role in the legislative function of Parliament, and as a rule, laws are passed in Parliament, not through direct decision-making at the referendum. Therefore, it would be wrong if, in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution, a referendum were to be lifted in any way or substantially reduced. Just to say that a more realistic provision on the referendum repeals Article 3 of the Constitution or takes the right of citizens and citizens to decide is not true. It takes, we can say, the right of Parliament. I think that we must also draw a proper line between the role that Parliament has and the responsibility that Parliament has on the one hand and the role and responsibility that we want to play through the referendum. In legal systems in other countries where they have it, they do not have it everywhere, and in practice they do not make it very often, but in some places they do not have it defined in such a way as to reduce the role of Parliament, except in the Swiss Canton system, where cantons do indeed make all the more important decisions through referendums. I think it is useful and right that we are discussing the issue of the referendum, if possible, correctly, to address these discussions also on the basis of a proposal or proposals already in the public eye and those submitted by the Government to the Constitutional Commission of our National Assembly, but to find together that the proposal, as it has been submitted, would constitute a major intervention in the legislative function of Parliament, a major intervention in the effective exercise of the power that Parliament has – not only because it is also an enforceable, judicial authority and also directly of citizens and citizens – and that proposals, as they are prepared in this law, do not correspond to those objectives and interests and cannot be supported. Let me just say one thing. Whenever I myself discussed the problems of the referendum, I have always, even when there were suggestions and questions, why the referendum again, it costs, said that the costs for the referendum could not be a fundamental issue. When it comes to the realization of human will and the proper implementation of the provisions of the referendum, then the cost of the referendum is one of the questions, but not the only and most important. Not even if we give him up or try to save him, we give him up! Today, we have this solution, whether this proposal would make great savings, such as would be worth comparing with systemic problems, let us assess for ourselves. However, I would just like to say that there will be some correct information: in my behaviour, the cost for the second, third and next referendum on the same day is not saved in the entire amount, but in the approximately poor half. So let's at least say this when we talk about a one-time referendum costing some less than four million, 3.75 million there was a referendum on the arbitration agreement, then the second referendum is not free, but it costs about half of that amount. The same applies then to any third, fourth and further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Respectable colleague, fellows! Whenever we talk about the drafting of the referendum, we run into the question of what the Institute of the Referendum is intended for and how we feel about this institution. It's a matter of authority, of who's finally making the decision. The absolute autocratic dictatorship is not good for citizens. This is also demonstrated by the European experience of the previous century. Even in the Arab world, dictatorship no longer works. Each branch of power, legislative, executive, judicial, must have restrictions, brakes, controls. Above all the branches of power, the people who exercise their power indirectly, through elections, and directly, through a referendum, are under our Constitution. To decide at the referendum is the fundamental right of the Slovenian people. We could say that with this right Slovenian statehood stands and falls, as it is based on the plebiscite result of the Slovenian people's referendum decision on Slovenia's independence 20 years ago. Governmentally, this is an executive policy, which is supervised or restricted by the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court and the referendum. However, where the majority in the National Assembly is subordinated to or aligned with the ruling policy, which is normal and normal, the Constitutional Court is servile to government requirements, which is not normal and is increasingly normal in Slovenia, the referendum is the only lever that citizens can prevent from bringing the country into a state that we do not want. Where a referendum on a ruling policy is unpleasant and disturbing, the right to a referendum is particularly threatened. In such cases, opponents of the referendum find themselves detracting from the referendum result at the time of low participation, the apparent abuse of referendum law, the talk that we have too many referendums and that Members should make their own decisions, and the conviction that it is a pure waste of taxpayer money. The only counter-referendum finding worth serious consideration is too often the costs of the referendum and perhaps too much attention in referendum campaigns in case of a referendum every few months. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party and other co-signers propose that we reduce the costs without reducing the standard of constitutional right to referendum. We are proposing a certain referendum day in a year on which we could decide on several referendum issues. In the event that a final referendum decision is to be taken as soon as possible, we propose that the National Assembly, with a two-thirds majority of those present, appoint a single referendum for another day. As a referendum day, we propose a second Sunday in May. It is clear, however, that it is a matter of further discussion and amendment, which day of the year should be most appropriate as a referendum day. Given that a number of coalition members have already heard initiatives to set up a special referendum day and that even in the coalition agreement, the government coalition has indicated that coalition partners will check the possibility of setting up a specific referendum day in the year, we expect you to support and allow for further consideration and possible complementarity in the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Initially, it might be recalled that since 1991 we have had almost a hundred referendum initiatives in Slovenia, and in 20 years we have been 100 initiatives, which marks the very top of the European countries, and the referendums that have been held have been a good tenth. And the fact that the rest of the referendum arrangements are still necessary is obvious and clear to everyone, but there are many proposals, of course, to prevent the abuse of this institution that we have been facing recently. It seems to us that the Institute of the Referendum itself has become a hostage of various interests and, above all, a blockade to the legislative process. Not to be misunderstood, in the Zares-New Policy Group, we are still convinced that it represents a referendum of one of the foundations of direct democracy and of the people, or of a qualified candidate of 40,000 voters, we do not want to prevent participation in the referendum and the call for tenders, nor do we, of course, vote on these individual laws that come to the referendum. However, the fact is that the current regime – also compared to other European countries that know this institution – is not the best and that different and better solutions are essential. This opinion is also joined by a number of distinguished experts, lawyers who point out the necessity of amending referendum legislation. For example, Professor Kavčič, who claims that the right to a referendum in Slovenia is broad than only a few in Europe; with the exception of Switzerland, it would be difficult to find a country with more democratic standards for direct democracy. This is particularly evident from the number of candidates who can propose a referendum. This is, in short, the National Assembly with a majority, a third of the Members, the State Council and 40,000 voters. As far as voters are concerned, there is no doubt that they have this right; at the end of the day, 40,000 voters are also in the light of the average participation in elections and the votes needed to enter parliament, the number of votes that ensure to each party that it is a parliamentary party. So this number seems to be understandable, maybe if participation is smaller, it's 35, if it's greater than 50; but here we are. And as it has been heard today from behind this booth, 40,000 voters are not coughing, it is necessary to make a good effort, the topic must be real and people should be able to mine and convince that this is something that is important to them and that they are giving their signature for the referendum to be signed. What about the other applicants? In addition to Slovenia, the only Danish country that knows the so-called opposition referendum is the referendum at the request of a minority of Members. All right, we're just one of the few, of course, I'd like to get a summary of other solutions in Danish, let's say that the congregation can be a large or that 20,000 citizens are a minimum standard for municipalities, that social benefits are very high, but, of course, in Denmark we don't get that. We take it solely that we know the opposition referendum, although of course every serious party sitting here in Parliament is probably able to interest 40,000 voters in giving out their signature. Then we have the State Council as our proponent. The relevance of him as a proposer is also being discussed. After all, the National Assembly, with a simple majority, can also call a referendum; I don't know, maybe two-thirds would be more meaningful – with a simple majority, laws are passed – if these are really big decisions, and they were in our history, for example, in addition to this own country, let's just say three more: entering NATO, entering the European Union and the last arbitration referendum. These are all such topics, which also receive two-thirds support in such a clarified parliament that we say so. In short, many candidates for the referendum are aware of our legislation, more than others. In addition, Professor Kavčič points out that due to the ease of availability of the referendum, in particular to this minority of Members, the referendum has been taken over by opposition parties in recent times, to say the least. And it is no longer really about controlling the electorate and the electorate over executive power, but it is mainly about blocking the minority in Parliament's decisions taken by the majority. In our view, the reasons for the introduction of the law are not such that they do not hold back. Thus, opposition parties in the institution of the referendum use and abuse as a weapon of pressure against the coalition for various issues, including those that are not suitable for referendum decision-making or lead to unconstitutional consequences. In this too, we have had not only one such case. In short, this rare privilege, which only Denmark knows in addition to Slovenia, is abused in a way that is not constitutionally permissible. Such an arrangement can be democratic, but in the opinion of Mr Kavčič in a specific environment it will enable political populism. I think that there is no such specific environment in Denmark; the Slovenian environment is the one that causes great populism and demagogicism with regard to this institute. And speaking of demagogies, let me go back to the law proposed by a group of opposition Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The proposers propose the introduction of the so-called referendum day. As has been rightly said, not only colleague Kek, but I myself proposed a referendum day to the State Council Commission years ago, or at that time on the third Sunday in December, because it is in some way an anniversary of the referendum on which this country stands, and it is also a pre-godly time when we think a lot about ourselves and our family, our neighbors, our broader surroundings and therefore perhaps the most emotionally appropriate time to resolve matters of common importance. To the end, however, what was the fate of that initiative: that the state councillors, including those with SDS membership cards, did not support this initiative. Well, times have apparently changed, or the short - term political benefits now suggest a different attitude. In short, a referendum day would mean that, after this proposal, the second Sunday in May would be the day of the vote, two thirds, as has been said, and Members could also be given a second day of voting, but only if that day were more than 6 months away from that day of voting, from the second week in May. Such a solution would, in the opinion of the proposers, help to reduce the costs of referenda and to raise awareness of the content of the issue and to increase participation in the referendum. It should be noted that the current regime, which they propose to amend, provides that, from the date of the referendum to the date of the vote, the date of the vote shall not exceed, as you know, less than 30 days and no more than one year, the date of the vote, from which more than 45 days, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. Thus, the regulation already in force contains such a possibility for a referendum day to take place, but it is true that the decision is in the hands of two-thirds of the Members present, and this would still remain for this possible second referendum day, which is foreseen by the law before us. On the basis of this, we believe that the referendum day, as proposed by the opposition Members, is already properly regulated by legislation and that the proposal is consequently ineffective and unnecessary. Not only could the current law to a certain extent regulate this subject, but, inter alia, the adoption of such a law, as has been said in the Government's position, could lead to counter-constitutional consequences, so that not only one, two years could not be adopted in the form that was already confirmed in the National Assembly, and the question of the reasonableness of waiting at least half a year before 6 May would arise, if it were necessary - even a two-thirds majority of Members half a year before 6 May could not determine a referendum day, although this would, for example, be necessary to bring the legislation into line with the European Union's legal order or to implement the provisions or decisions of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proponents want this proposal, which is supposed to go towards reducing costs, to deceive citizens in particular, because it is clear to us all what economic and social conditions we are in today, but we also know how our legislative system works and that laws must be enforced. They forget, at least most of them, that they are primarily those who constantly demand referendums, as they say, those opposition, minorities with 30 signatures of Members, and these are matters that are not even the subject of broader social questions or are questions that are quite professional and can be answered primarily by the profession. However, it is not a matter of blinding one referendum day a year to contribute significantly to a higher participation in the referendum itself. All data show that referendum abstinence is on average higher than in other countries. Comparing this to the fact that there are several referendums in our country and that we have more qualified candidates, we can also answer why this is the case. It is also important to ask whether, for example, the majority decision in the referendum, where participation was 30%, was more relevant than the will of the National Assembly, which was elected by the other majority – for example, that there was about 60% participation in the elections. How can we weigh this legitimacy, directly and indirectly, which is twice as indirect — as direct, sorry. We therefore ask ourselves in the Member State whether the applicant has even considered the damage that could have been caused by delays in the legislative process and the resulting inefficiencies of the legislator, whether it is just a kind of move that is not technically justified. At the same time, of course, it must be said that it is not true what was heard as a result of this speech, that two thirds of the people agree with the proposal of this law. Two-thirds of people probably agree that they would have less costs at the referendum – of course, that's for sure!, If you simply ask them if you are on a referendum day, people will say that, because no one wants to spend more than it is necessary. That's how we need to be more specific here. If it were true to listen to this idea of a referendum day, this could be done for consultation referendums. The consultation referendums are one that could wait six months. But if the bill's proponents really meant it, it would probably be possible for a referendum day, at least in the years when local elections, parliamentary elections, European elections, to say that then, even on the day of these elections, all the referendums, which are, so to speak, on the waiting line, on the waiting list, of course, can happen. We believe that because in reality the proposal does not intend to reach the required two-thirds quorum and that its submission was primarily for populist reasons. However, if the subsequent legislative referendum should also be considered a referendum day, then we must amend certain other provisions of the referendum legislation and introduce a system as they know it in Italy. In Italy, of course, the law can be decided after the law has already been adopted and is in force. This would put a referendum day in a new light, but the proponents did not think about these finesse. The law is short and, of course, it is not true that, for example, the Municipality of Ljubljana agrees with it. As I read their letter, they mainly made comments on the proposal for a law, and these comments are about as much as the law itself. So much for the purity, clarity and facts that should, of course, be given from this pay phone. We will not support the new policy of the bill in the Parliamentary Group. However, we will be pleased to examine all the proposals that would effectively, without unconstitutional consequences, be organised by the Institute of the Referendum and, above all, prevent the possible grading of this institution, because the fact is that the current exploitation of this institution has been received in this direction, in the direction of grading the Institute of the Referendum. Therefore, the right place is, of course, a constitutional commission, a slightly longer debate, a little more professional, a little deeper; one that can in fact lead to a two-thirds consensus in this House, but for the sake of demagogies daily, this law is suitable for adoption – certainly not in our opinion in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we contributed our signatures to the amendment of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which is the main objective of this Act: to act rationally and in these times of crisis try to save the necessary resources for the country's ongoing operation. The referendum is a constitutional category, one of the highest forms of democracy and the most powerful instrument of direct co-decision between citizens and citizens. We also believe in the Slovenian People's Party that we must be responsible for the costs of such decision-making. We therefore also support a substantial change in the proposal, i.e. the introduction of a so-called referendum day on which several referendum issues could be decided at the same time. Reducing the cost of implementation will also lead to a reduction in the costs of the referendum campaign and, as a result, to more difficult work for us, policies, as we will have to put much more effort and knowledge into presenting the issues in detail to the voters and voters. If we look through the history of the independent state and all the referendums that have taken place at that time, statistically speaking, there is nowhere to say that we have had inflation in the referendums. On average, less than one per year is still a fully acceptable number. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are even more bitter about recent ideas and ideas, and in this place, our criticism flies to most coalition parties, how we would restrict this most democratic institution, somehow stifle it or try to tighten the conditions for its implementation. Therefore, in order to implement the compulsory quorum of participation, it would be necessary to have more Members' signatures for the invitation to tender and so on. With regard to the question of referendum legislation, it is essential for the Slovenian People's Party that we do not in any way restrict the Institute of Referendum. Although we are not impressed by the high number of referendums in the Slovenian People's Party, it is the task of us politicians to take decisions and take all the responsibility for them. The electorate and the electorate will decide later whether we have done our job satisfactorily or not. However, the referendum, as has already been said, remains the only effective form of direct control and limitation of power and therefore the value on which the democracy of our system depends in the long term. Therefore, maintaining the referendum without any restrictions as a fundamental democratic institution is even more justified. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legislation on the terms of the invitation to tender and the validity of the referendum decision are not to blame for the crisis and poor governance of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, consequently, for many of the referendums announced. After all, the referendum is also a constitutional right and a legitimate opportunity to prevent reckless and self-sufficient decisions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The referendum is not simply limited, but it is reasonable to consider rationalising the costs, their implementation, which is provided for in the law under consideration. The current situation of referendums in Slovenia undoubtedly reflects in an indirect way the dissatisfaction with the inability of the ruling elite to establish dialogue and try to seek a wider social consensus on individual issues and legal solutions. Certain topics and issues, due to their weight, nature and conflict, go beyond the legal and legitimate way in which individual legislation is adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and only by voting a coalition parliamentary majority. The current question of whether the cost of elections and referendums is justified is understandable in the face of difficult economic conditions and the growing public debt of the country. However, the State must save elsewhere, in its daily activities, in reducing unnecessary material costs, the administration, in the unnecessary waste at all levels of its operations, and by no means in the elimination of fundamental democratic instruments such as the referendum. All of these are instruments that are not self-evident, but are the result of a long-standing struggle for civil rights and the democratisation of powers whose eligibility cannot be measured by their costs. However, it is right that the whole policy of this aspect is also aware. I am afraid that we will again hear through the debate today that the law is not systematic, how it will block the adoption of laws, how it reduces or weakens the authority of law-makers and the legislative body and so on. However, a respected government, a respected coalition, we have taken a step forward, offered a stalemate, at least partly responded to the main criticism with a possible number of referendums in the future, that is the need to reduce costs. The other thing is why the number of referendums has grown so dense lately and whether it is bad referendum legislation or whether there is a problem elsewhere. No good government should fear referendums. By good work, by reasoning its decisions, by systematic approach to problems, we should be able to convince people that they are doing the right thing and that they are working for theirs or ours. However, if the proposer of legal solutions hastens with uncoordinated and repeatedly reckless solutions to parliamentary procedures, because they are supported by the coalition, as instructed, then there is no blame for this by referendum legislation. In such a case, the referendum requirement reflects the dissatisfaction of the majority. And if I mention one more thing that shows the duality of critics of the proposed law. At the beginning of this February, we also discussed amendments to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, following an emergency procedure and an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The coalition was in a hurry to amend the law, which from now on allows the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate more actively and in particular in the referendum campaign and even additional funds of some more than 100,000 euros for the needs of each referendum campaign directly from the budget. So, not in the direction of saving, but even the opposite, in the direction of increasing spending. With an entirely ordinary majority in the National Assembly, you have provided yourself with an additional opportunity to perform in public and additional budgetary resources. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are still responding to some concerns that some laws will have to wait on the table with the introduction of the referendum day and will not be in force. However, fundamental structural reforms in the country are still pending, and the current referendum legislation is still in force. However, the proposed law still allows for the possibility that if it were an urgent law that could not wait for a decision to be taken on the referendum day, that, because of the exceptional circumstances and possible negative consequences, we would be united here, in the National Assembly and with a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, we would sign an additional day available, just as we did in the invitation to a referendum on the arbitration agreement. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the bill. We want to see it in further consideration, because in the current situation it is necessary for Slovenia. We allow for certain cosmetic adjustments, legal harmonisations, but its basic idea of introducing a referendum day is that measure that can relieve the budget, but we continue to enforce the implementation of the most democratic way of deciding in a free democratic society. This will certainly not be an inflation of referendums, as the number of referendum issues is again on a given day, and again, it can be legally limited. The argument that people are having difficulty deciding on several issues in the referendum and that they are acting impulsively is a trickle, or even offensive, to citizens and citizens. The free decision of every full-year citizen and citizen is whether or not the referendum will take place and, after all, it is his free choice to which question he will identify and to which he does not. In this case, the policy objective is to offer the conditions and present and face the arguments. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we call on the entire National Assembly to pay particular attention to the state of public finances of our country and to support the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law is clearly extremely attractive at first sight, as it simply provides for only one referendum day a year, which practically means one annual referendum or several referendums, in May. This proposal is also welcome from a financial point of view, since the possible legislativeisation of this proposal would represent a lower cost to the State, assuming that the State is obliged to carry out several referendums within one year. This proposal is also welcome from the point of view of citizens and citizens, as the electoral beneficiaries would only go to the polls once a year and speak about all the referendum issues that have been raised in one year. In the wake of the flood of referendums announced, we, the DeSUS Members, liked it, so we signed it ourselves. However, regardless of the likeness of this idea, this thing is just not so simple in terms of, let us set a referendum day and thus all things will be resolved. That is why we have withdrawn our signatures to the bill. The reason for the withdrawal of signatures, and therefore for the negative opinion of the amendment on our part, is, in spite of our view, that the referendum regime is not good, that the proposal itself is extremely incomplete and not feasible. The referendum as an institute of universal voting is of paramount importance. At the final stage, our Republic of Slovenia was created on the basis of a referendum, as it represents a means of limiting power and is also considered a form of division of power. Therefore, any intervention in the organisation of this institution should be carried out on the basis of serious considerations without undue interference with the right of referendum and also with regard to the sole effect of these changes on the application and application of, for example, laws which are the subject of a referendum decision. And the latter is the reason that such a defined law would not be feasible in practice or would cause significant problems, since the application or application of a law would be practically frozen if the latter was time bound to a certain period or date. This could lead to significant problems of both a systemic nature and the exercise of individual rights and obligations. There is no dispute among Members that the Institute of the Referendum needs to be finalized, but it is necessary to approach this issue in an integrated manner, with further proposals that will be legally and politically acceptable. A special working group of Members and Members is also set up to this end. Another problem we see when reading this proposal is that if people suddenly had many referendums, they would be confused by floods of leaves and surrounding areas. The third issue that is emerging is the implementation of the referendum campaign. If there were more referendums, of course this would be focused on the days before the referendum itself, and if there were more of these, there would no longer be so much room to present opinions "for" and "against". In short, we are convinced by DeSUS Members that it is necessary to approach the modification of the Institute of Referendum in terms of preventing its abuses, and we hope that we will achieve a reasonable common consensus in this regard. This idea of a referendum day is not acceptable to us for all these reasons. That's why we're not going to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u68	Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this determination of the referendum day, as we are, after all, co-signers of the bill. Here the question arises to man why the law was supported by colleagues from DeSUS and then they withdrew, because they say that their political will is no longer in line with the proposal, then we ask ourselves whether they are thinking or not thinking or trading after, as the coalition says, withdraw or approach certain solutions or proposals. I think and in our client we think the introduction of a referendum day is a smart thing. After all, if we look at what laws we are adopting and how we are adopting certain laws, we can see that there is nothing necessary in Slovenia, no law is so necessary that we should adopt it on the nose, because in this case we would adopt some laws at the beginning of the current mandate, but not that we will adopt them after two and a half years, and then, of course, we will give them a sign of secrecy, confidentiality, speed, urgency, reduced procedure and not of anything else. It is obvious, then, that there would be no special damage if a year had been allowed to wait for a specific law to be passed or, in some cases, only half a year. And there's one thing. Not all marriages go to a referendum. It's just here and there. To date, we had on average one referendum per year. There are several more this year, and there'll probably be more. But it would make sense that they're all for one day. Funding is spent on a referendum of around €4.5 million, up to €5 million, something like that. That is to say, if we had two referendums on the same day, we would have saved 5 million euros. If we had three, we'd save 10 million euros. I do not agree with some colleagues saying that savings are only about half of that money. One wonders whether this means that the human factor, those people sitting there, is on voters who vote for the referendum, or then those people cost 2.5 million euros. Then you ask yourself in this loving country as it is, or maybe it doesn't go to anyone else in the pocket of these 2.5 million euros -- because it's not possible for some people to make such enormous money to sit there and wait for what's going to happen. Of course, the Government has written opinions that there are three issues that need to be addressed here: bringing legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, and one wonders whether we have really transferred everything to Europe, whether we really no longer have autonomy, independence and sovereignty, or whether we have already been sold so deeply to the European Union that we have no right to judge our own affairs. As it appears, we are sold and will be sold even more; more is sold from day to day. After all, if we look at it, now the Croats want to buy Mercator – and will Pahor do anything? I don't know. I don't think so. In Israel we had a joint presentation of the tourist offer of Croatia and Slovenia – that no one would think that Slovenia was first, we only paid – and we will have in South Korea the presentation of Croatia and Slovenia again in the same way, so that the question of if even the Slovenian flag hangs there. And now the Croats are supposed to buy Mercator – why? Only in order for Croats to be able to destroy the Slovenian manufacturing industry will some tycoons who have already stolen quite a bit in Slovenia, but they will be further rewarded if any of the gentlemen from the Government fall into their pockets, they will only be happy. They will be happy anyway because they will be able to worship the Croats as they have done all the time. The other issue is that the Government is asking itself here and that legislation needs to be aligned with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court judges and advises, the Constitutional Court does not have the right to request changes to the law. The National Assembly is a legislative body and the National Assembly has the right to say to the Constitutional Court: no, we will consider and we will do otherwise. This is our right. It is true that many constitutional judges, many coalition gentlemen, think that the Constitutional Court is everything else, some or most of them even think that this is some continuation of the Communist Party's Communist Central Committee, but it is not. The Constitutional Court is a mere Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we have been made and chosen according to political standards. These political criteria are poor and these constitutional judges do not work in favour of the Republic of Slovenia, but they work in no way in any interest. Some in the interest of academic spheres, which they themselves do not understand, have repeatedly questioned the competence of these constitutional judges, who have made many decisions and decisions against the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. If we looked at neighbouring countries for a moment, we would see that such a thing is impossible in other countries. Once again, to return directly to this law. The law is short, brittle and clear. It is also fully justified. Interestingly, the National Assembly received even a letter from the Municipality of Ljubljana from the mayor of Zoran Jankovic, who in principle agrees with the law, and why is the coalition against it? It is true that they suggest that we also write the form of the word referendum in plural form, but this is not so important, because our lawyers, the great lawyers, can also justify that one referendum can mean 2 or 3 referendums, if they can change and see that we can cross trees, that we can get olive oil, and that is also possible in Slovenia, and such things. With us, everything is possible, depending on who that lawyer is, who advises you, how much you pay him and what the current political climate is. And in this current political climate, we can only count on and only on the worst. We can count on the Constitutional Court to ban one referendum, two or more referendums because they are not the current political situation. Because the government can't react differently because it doesn't know how to make laws so they can be made on the skin of people, on the skin of those who pay taxes, and on those who respect laws, then with repressive apparatus pressure on the population. Just like with the police, with the judiciary, with those that can't be touched, that can't be withdrawn and that are untouchable and eternal. And that's what we have in this love of Slovenia. Therefore, one solution is certainly that this law is adopted, that we have one referendum day and that we are then deciding on all the referendums at once. Printing papers and those loudspeakers isn't such a bad thing. Here, if it is not different and if our country cannot save so much money for its coffees, which the Prime Minister is paying for, and even if it is possible that some toilet paper cannot save so much, even the Slovenian National Party is willing to print some ballots for any of the referendums – of course, if this is all the same. I don't think there's much more to talk about these things, it's too bad the law won't be adopted. The fact is, the coalition has decided that the law must not be passed, that the coalition is probably for some, I don't know, even convinced DeSUS that it has resigned from the signatures, they have already made a deal. After all, I have to say that DeSUS – they are geniuses, they trade best. Even in the course of trade, they overcame the Slovenian People's Party, so they really "were honored". We'll support the law, for sure, but I don't think he'll go through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, Mr Branko Grimes spoke as a proposaler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you. I must say that it was a very lively debate, which I am not surprised to say, for now that sufficient time is available, I will tell you what the essence of the story is. The moment we are talking about the referendum, we are talking about the principle of the limitation of power; and the current ruling coalition, it has proved now for over an hour, only the absolute authority, without any restriction, is interested. The area corrupts and the absolute power corrupts absolutely, true old wisdom. And that, in practice, is also true, you can see for yourself. Indeed, these debates, which have been here, have three aspects that we can make perfectly clear on the basis of this argument of rejecting the proposal. The first is a comic aspect, the second is a constitutional and constitutional aspect, that is professional, and the third is a political aspect. Let's go in one order. The first, comical aspect was made by the ruling coalition in practice twice. Firstly, she herself suggested that a special consultation referendum should check whether people support the introduction of one referendum day, that is to say exactly what is now proposed in our law. When we proposed a referendum on pension and disability insurance, others who were at the time in order to agree on a referendum day with the appropriate majority, which already allows the current law, the same people voted against it. So we would go to extra costs to check something that they themselves have prevented by their own vote in Parliament. To laugh to tears! Second, what the Government is doing right now, because in this comicality they are at least consistent, let's be honest, let's at least admit it to them. In their own coalition contract, i.e. on the legal basis of the existing government, I stress once again, the introduction of one referendum day as one of the objectives of the coalition treaty is explicitly written. And the government, which was created on the basis of this legal foundation, is challenging the law proposing the opposition to establish one referendum day and saying that then there could be harmful consequences! This is called a challenge to its own legal basis. To laugh to tears! What a goal they have set themselves, they are now challenging in practice! From political prestige, because we all know what this is about; but it is comical, and this has to be acknowledged. Now, let's move forward, constitutional and constitutional. There's more than one problem! See, the Constitutional Court now practically every request for a referendum is still under constitutional review, almost everyone. And all constitutional lawyers have already pointed out that the constitutional caselaw of the Constitutional Court is completely wrong because it goes on to limit the right to a referendum, which is also a constitutional right and the Constitution itself in that article, which we have already cited several times, puts it even first – the right to direct decision is before the right to exercise direct power on the basis of elections and on the basis of the principle of division into constitutional, legal, judicial and enforceable. That's what they say. It's a very big problem here. An even bigger problem is then in practice how this is happening; look at this absurdity, to tell you only the current case. On 12 January this year, the Constitutional Court received a request from the ruling majority to assess the constitutionality of the application for a referendum on pension and disability insurance. Article 21 of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act requires the Constitutional Court, the third paragraph of Article 21, to decide within thirty days. Thirty days ago, almost a month ago. That is to say, the Constitutional Court, which is still in the process, if it decides today or once in the coming days, will only help to make this procedure even longer, and in doing so it will obviously violate the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, even if someone says that it has only directed it because there is no punishment in it – what happens if it does not – but it is binding. It doesn't say, "I should," or "it's recommended," but the Constitutional Court decides in thirty days. The 30th day, ladies and gentlemen, was 11 February. And "nothing to anybody," Balkan. If the Constitutional Court now finds that this referendum cannot be held, I say that this decision will be because the Constitutional Court will only violate the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, it is illegal and illegal. There are no legal consequences. Over him, sometimes it's said, there's only blue sky. There should be a Parliament that should act properly and lay down otherwise rules of the game so that such abuses do not occur. To non-compliance with the basic legislation. Moreover, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative has a direct basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which explicitly defines this law as a law adopted by a qualified majority. Therefore, I claim that when such conduct is breached, it is laid down in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, even in clear disagreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's obviously unconstitutional. Interesting. So much for the constitutional and constitutional aspects. And we're back. Why are you doing this? Because he wants to prevent the power of one and the same from being limited in any way. That's the only reason he does it. This is a question of the principle of power limitation. And the third is the political aspect. In a way, you also met him today when he was asked, "Yes, the right to a referendum must be restricted so as not to be abused". Yes, wait for the people of God, but who is the holder of power in democracy? Humans. The people are the bearers of power. All those who sit here are just those who exercise one of the forms of authority that is in the hands of the people. All of it. All of it. All of it. And now, look out, this absurdity. Parliament would not be restricted in any way to its decision-making rights, and the people would be restricted to the institution. At the same time, in the same breath, the man who said this said that he advocated righteousness and equality. Yeah, that's really fair and equal. Those who are the holders of power would be restricted to the right, but those who exercise this right would be left with unlimited opportunity to exercise power. Yeah, it's fair that he's getting close. Let's move on. It was also said in terms of costs, by the way very much for the hair attracted that interpretation that each next referendum reduces costs by more than half. It is not true, because the far-reaching cost of the referendum is the functioning of the state authorities and then of all the committees, electoral committees and so on, the costs incurred in doing so either physically or for the payment of their diaries and all the other costs associated with it. And they're already there when they're once in motion, then every additional referendum means a significantly lower cost. It's just the press in the material and the publication of the act in public. At the same time, it is important to note another aspect that has been forgotten. Yeah, what about the cost of people going to the referendum? That is why, in fact, this merger is so much more appropriate, so much more justified by economics, and this is also an aspect, even in law being taken into account, and so much more justified. People spend their time, spend their time if you want, even your money, get in the car, some even have to drive 30 kilometers to the voters to give out their voice or use any other method that also requires certain resources and time. All of this must be taken into account if actual costs are to be assessed. And all of this could be saved by the introduction of one referendum day, that only once they need to go to the polls, that only once they need to get in their car, get into the voter's car, have the costs, not that it has to be repeated periodically from month to month. Why? Because people want to miss the referendum. Because he wants to have unlimited authority. That's the whole game. Everyone in the coalition said that they would talk about this if we discussed at the same time where the referendum should not be or how we would otherwise restrict it or the question of the principle of the introduction of the quorum. Quorum, I will say very domestically, the quorum referendum kills, because then no one talks about what the content of the referendum question is, but it just narrows down to that: Go to the referendum. Or, "Don't go to the referendum. This proves the situation in any country where they have a quorum, if you want just in our first neighbour Italy. And then you get the absurdity that they had a lower participation in elections than one of the referendums where, by the way, they decided on a two-way majority electoral system. 99.9% of people voted in favour of a pure two-way majority electoral system and the referendum was invalid because it was 0.1% to the height of the quorum. Is that democratic?Oh, my God! Or the elections they had just before, I don't know whether they were regional or state or not, but they had a lower participation than that vote in the referendum. And we'll figure it out. Look, this is one of the questions that everyone who offers the quorum is always silenced. Not only is he killing the referendum, but the fact is that today, too, participation in the elections is declining. And if you prescribe a quorum for the referendum, then you should write down the quorum for the election much sooner, in their logic. And don't think it's just happening abroad. I would like to recall that the mayor's mother was elected by Ljubljana in some elections, where, I recall, I could be mistaken for a percentage, but about this was the relationship, the Ljubljana mayor's mother was elected to the elections, where the participation was about 16% and I think about 9% decided who was elected. Interesting. And sooner or later, you will also experience this in the national elections, believe me. Because disappointment at such perversions as we have witnessed today as part of the ruling coalition causes people to say that the politics of salt should go and stay at home. Sadly, though, they forget what they said in ancient Greece to those who are not involved in politics. Well, let's move on. Why so many referendums, there was one key question. The answer is really simple. Because it is the only effective principle of the exercise of the restriction of power. You, in the coalition, are mostly blubbering at the proposals made by the opposition. Of all the things we have proposed in favour of the development of the Slovenian economy, you have blessed them with 2% or 3%, and you have rejected everything else mainly from political prestige. It's a real state. And since the principle of power limitation is not working here, which we are not the only ones to point out, the constitutional profession that says that the parliamentary system operates in such a way that it has a majority in Parliament, which is also the basis for its election to Parliament. And then this majority of people don't have the relationship that all constitutional law theorists predicted or, if you want, constitutional fathers, when they predicted "checks and balances" balance and control of different branches of government, this in practice is no longer working today as it was supposed to. Therefore, the only effective principle of the division of power, the only effective principle of control, is the only effective principle of the limitation of power in the most positive sense, the democratic meaning of the word – the introduction of a referendum. But we already have the referendum, the referendum is our constitutional category, very well divided, it has the proper basis, and only within it can we negotiate. This is our firm decision. I'll never agree to restrict the referendum myself, I can honestly tell you that. I am very glad that such an opinion has prevailed within the SDS as a whole. I firmly believe that this is the last effective form of restricting any authority, since no one is immune to the sidelines brought by the temptations of power. And that is why it is so important, because I firmly believe that we owe not only our fellow citizens at the moment, but also our stakeholders to let democratic regulation go as far as possible. This is why this issue is so important. And it is sad that, at a point where an agreement could be reached, this is the starting point of the referendum day, in order to maintain this democratic institution of power limitation in its entirety, irreversibly, without limitation, and at the same time as costs can be reduced, you reject this agreement. And I believe that you will come with something else over time, where this will also be contained, but there will be a key problem there, that it will already go back to trying to limit the right to a referendum. You can save yourself this time because we will not agree to this, because it is the only form of effective limitation of your power that you so desire and strive to be limitless because you are accustomed to it, we will not agree to this – not today and never. And that is true, in some way you have confirmed yourself by your conduct, and I am returning to this political aspect when it comes to the concrete conduct of the Government and the rulings on the issues of the referendum just a few days ago when we were discussing the responsibility for the loss or loss of income on RTV Slovenia on the Committee on Culture. There, the minister, because you will not believe, stated that it is necessary to talk about negligence and irresponsibility or even to recognize the responsibility of those who opposed her so excellent law. What a Bolshevik reflex! We already know in power what is good for people, but if people are against them by accident, then they are wrong, and then they have to be declared guilty, and they have to be found responsible. This is about the logic developed by Minister Shirca on the Committee on Culture. He would point out, however, that against her law, all the representative unions of RTV Slovenia, the Council of Workers of RTV Slovenia, were, according to a survey published on the RTV Slovenia website, more than 70% of journalists of RTV Slovenia, and that more than 70% of the people voted against the law at the end of the referendum. So are they demeaning? What an official logic, what a nuisance there is in these words of the current authorities. The only association I'm having at this time is that famous pool about that devouring frog that's been inflatable in its air for so long that it's the biggest one until it's blown up in the end. And this frog of the current government will blow up in future elections if it does not seek consensus and agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Barovich. Not at all. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u72	Have a nice hello again! We have talked about the limitation of power many times today. Indeed, the referendum is one of these rare instruments that is available directly to people. Or are people in some way, I will not say, limited, we can all be limited when we think in a limited way, but manipulated, but we can talk about it, but this instrument must remain as a corrective, urgent correction of decision-making. Look, the division of power, it's a lot written about, even theoretically, articles. Mr Cukjat said today that this is perfectly normal if the parliamentary majority also has a majority influence on the appointment of a government and they operate a politically coordinated parliament and government, but that is why we cannot actually talk about this strict division of executive and legislative power because it comes from the decision-making system itself. Thus, the referendum is one form that is corrective, whether good or bad in a practical case, it is an old discussion, but should not be limited. The debate on the referendum day is not about this law. We also discussed this before the 2008 elections. This thought is also defined in programmes and also in the coalition programme. This is not a matter of opposition, of position, although it is said to be an opposition law. We also discussed this in the coalition, but I didn't sign it because of some resentment towards the coalition, but because it's an idea that's good and it's true, if not another, to think about. That is why I call on Members to move forward with this law. To correct anything else, to change, but the key is that this idea is not buried by this law, I mean in this sense, if this first phase is not voted out, which is the basis for continuation. So a referendum day for sure, we need to discuss it, it is a rationalisation, which is not contrary to the fundamental right of people to choose such a form of decision-making on important social issues. Abstinence. They say nothing helps, three referendums together, the result will be the same. Indeed, it will not be too disproportionate if we motivate 15 people for one referendum and for another 15% for the third, that the final result will be 45% participation. I'm sure it won't be 15 percent. Surely a larger number of people will come and will also actively cooperate and actively think about other topics. A joint referendum is certainly a contribution to greater participation and greater participation in decision-making. The only thing I think is worth thinking about is this other day. This second day should perhaps be even more accessible. Two-thirds of the Members will find it difficult to gather, perhaps having a lower quorum here. It is true, as one of the Members has already said, that the other is a consultative referendum, which we can limit as the other day would be for the consultation referendum, but when it comes to urgent matters that we just have to accept, we should make it easier to allow this date to be fixed even closer to those six months than it is now in the bill. In short, with the green light – this will obviously not be a green light at the government light, the red light will turn on – we would allow this idea of a referendum day to continue to improve the law and contribute to cost rationalisation. Another objection that arises is interesting, but then the institute abuses itself to make too many of these questions to be raised in front of people. That's not bad at all if there's more. I think that people also need to be encouraged, somehow motivated, to participate actively in power, not only when the current calculation shows that it is good for a political option, but not that people are also aware that they are an active part of politics. Even those who say, and I am not interested in politics, should know that politics is an interest of people when it sets rules, laws and, unfortunately, we cannot escape politics. Each can contribute in its own way to decisions, including by giving its own good opinion to the neighbor and spreading it. Everyone in their place can participate in their own way. And by going to the referendum, realizing this right, knowing that it's a good thing, a value, why we don't raise those values and encourage them. As I said before, we have also considered this referendum day in the coalition, but unfortunately the principles are often subject to current calculations. What do we need right now? It's probably not worth having a referendum right now, so we're going to be against some of the principles that we've written down. No, the referendum day must stay or we must enforce it, and I hope that we will have more referendums and that they will be cheaper. This was also the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Due to the absence of the Possedel, the President, Jurša should be prepared by Mr Györek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. A demeaning attitude towards such an important issue is shown by the coalition also by the number of Members present. There's three of them. Look how many of us are from the opposition. It's funny that last night when you were talking about polyvinylating bags, you were full of halls and you all had so much to say. So the matter is really comparable and shows the right attitude. But look, a respected coalition and government. The referendum is the highest level of democratic decision-making – in addition to elections. And for such a possibility, people have given their lives, protests, wars are still taking place today, so that people can come to such a possibility that they can decide on these matters either in elections or through a referendum. In Slovenia, too, the situation was very similar. For thousands of years, our grandfathers dreamed of a Slovenian country, a independent country, a democracy that we have for 20 years, and that is not the real one. Why is it a deliberate attempt to limit or even eliminate this highest level of democratic decision? It is true that in all these 20 years, as far as we have had these referendum initiatives, 76 or so have been, and only 16 referendums. In most of these referendums, people made decisions at referendums or results that were different from those adopted by the National Assembly. The reason, however, is that these were mainly the decisions of the political majority of the successors to the totalitarian system of Yugoslavia. This means left- centred or left-hand parties. And that's the key reason, probably the salt in the wound, that the referendum bothers you so much, because this is the only way, really the only way that the voting machine of the coalition, now or also in the past mandates, people through the referendum can prevent or stop. It's the only way. Respected coalition, with 46 votes, you have them in the coalition of course more when you are united, but in recent times you are more orderly, but still when you need to connect some ideological themes, you are as united as concrete. But at that point, you have a substantial increase of 46 votes. But 46 votes can't decide on such important issues as people in the referendum have the right to decide. And it is true that we have not witnessed what is happening in this mandate in all these decades of independent Slovenia. To abuse the Institute of the Constitutional Court. That you're judging the Constitutional Court when we know that the Constitutional Court is more than just an objective court body, that it's almost impossible to say that it's a political body that rejects everything in turn, as if it's an unconstitutional one. No one, a well-respected coalition, will convince me that the trial or the initiative of the referendum on judicial salaries, on the legal tariffs, was a counter-constitutional matter that the Constitutional Court could have rejected it. But that's one way. Otherwise, I can say, you are very closely connected to your regime media. We can watch or read or listen in the regime media all the time to a silent, spontaneous antipropagando against referendums. You want to impress people in the subconscious that making a decision at a referendum is something that is not for people, that we do not understand that it is some unnecessary cost to take the legitimacy of the National Assembly or those who decide on these matters. And some people even fall for it, probably more out of guilt than some civil conscience. What people should be aware of is that this is a right, an obligation for us to decide on such important matters at the referendum. And also this claim about the legitimacy of the referendum in terms of electoral participation, for me, believe me, and this opinion is shared by the vast majority of people, is the legitimacy of the referendum only in that everyone with the right to vote. This is the legitimacy given by the referendum. However, if a person does not make a decision, of course, he leaves the possibility for him to decide for himself who goes to the referendum or the elections. And if the will, the desire, especially because it strengthens democracy, is also on the part of the coalition, and if all the regime media were to encourage people to go to the elections to go to the referendum, election participation would probably be increasing. As it now appears, it is smaller from year to year. And that's what's bad. Every law that we have tabled in this mandate in the Slovenian Democratic Party has always been condemned in advance to non-vote, to rejection. This one's got that kind of fate, too. Interestingly, in most of these laws you have explained that this will have negative effects on the financial budget, that some system law will be by the government, by the coalition. However, when we present or give you a law to deal with and adopt, which reduces the costs of the budget, you turn the board in a completely different direction. Look, this law, if it were to be adopted, would certainly save a million euros in the state budget. And the fact that you explained here before that every next referendum will only halve costs is not true. What does the second referendum mean? Above all, the cost of those ballots may be administrative. Fixed costs, the main costs are the costs of people who are on election committees, administration and so on. Thus, this cost is certainly substantially saved if there are two or more referendums. Next dilemma. Why scare people or all of us so there'll be a flood of referendums now? Why? If it's one day. That's not true. However, there will probably be certain times when there will be some possibility that there will be more referendums. And it's an empty threat or some demagogic family you're trying to spread out to the public. Then it's on the government's side. Dear Government or Government Representative, those arguments are not the most credible when you say that there are no guardians in this law for some special, exceptional cases. Look, the two-thirds decision-making option is some kind of security guard, but look, this is the first reading, all of these articles are open. If today or tomorrow, when we vote on this law, this law goes into further consideration, all of these articles can also be included with some such exceptions that may not have been detected by the proponents now. There are no reservations and we will be happy to support such a solution. It is in our interest, above all, that we do not restrict referendum decision-making in people. We want people to be encouraged to make decisions or to go to a referendum to try to achieve the lowest costs. It is surprising for me, as well as for the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the Constitution should be amended to even try to restrict or determine what to decide at the referendum and what not. I can tell you myself, and I believe that the Group of Members will completely reject any attempt to limit the referendum will in the constitution and without a two-thirds majority of such an attempt. Don't worry about trying to change the constitution now. The coalition or government, it is up to you to deal more with the laws that will pull Slovenia out of the crisis to start strengthening the economy. This question is irrelevant. Have so much good will, listen and, above all, listen to people's expectations, and press the button for when we adopt this law, and this issue can be handled accordingly. And that's what everyone should be looking at together, not dealing with things that would prevent democratic decision-making. I don't think they deserve this, because we've been in a position for centuries and millenniums when we haven't had a chance to make our own decisions, and it's only right that we're proud of it and we're going to have this right, this opportunity that we've fought against, and we've kept it in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. In the absence of Mr Kek, Mr Petan should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I agree with everything my predecessors have been saying, four, five predecessors, so maybe I'll do it again sometime. It is most comical that when the proposal for a plastic bag law is being considered, the hall was full, but when it comes to such an important issue, as an important bill such as the referendum law and the human initiative, we have a handful of us here. This simply cannot be understood how this is possible, there is nothing serious about this respected congregation. Now let's just leave it. The reasons why I support such a proposal. First of all, it's rationality. If there's anything rational about this proposal, it's just rationality. I don't see one sober normal person standing up to it. There are explanations that it will not agree in time that the consequences will be that the second Sunday in May, while we wait for this referendum day, should already be adopted. They're all just flings. And this exaggeration at the cost of a referendum, I don't know, five, six million and so on. Look, there's also a lot of rationalisation here, and if we bring together more referendums for one day, we don't even say that this is actually going to be the maximum cost rationalisation. But it is not only rationalisation, it is also the constitutional right of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Somewhere around the world, I don't know if in Brazil or in some countries they even have this defined in the constitution as a duty. If you have no excuse not to participate in elections, referendums, you pay the penalty. I do not want to say by this that I am in favour of making us now present at the referendum or at elections as a duty, as an obligation or criminality in the event of abstinence. Abstinence itself is a chapter for itself, many times in fact the result of one counter-promotion. Since Slovenian political space is obviously now historically divided into left and right or black or red, however you want to define it. And if this party proposes a referendum, the other party will do everything in its power to present this proposal or the will of this party as something negative. And in the end, of course, the result is that people are almost convinced that the whole referendum is all nonsense. Not to mention, then, the frequency of the referendums, which would also be interrupted by this proposal. Why is people’s view of referendums so bad and negative? Also because there were many times when a referendum was really unnecessary. Not to mention that business hours on Sundays, really, frankly, unnecessary stuff. The law on RTV, which we have recently had, is such a bad proposal for marriage, so it is no wonder that people are tired of these referendums. If the billmakers had drawn up good laws, where there would be a slightly greater political consensus, not least with more cooperation from the social partners, there would be no dispute, there would be no demands, there would be a need for referendums. And to further touch on the Constitutional Court, which is being held at the end of the day over the nation. The Constitutional Court, which we know to be politically defined more or less, brings solutions sometimes six: four, five: four, six: three, and so on [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u77	Sorry, time's up. Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor. In the absence of Mr Ribič, Mr Ziherl should be prepared. Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Much has been said about the referendum itself, and perhaps I will draw attention to some other aspects. First of all, in general. This is how we fight this referendum, of course, sometimes we were used to not being made by people, but by someone else in a closed room. But if the referendum is so decisive for Switzerland, then I don't know why it would have to be so painful for Slovenia to warm up here at all costs, by the way. Today it was mentioned that on the occasion of the meeting with the president of the lower house of the English Parliament, Mr Bercow, what a surprise it was to him how many referendums we have. Of course, he was surprised that he was unilaterally informed. However, when we explained to him, for the first time, that the referendum or the referendum created our country, the matter might have been slightly different, but when we explained to him that the referendums require not only opposition, but that we have cases at this point in time when a referendum is called for by trade unions, students, also citizens and even the opposition, sometimes demanding a referendum, and a very up-to-date referendum is now required by the current ruling majority. And when we explained to him that this is because the government is trying to get through the wall at all costs and proposing laws that are sometimes unacceptable and illogical to people, and that this government has 20% support at this point, it's grasping its head, and it's shut up and it's clear to him. And we never talked about the referendums again. So much for how the English marvel at our referendums. Next, because the speaker is finished before me, because he's running out of time, I want to say something about the Constitutional Court. We are talking a lot about how we also need to take into account the Constitutional Court's decisions when amending the referendum legislation and we are talking about some changes that are meant more than anything else. Here, allow me to read to you the thinking that is very up to date at this time and also how it relates to this case. However, the story was created or the thought of this gentleman, I will tell whom, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the 'ankaran story'. This is Mr Ivan Kristan, a doctor of legal science, a professor of merit at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. And what he wrote: "I think it would be very useful to raise the level of constitutional discourse in our country if further discussion from the consciousness of the participants finally removed the myth of the absolute inviolability of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, if the decisions of the Constitutional Court were not commented on, but were enforced." We have heard this 100 times in the National Assembly – on our side, how we must not comment on decisions, but we must enforce them. And the notion that the National Assembly must not adopt law in contravention of the position of the Constitutional Court. And he goes on to say: "Even worse for a serious legal state, almost unbelievable already, is the persistent repetition of some politicians and commentators that in the system of division of power the Constitutional Court is the highest constitutional body. The removal of these myths would also help Members to be aware of the situation that belongs to the National Assembly as legislator, thereby strengthening their confidence as legislator and their responsibility to carry out the legislative function. And perhaps then the Constitutional Court would also begin to respect the principle of judicial restraint." And then he goes on to say: "The "Trim" - this was written by Dr. Ivan Kristan - "that the Constitutional Court, by means of a contested decision, violated the constitutional principle of the division of power, went into effect in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: "In Slovenia, the people, citizens and citizens exercise it directly and through elections according to the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." And he goes on to say: "This is the power of the people and the principle of the division of power into three branches of authority, each of which has certain powers in the Constitution. In theory, they point out that the principle of division of power does not establish relationships of superiority and subordination, but of adaptation. The Constitutional Court is therefore not the highest authority in the country which can also instruct the legislative body which laws must adopt, but has certain powers in the Constitution." And he goes on to quote again: "If the National Assembly were to comply with the Constitutional Court's order and against its conviction and against its autonomous will to do so and do so, this would symbolically and in fact mean the end of the constitutional principle of the division of power by our constitutional system, because the National Assembly would lose its position as autonomous legislator." And then, "the position of the Constitutional Court in this case by Ankara points to its extremely under-appreciating attitude towards the National Assembly as the holder of the legislative function". And to conclude this part, the case from the Federal Republic of Germany, where the Federal Constitutional Court is held, is what it is called. And he states how the President of the Federal Constitutional Court commented on this case: "The Federal Constitutional Court must not interfere with the political process, but must legally obstruct it. The Court does not deal with content as much as it does with procedures that then lead to content. To the legislator, by doing so, expand the field within which he can decide. It does not produce the content that the legislator is supposed to take into account or even implement in the future, but it does indicate the limits within which different possible routes remain available to the legislator." That's it. And to read to you again this: "We will finally have to remove the myth of the absolute inviolability of decisions of the Constitutional Court, if the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not to be commented on, but to be enforced." This myth will have to be removed. I will read this many more times in the National Assembly, for that is what we have heard countless times on the left hand side. Now, too, someone from the profession, as it is called, clearly intervened and said that this was a myth that is not true because equality between the branches of power applies. And to end with this fear of ruling majority before the referendum or this one-day referendum. It's perfectly clear to me, because then you'd lose that argument when you say there's so much referendum and it's so much to waste on the referendum. Yes, of course, if there were one referendum, there would be only one, there wouldn't be many, we could not say that there are many and certainly would be saved at the expense, even if only half of them were saved. I'm not going to argue about whether half or a third or two of this is saved, in any case, it's saved. This basic argument that you're scaring people with would have fallen out. And what actually happens is what my predecessor has already said, that then people actually feel that it's something that's already blasphemous to go to the referendum and have the right to decide something. It's someone else's job to make that decision. It used to be that place over there on that side of the National Assembly: closed, no windows. That's where they used to decide. We still want to make decisions there, at least some people want to. Just, God forbid, in Parliament! Uh, no, that's something. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Moreover, Parliament is the highest form of decision-making, and I would say that, those of us sitting here who have the privilege of sitting in this Parliament as elected Members, we went directly with our name before the electorate, presented ourselves there, there was no mediation. We went straight to the polls. You all know what that means. And then we wouldn't have the right to make that decision, someone else would have told us. I'm glad Dr. Kristen wrote that. I think that this is also a turning point in our legal thinking and also in Parliament's thinking. The Constitutional Court's decision has been over-absorbed. I do not say that the Constitutional Judges have made the wrong decision, but their decisions have been misused in this Parliament. And I'm going to read to you once again, "that you can't comment and that it's just being implemented." This has been abused, this is the greatest abuse of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which could have even happened in this House. I support our proposal and represent this view that the referendum must be, must remain and that the referendum day is good for both the state and the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to propose, given the very important constitutional issue that has now been discussed and again in the debate that we had on the Committee on Local Self-Government, on the opinion of Dr Kristana and some other constitutional lawyers, because it has opened up in essence a very important constitutional issue. Therefore, I propose, Mr Vice-President, that you put this law to the debate and the vote also by proposing to the National Assembly that the Constitutional Commission, which is already in operation - I am making a procedural proposal and I do not need any comments and smiles on the other hand - should consider how to resolve the conflict in society now, because we do not know what will happen if it is really possible not to execute the judgments of the Constitutional Court, how we will resolve this conflict between the three branches of power and the fourth, which is the whole of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you. I would ask that you make such a proposal when there is a vote at the conclusion, but also personally, like any Member, to take the initiative on the working body of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission is also any initiative to do so. Mrs Terzan spoke on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Given that today's consideration of this bill very often mentions the fact that the current government is unwilling to cooperate with the public concerned in the drafting of legislation, this text is also found in the bill itself, on behalf of the Government, I would like to remind this honourable assembly that it is this respectable assembly, on a proposal from the current government in November 2009, that has adopted a resolution on normative activities that obliges regulatory makers to have a minimum standard of cooperation with the public concerned in the drafting of the law. That the Government takes this seriously and that it is not afraid of the views and opinions of people interested in the public, the Government has also upgraded this with the corresponding additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government, which requires this minimum standard of cooperation with the public concerned, while at the same time providing electronic support for public participation in the preparation of the regulations found on the E-democracy portal. In addition, I think that we should not forget that every proposal for a law is presented by the Government to the Economic and Social Council, that it is not uncommon for the Government to include representatives of these interested public in the drafting of the laws in working groups, and I therefore believe that there is no reason for people to be afraid of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Ziherl has the floor to prepare Mr Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the possibility of a referendum, it does not show a loss of words, for this is one of the basic democratic gains and is equal to the election right, i.e. direct decision-making of citizens and citizens on the current problems. Of course, the referendum in its current form is different from the referendums that we knew from the previous country and were quite a bunch. It was already known about self-contribution. In this way, we solved the financial situation we were carrying, or when everything was loaded, people did what was absolutely necessary with the extra money. Otherwise, it was positive. The effect was that we got gyms, schools, kindergartens, roads. Of course, at the referendum we also decided on very important issues, such as the establishment of our country, the entry of our country into various political and military ties, we had referendums on environmental protection. If the government's support falls below 20%, we can expect that there will be an increasing need in civil society in the organisations concerned to verify some of the government's decisions at referendums that would hold back or eliminate a situation with which a particular segment of people disagree. And if there are more and more of these referendums, now 5, 6, it is logical that they are on one day, because it is the decision-making of such materials that can be waited for those few months when the referendum day comes and the electorates and voters decide on something. Of course, it's like some kind of emergency exit that some things stop when they stop. That the opinion on the referendum day in the coalition is uneven has already been shown in recent discussions. As a smoke bomb to cloud the problem, even a wish was made for a referendum to decide if we were on a referendum day. So, after the research referendum. The referendums may, depending on the type of proposer, be attractive to the authorities or to the coalition. In some sense they can mean defeat not some front, at some event. They certainly mean limiting power, which the authorities don't like. Of course, it is too much to discuss costs if we can limit them to rational business, and here again we come to a fact that speaks for the referendum day. It is absurd to save money when it comes to democracy, when it comes to making decisions at a time when, on the other hand, it is extremely unserious and extremely unscrupulous with hundreds of millions. The costs of the referendum are also partly reimbursed, as all the people who participate in them and are paid for two or more days of work in connection with the referendum then return this money to the economy when they acquire some of the necessities of life. Of course, I wonder how we'll be able to decide any things, because last night it gives me great fear of what the coalition can do if it's not even able to make a banal shopping bag bill. The vote on this has been postponed to another session; it is not necessarily the next one, this next one can be this year as well. If even in such a matter, the coalition is unable to reconcile itself to make a decision as to how to deal with other important matters. Perhaps the problem of shopping bags, by the way, can be solved by trade alone, because we already see that they have taken certain measures and will not wait for legislation that is still lagging behind. It is also important to note that the President of the Government speaks one language and does the other. He is constantly calling on the opposition to co-operation, to cooperate, but if there is no obedience to the opposition's proposals in such basic matters as the referendum and the proposed savings in relation to the referendums coming into the future, how can we then expect them to participate in any other areas. It's one thing to talk and another to work. And that's what's been going on for the whole term. Offers for cooperation are, of course, only on paper and there is no implementation. I will certainly support this bill, and I think that voters and voters will also see how things are going to be, and perhaps in the near future there will be no more referendums, because maybe they will just wait for another government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Potrč has the floor, in the absence of Mr Rozje, to prepare Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much. First of all, I am grateful to you, Mr President, when you mentioned, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the importance of plebiscite that we had in 1990. Since I had the honour of participating in this plebiscite and even co-signing on behalf of the party a special agreement between all parliamentary parties for a single performance on the plebiscite, it would be right to say that we did not have a constitution at the time, that we had to and agreed by all parliamentary parties to adopt a special law for the implementation of plebiscite, that we committed ourselves in this agreement that no one would abuse it for their own purposes, but for their political purposes. However, I must say that this is the last thing that is not true and that we are still doing this today, and we do not admit that we all contributed a great deal to the independence of Slovenia at that time. I'm not going to say the same, but we're going to make a lot of contributions. Just a few comments or your views on the debate that has taken place so far. I am not optimistic, on the basis of which I would be sure or I would hope that a common position and a common opinion will ever be adopted between us on how to address this issue. I'm afraid not. I would only point to some questions, some of which we should only know in some way that we are also stressing by not having enough basis. Look, you're talking about costs. We have not talked about costs and we do not mind talking about costs and saying that it will help in reducing costs, we admit. Only, ladies and gentlemen, are the costs of plebiscite the only criterion for the realization of democracy, which, in your opinion, represents the highest form in comparison with all other forms of expression of human will and expression of power. One and the other don't work together. You even had people who specifically stressed that we're talking about costs, and that's just not true. Another such question is the question mentioned by Dr Rudolf Petan in his letter or views. Yeah, we're always saying it's a matter of changing different forms of power. And we keep saying that this arrangement means that each one of these branches has a certain function. And all functions to reduce only in direct decision-making at the referendum also constitute a violation of the Constitution. Parliament has the right to decide and has the right to take decisions, this Parliament is elected and has the right to rule for a period of time until it is given a mandate. And he's saying today that apart from the referendum there is no other form of control, it's simply not true. Surveillance is the Constitutional Court for Unconstitutional Decisions, for specific wrong decisions is a regular judicial path, for politically unacceptable decisions are elections, for inadequate, illegal conduct by authorities, ministers, governments are interpretations, and ultimately a constructive non-trust and ultimately, and this does not mean the least, perhaps even the most important, is a referendum. But the referendum is not the only form! When it is estimated that it is only necessary and right to hold a referendum once a year to make this more rational, I ask you to take into account that there is a country in addition to rationality and costs. Now you're gonna be looking at me strangely for what I'm talking about. Because this country must function, bad or good, within the framework of the mechanisms it has. Under these mechanisms, if it works as badly as you have been working for six months now, you claim for a year to put in place the mechanisms so that there will be a different management of this country on a personal path. But to say that it's only important to save a million, two, five or ten, and it doesn't matter if we save that money, when certain laws come into force, it just doesn't work! It's not because you forgot about the country. And you will also rule and you will have to worry and be responsible for the country to enforce those decisions that the majority of Parliament has taken. And this majority has, thank God, since 1990 been democratically elected. This majority is the one who decides, it can be bad. But decisions are made, and he has the right to take them. And all these decisions to warn that there are many referendums because decisions are bad. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the logic of your thinking is, take such decisions in Parliament that we will like them, because then there will be no referendum. When, to some extent, this can be done to find a compromise. Only the price of performance or non-execution, requirements or non-referendum must always be made only by a decision which, according to the opposition's taste and opinion, is simply not possible. To talk about the efficiency and responsibility of the authorities and at the same time all solutions or an important part of the solutions to be put to the referendum. No, let's give it all thought. And I, somewhere it's been published, and it doesn't matter, I said that it's also thought of a referendum day. After all, we made it conditional, Miss Ana was in my office, when we talked with Mr Virant about what solutions for that referendum law were adopted, and we then adopted some form of referendum day. But by giving a speech at the time about putting in place certain restrictions, I hope that I am not incorrect and that I am not wrong, because the memory has its holes, that there was a speech, but everything cannot be enforced, because I also have no support for it in my own party. And some things could not be enforced because Dr. Virant’s own client had no support and was willing to seek certain solutions. Do not make it easy to say this in such a way that everything will be resolved by the adoption of this law. Look, I can do with a little malice, but I understand the debate, I will not appoint one of your Members and our colleagues when he has made his point this way, if we have made a proposal, you accept it, even if you have doubts, if you do not accept it, we will in a month, two, three said, we wanted to save people from this problem of the referendum. We wanted to exercise all rights in the referendum and also to ensure that the referendum would cost nothing because part of the costs would be reduced because there would be more on the same day, and some say, "You can do this with rationalisation". You know, you talk so much in your head that sometimes it's really hard to listen. I have here a letter sent to me by the Secretary of the State Election Commission specifying the costs for the referendum, totalling €3.73 million for the RTV referendum because the costs were calculated in total. He said he doubted that major rationalisation was possible in that framework, but said that the second, third, fourth, fifteenth referendum on the same day meant less costs, probably less costs. There was a talk that this could be half less, depending on what concrete solutions will be and what the willingness of the members of the electoral committees to participate under certain conditions in these bodies will be, because we all probably know, even if there are more referendums on the same day, that people will have to be informed about the referendum issue. A magazine or brochure will be provided in every part. There will be some extra mail left, because if there are two or five brochures in one envelope, the price of the postage will be, unless it is, I will not in vain, as it is said, name any names reached with the country any special price agreement. Not simplifying things that way. We have given you a proposal, you accept it, if you do not, next time we will tell you that you are all guilty because there are simply no concrete solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] Anton Urh has the word. [[He's not here.]] The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I claim that we are at a very bad time both for politics and for the economy, even more difficult for many people, citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, workers and workers, all who have minimum incomes and those who do not receive any income. And it's a good time for everyone to be against it. And I think that the biggest problem in these referendums is that the government has failed to tackle these problems effectively. Who's signing the referenda? They're not described by the opposition as being problematic. For pension reform, citizens have collected signatures, and they would probably have collected as many as 100,000. It is precisely in this pension reform that I ask myself that this matter is not for the referendum. Mr. Potts has just spoken. He has made an excellent presentation. What about the state? Does anyone wonder what the foundation is or what the tolar was based on, what the euro is based on? If we take these 100 euros to the central bank, I don't know if they're going to give us gold for it, as it used to be, a hundred years ago, and even less when the money was based on gold when it was really on something. We live from hand to mouth today. If we do not effectively collect taxes, if we do not effectively monitor costs, if we do not face pension reform and all of this, we can bring down everything we have created in the last twenty years and more, and I can say that our country, thank God, is stable. And even in this difficult time, he takes care of people who live on the edge of life or even below the minimum of life. When I looked up when they were collecting young people's signatures for a little work. We are solidarity, and when they were young before the administrative unit, they offered me, they didn't know me, I didn't give this signature, but the older people were so solidarity, they didn't know what it was, but they went to sign it. You see, the climate is such that today we can stand up to everything, but we don't ask ourselves what we're going to do with the country. I'm really wondering how we're gonna live tomorrow. And now we're talking about this one day of invitation to tender, and I'm not taking it in such a way that I don't know how much savings this would bring. But we would bring with this one message that we are ready to go once on this referendum day and thus save some money. I have already said in one of the debates that if there were to be four referendums, but if we did just one day, it would be that one very beautiful school in one of our environments or that money would be earmarked for those workers to whom our successful entrepreneurs, under the terms of reference, never paid their personal income and today they do not know how to proceed. Okay, I wouldn't say where I'd put this money right now, but I'm sure it could be saved. And how's the Slovenian Human Party? In this mandate, the Slovenian People's Party signed only one referendum, where we agreed to decide the people and we all agreed on a referendum on an arbitration agreement. This was a topic that we argued could go to a referendum to be decided by citizens and citizens. It was able to say quite a good participation and the result, as it was, we must now respect. Though our will was different. I think that sometimes when searching for guilt, we need to look at ourselves, as we say in our Slovenian proverb, before our own threshold and, above all, continue the meaning that we have already agreed with our colleague today, we need to have the country in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word. He's not here. Milan Gumzar. He's not here. The word has Zvonko Černač, to be prepared by Franz Pukšič, followed by Jožef Jerovšek, Pojbič, Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! With regard to this issue, I think that the answer to the question why referendum initiatives are taking place, particularly for referendums on the enforcement or non-implementation of the law, should be based mainly on the question. Is it really because a group wants to complicate the legislative procedure, or is there another reason? The answer to that first part, I think, is very clear on what's been going on in recent months. Most of the referendums initiated over the last six months were initiated by the electorate and the electorate. What does that mean? This means that laws are bad, that they irritate a large group of people, that solutions are not appropriate and that this large group of people legitimately wants to enforce different changes to the legislation in force. This is, in fact, a kind of mirror of the current power and its inability to communicate with those who have chosen it. In such cases, there is a lack of confidence on the part of people in power, a decline in public support to the current government, which we have witnessed in recent times. As low support as the government currently has, I do not think it has had it in the history of this country. And it is normal that there is a conflict between people’s expectations and the solutions that are being adopted in the National Assembly or earlier in the Government. The key to a solution to this problem is a different way of ruling, a different model of governance, the adoption of different laws, laws that will respond to the needs and expectations of people who will rationalise public spending, provide more effective public administrations, and, on the other hand, provide people with a minimum chance of survival. Above all, those who have worked hard and worked hard for 40 years and expect to have security at their age, those who do not have jobs to get jobs, those who do not have housing, especially young people, to get to their homes. People expect the government, the government, to adopt laws that will answer these questions, not laws that save between €100 million and €200 million a year with a quasi-retirement reform in order to reduce this pension cake. Instead of withdrawing this 100 to 200 million from tycoon transfers to accounts in Liechtenstein, Cyprus, and I don't know where yet. Therefore, Your Honor, there are referendums. Because the current government does not know how to respond to current problems in the way people expect it to. And it's not true that people elected you two years ago just because they were against the previous Prime Minister. One large part of you has also been chosen because of his possession of your pre-election promises. One of them was, too, we have heard today that you agree to the introduction of a referendum day. There is something else written in these pre-election promises that were then poured into some government program that will never be realized, at least not in this mandate. Even within the framework of existing legislation, it would be possible to act rationally and introduce a kind of referendum day, one or two. We do have this mechanism written in law, but the problem is that it requires judgment — the judgment of a two - thirds majority in the National Assembly. The opposition has this judgment and has shown it several times and has offered it to you. Unfortunately, that judgment was not on the other side of you. The last case is a referendum on the law on RTV, some of which went even so far that when you proposed it five years ago, it was all O.K., when the current opposition proposed it was wrong. About the same law referendum. But here you went even so far that you were not ready to wait even a few months, no harm would have been done, and you would have combined at least two — the little work and the RTV. Not so much. And when we told you on several occasions that the responsibility for almost 4 million unnecessary costs for the referendum, which was on December 12th, is borne by you, exclusively you, you have given us this terrible resentment, which is the truth. There was no need for that referendum to be carried out in the way it was, the only need was because you were counting on this referendum to get it due to speed. This is humility, or politics, and the abuse of this institute. Not to mention the damage caused by the Minister of Culture because she did not act in accordance with what is expected of her, in accordance with the oath she made in the National Assembly. When voted in the referendum by almost a two-thirds majority of the rejection of the law, it should propose appropriate solutions so that the income of RTV does not go out and they are not. It was only after the new year that she proposed to amend the law, resulting in – 5 million losses in euro – the revenue of the public institution RTV. It is not the opposition who is unaware of the responsibility to manage the country, but unfortunately the opposition is the one who does not have the power to enforce and enforce appropriate solutions in this House. As long as this power is gone, we can propose solutions that are good for everyone and cannot be disputed for anyone. In its negative, negative opinion, the government also speaks mainly of costs, although, as some of you have said, this is not so important. Of course, it is essential, of course, that costs are also essential. They are essential to the part where they are caused needlessly. And the last case is that the costs for the RTV referendum on December 12th due to your arrogance were unnecessary. Without any difficulty, this law could wait until April 10th. And since this is not the case, the only solution in the law is to close the so-called referendum day or two if there are some circumstances that require these things to be implemented earlier. It will still bear the greatest responsibility every time a ruling coalition will have to adopt laws that will not irritate people, but will be in the best interests of the country and its inhabitants. This is the only key to keeping these referendums from happening. You can't stop people from talking about the issues they're dealing with. You can't do that with a restraining order in the constitution. You can't do that with a restraining order. But now the events that are taking place around the world convince you that human will cannot be stopped, even with tanks and weapons. But we should get used to it after 20 years. Sovereign, the people have the highest authority in this country, not every time a ruling coalition. We are all responsible and accountable to the people for what we do and for the decisions we make. Just like you and us. And we need to be aware of these responsibilities. If we are aware of this responsibility and look at the arguments, we can see that they are not there. The three are listed in this government opinion. Compliance with European legislation. Please, what will happen in six months in compliance with the directives? Things have been going on for years and years and some argument why, if it were a law requiring compliance with European Union law, there would be many consequences. Then the next indent reads here, "if legislation were to be brought into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court". Really? What, though, is the oldest decision that has never been in line with what the Constitutional Court has said? That decision, which said that the referendum on the electoral system where people decided on the majority electoral system was the one to be adopted, had never been legalised by the National Assembly. He did some trick in 2000 not to do that without further referendums. So that argument won't hold. And laws that are adopted by emergency procedure. You see, here's actually one big problem. But not because of the suspension of the decision, which is bad, but because they try to make decisions that have far-reaching consequences after an emergency. This is a practice that has grown more and more in the past period, and I hope that it will not repeat itself in the future. In some ways, I think there is a great deal of legislation trying to take decisions in laws that have far-reaching implications for people and the country through an emergency procedure. If we take it all together, I must say that there is no formal or substantive argument to reject what the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes. I think it would be right to take this decision for both the substantive reasons and for purely cost reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I will not make it mandatory that I did not intend to call first, but it seems important to me to say a few words on this idea of a referendum day. On other occasions, I have already said this, but let me be crystal clear. The idea of a referendum day, as presented, means de facto suspension of the legislative branch of power. It simply means that, potentially, all the laws that will be adopted at the post-referendum meeting and until the meeting of the month before the date of the new referendum are the right year, potentially on the list to be included in the referendum and will therefore be suspended and will not be enforceable. Some laws are such that, if the referendum is to take place or not, only a few months away from the failure to enforce the law can mean that the law is totally unnecessary and, in fact, the consequences, the negative consequences arising from it have already been established. Such an idea means that the legislator, this body, these Members sitting here, does not trust their own work and that they make a basic good decision, even if some oppose them by the opposition or not. Therefore, this suspension means, from the point of view of the division of power to the legislative, judicial, enforcement and takeover of the executive power, exactly what some have previously said is that the main role of whether this law is good or not, whether it should be effective or not, is actually taken over by the people or by the Constitutional Court. That is why I cannot accept such a proposal. Talking about how the referendums would be less if the laws were better is, of course, pointless. These laws are what they are. Some are a little better, some are a little worse, some can be changed. As has already been said, Vice-President Potrč has talked about this, there are legal and other forms of safeguards and restrictions on this legislation, judicial and other ways, all of which can happen. Finally, on the whole legislative period of a Parliament, every four years it will pass its judgment on the people in direct elections and replace bad legislators with better legislators. There's no other way. This was also decided in the constitution adopted by the referendum and the plebiscite. There can be no dispute about this decision, at least we should all agree on it. We had previously listened to a representative of the candidates, who had a lot of good things to say about the referendum, and also, there is no problem. The referendum is an important aspect of the limitation of power, direct decision-making of people and constitutes a certain form of restriction of power as well as of parliament. However, this function can only and only if it is not misused as a universal tool to solve all problems and problems if there is actually a box in which we can put all our problems and use them as a means of political struggle. The referendum can be a referendum that has a reputation in the eyes of people and is attended only if they don't have to go to the polls and decide on, I don't know, returning investments to infrastructure if they don't have to talk about reorganisation of railways, if they don't have to judge whether a group, a small group of people, 5 to 6 women a year, has the right to extrauterine fertilisation and so on. Only then can the referendum play its part if it is not degraded, if it is not devalued, if it is not humiliated in the defilement of the current political battles and fights. And that's what this is all about. At the moment, this referendum has no validity, people reject it, and even when we should put a general and important question to the referendum and decide plebiscitely, then participation may be reduced due to the degradation of the referendum. This referendum will have weight if the legislator, this body, decides that, because he adopts the law, he will exempt himself from the motion for referendums. It is really strange that we in this house adopt laws, and, look, in addition to adopting laws, we have the right to question these laws and give them to the people to decide. Yeah, we really believe a lot of ourselves, and no wonder people don't believe us either. I mean, to be honest, that Parliament and the Council of State should not have the right at all to propose a referendum. However, I propose and I think that the referendum is a real matter, especially when it comes from the initiative of people's initiatives, signatures and so on. If you believe that you have a role to play, that we have a role in the system of division of power and in relation to direct decision-making, in direct participation such as referendum and some other forms, then let us agree on this. Then let us also agree that some quorum is important and necessary, that the decision at the referendum is not only legitimate but also legal. But we will never agree on this in this assembly, as it has been said before, that now the referendum can be so that every other day, when we are in power, something may have to be changed, because this is already too much. I think that this type of political discourse that we are going through at this referendum means, above all, that we are giving priority instead of rational opinions and decisions to populist policies. To refer to people, to people, not to people to refer to amorphic categories, not to interests to refer to something that will never be fully attached to us, which we will never be able to verify, but to actually believe that others will follow us. Therefore, of course, I will not support this law, I will not support any measures which would constitute a de facto suspension of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič is supposed to have the word. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jerovšek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Marian Pojbich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich. I apologize, Mr Tanko first, then let Mr Anderlich be prepared. It's a fatal mistake. Mr. Tanko, please. You're written. I must give you my word, otherwise I would have made a fatal mistake twice, to you and Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u94	I understand the fear and discomfort of Comrade Anderlich. First of all, it would point to the fact that it has already become a custom in the National Assembly, that there are no ministers when we are dealing with matters in their fields. We can count on the fingers of one hand when they come and participate in the consideration of agenda items. It is clear that ministers have other tasks, such as the plenary session of the National Assembly, when the meetings of the National Assembly are held. After all the corners, we hear they're ministers sometimes, but they don't come to the meeting. We deal with important topics many times, even more than this one. The President-in-Office of the National Assembly should do something in this mandate, which he remained until the end of his term of office, because he obviously does not go any further. The Prime Minister of the Government once said that he would participate in the National Assembly on several occasions also on topics that are not purely legal in nature. He's been to some regulations before. But since that famous financial regulation was adopted, we have no longer seen it in dealing with any important issues in the National Assembly, except for the last time that its answer to the question has been addressed. I would like to point out that today we have before us a topic that is actually a summary or one solution, which is also recorded in the coalition agreement, here in chapter 11.9 of the Constitutional Electoral System and the referendum, you wrote in one part of the chapter concerning the referendum: "All referendums on the same day of the year". This was a coalition commitment from the beginning of the mandate. There was still great euphoria, a lot of forecasts about how the coalition would act rationally, how they would try to arrange these things to be as logical as possible, as rational as possible. The more the mandate moves away, the less this rationality is in the National Assembly. You have been members of four parliamentary groups, your presidents have signed this agreement and on your behalf, this is on behalf of the SD, LDS, Really and DeSUS. Suddenly, all of you who have signed this covenant have forgotten this and your discussions today are diametrically opposite to what you said at the time. It's diametrically opposite. And that's not the only area where this is happening. Earlier it was said in one of the debates that the idea of a referendum day was not new, that it first appeared about ten years ago or even more. We summarized it last November when we had a few referendums ahead of us, including a referendum on the Radio Television Act. At that time, we proposed that all these referendums, which had been announced, should be held on the same day. We proposed a flowery Sunday, April 17th this year, like that day D, on which we would vote on all these referendums, which would have been processed by all these proceedings by then, even through the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, some members of the coalition mocked this flower week, and this solution, in fact, was summed up by their coalition agreement. We then somehow formed this issue into another solution, now we propose that this is the second Sunday in May, this is probably a date that is not disputed, these are weeks around the victory day, around the festival of the Municipality of Ljubljana, this will actually remain the only holiday in the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is worth mentioning, and I do not understand why the coalition would not support this important date even in such a way as to have a referendum day every year in this week or Sunday around it. I don't think that would be a problem at all. We would all win, those who would lose, and those who would win, because these are the days around the day of victory. Despite your opposition to this idea at that time in November that the referendums that would have been processed by this month would have been held on a flowery Sunday, the referendum and people's decisions on the Radiotelevision Act were not, in fact, confused. And the decision was no worse for the candidates, but it was extremely bad for the coalition, because probably no one among you expected such a bad result. The debates of some constitutional lawyers also show that the referendum day is meaningful. If I recall correctly, Dr Igor Kaučič also participated in one or two broadcasts in the media, which supported this solution. And Dr. Igor Kaučič was not the only constitutional expert who thought such a solution was logical. If citizens can, say, choose between 30 lists per election unit and choose candidates and even give them preferential votes, then it would probably not be difficult to vote on a referendum day for three or four referendums that year. It probably wouldn't be hard. And if people are able to monitor electoral campaigns, I don't know, 30 candidates in the media, say on TV, on radio, in commercial media, then probably two or three campaigns will be monitored, which are related to laws that will then be at the referendum. I don't think that would be a problem with anything. I think we are one of the few democracies that has so many mistrusts in reason, reasonableness, the ability to perceive citizens. This is a coalition problem, which shows that citizens are not trusted to be unable to absorb certain materials under the Radiotelevision Act, the Small Work Act, and I do not know what else to do and they only decide whether or not to do so. It's different in elections. There's a more difficult matter because there's a lot of leaves, lots of names, preferential votes. There's a much more difficult matter. In this case, it's probably not hard. It seems very underestimating to me and also to me that, in fact, with everything that is happening in this society with these demands for referendums, the opposition weighs down. Among all the referendums that are now in play, the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed or co-proposed a referendum that has succeeded, this is the Radio Television Act, and one referendum that is now under constitutional review, and one referendum that has been requested by all parliamentary parties. It's also called coalition. This seems somewhat perverse to me that now, with all these referendum costs, you are burdening only the Slovenian Democratic Party. We now have in the process, in addition to these requests for a referendum in which we participated in our part, also the requirements required by civil society groups. Let's say a student organization in conjunction with a union for a small job, and then a law on pension and disability insurance when union headquarters were organized. A consultative referendum on the Shoštanj thermal power plant requires coalition members from the Zares party, half of them, and so on. It is said that during this period, when we are trying to focus this negativity on this initiative on the Slovenian Democratic Party, we actually have candidates for referendums from elsewhere over this period, not from our party. Other candidates are on the table. This suggests that this opposition referendum, which is so thorny in the Fifth Coalition, is virtually gone. One quarter of the proposals currently in play are the opposition referendum. But the rest is human will or coalition will for these matters, and it would be good if those who discuss and burden the National Assembly and people with these slanders first looked at who are the proponents, whose things are predicted, who are invested and what they want to achieve. However, these referendum requirements, which are currently under way, are mainly about the powerlessness of those who are interested and should participate in the drafting of laws. These are social partners, this is an interested public. The social partners made it clear that they had been faked in the process of adopting pension legislation, that they had not been taken into account for ignoring them. Similar comments were made by students, another strong civil society group. It is likely that another civil society group will engage if you press forward with the family code or with a similar foolish solution that you send to the National Assembly and that you insist on unconsciousness. It would therefore make sense to try to gather these anomalies, which appear increasingly in this mandate, on a certain day, on a cut-off date and decide on them. That because you have brought matters through the legislative process in some unusual way, we are trying to minimize these matters at least in the cost work if they have already gone in the material direction wrong. Therefore, I think it would make sense for the coalition to consider its actions, its actions, because when the referendum day is collapsing, when we have the referendums at every free week ahead of us, and it can happen that way, and it will cause costs, it would make sense for us to consider whether this matter would actually somehow lead to a merger and, above all, to regulate and amend all these previous procedures, to consider the adoptions of laws that result in such demands that people want a referendum decision. In fact, I find it kind of inappropriate to underestimate people. For example, in Shivica, there is no problem that on the same day they have a referendum decision on several issues, on more substantive issues, including laws. At times, they may have ten or more decisions on the same day, but no one problems or underestimates it. This is probably the only problem in our Slovenia, and only at a time when it is not in the power of an option that is not able to process or communicate or harmonise these substantive issues that come before us. I therefore propose to support this solution on a joint referendum day. The solution brings another addition, one possibility, that, in the case of indeed urgent matters, another other day in the year for these matters can be determined by some appropriate decision, and that is possible, and is depreciated by what you fear will cost you too much of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u96	It's just fine that we were able to prevent this conspiracy so that I wouldn't be in front of Mr Tank because it would be difficult for him to explain that I wanted to kick him out. Speaking of this law, it has been said many times that it is not really possible to discuss seriously the fact that it really wants to be regulated by one part of the legal order in a way that is most suitable for Slovenian democracy and for the Slovenian state. It is, in my opinion, a sacred pardon to settle many things with a law of two articles and to remedy the flaws both in the functioning of the National Assembly, the Government, etc., and in particular to enable citizens and citizens to help the Government, which is unable to manage this country, by giving them appropriate answers to individual questions at the referendum. That's just not true. These are things that, in my opinion, are both in the constitution and arranged according to some logic, some sense that was appropriate at the time when we were regulating this for the Slovenian state. The fact is that, with the consultation referendum, legislative and other forms, we have a rather complicated arrangement, but quite a few governments so far, including the previous, present and previous ones, and all the political options have found it necessary, as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to change the law, better or more precisely, to change the constitution, which will regulate certain matters very clearly. There is certainly a flaw in this law that we do not deal with this one day in a way, but what about those issues that require faster regulation than that of a referendum in one year, or if we take a practical look, first of all, at some cases in half a year, regardless of whether it is issues of alignment with the European legal order, when it comes to the issue of legislation that should be regulated in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court when it comes to urgent procedures. Here I am thinking mainly of measures when it comes to intervention after, say, a natural disaster or anything else. It is true that two-thirds of this output can be arranged differently if two-thirds of the Members are in favour, there can be something to do, something good for Slovenian citizens and citizens, but just look at what we do every day in the National Assembly and in this Slovenia. Is it possible, even after this preliminary debate, and after all the debates today, if you want, even at a point that has not been strictly tied to the government's position, to efficiency and so on, it is always: incompetent, ineffective, another government will come. Until that happens, we'll help them through the referendums. It is in vain that some referenda are not primarily sponsored by a particular policy option or specifically by the SDS. The very origin of some initiatives is in this option. There's nothing here, but I'm not just talking about the law about RTV and any other, but we're convincing and convincing here. In the beginning, I said that Liberal democracy would like to sit at the table and talk about how to change the constitution. We may never come along with a proposal for a referendum to say so, which is also a written idea. Maybe we could come up with some changes in the constitution. If I look at some of the files and some of the proposals after 2000, as well as in the mandate 2000-2004, as well as in the previous mandate, there were a number of things that would lead mainly towards rationalisation, simplifying certain issues. But I think it's a crucial question, we've already talked about where we actually brought this home institution of the referendum and what this institute of the referendum really means. If it is to be a substitute for the decision-making of the authorities who are legitimately elected in the elections, then in my opinion the answer is inappropriately used by the institution of the referendum. Of course, it is right that voters and voters, if they decide to do so, collect signatures and demand a statement on the crucial issue of doing so. However, I do not agree with you that some dissatisfied group of Members who do not vote in Parliament will then turn to the Institute of the Referendum and wish to achieve this goal, which most thought was not a priority at that time and cannot receive support in the National Assembly. That is why I believe that after this law is rejected and a few referendums are to be held in the future, the first will be very soon, but there will be a reflection and we will come to an arrangement whereby the referendums will be an exception rather than a rule and that they will only deal with the issues that are actually most important for citizens and for citizens and that this will not be an excuse to put things on the electorate and the electorate. I have always advocated a legislative referendum on these issues – if already – for citizens and citizens to draw up a law, which they also make at the referendum, and finally confirm that the decision they confirm is also in effect legal and in force without any subsequent change in the policy of the National Assembly. We had here the Act of Operating Time Trades and other things. As much swearing as open trade was supposed to be on Sundays, it was the same option that produced the referendum that later legitimized that today's trade was open or even more open than it was at the time. This cannot be a way of political action and painting citizens and citizens to make a real decision in the referendum. That is why this attempt to do something with two articles like, comprehensive and, above all, a resolution for all Slovenian difficulties, is simply not an argument, so I will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry that some people won't hear when I tell them the second time that some people who feel committed to reading a mistake are always alerting us to what is written in the coalition agreement when they refer to just one thing related to the referendum. On the 47th page of the coalition agreement, to make it easier for them to find, in point 11.9 – The Constitutional Electoral System and the referendum, you will be able to read in the second paragraph: "The coalition partners will check the possibility of finding a broad enough consensus to change the referendum regime" and then round up the three things to change, "the introduction of a referendum on the basis of a human initiative, the quorum for the validity of the referendum, all referendums on the same day of the year". So those who always teach us how to look for consensus, how we are unable to accept the opposition's proposed hands for cooperation, are on the wrong track, because in such an important bill as they say that the one we have before us is forgetting that it requires a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members present. Therefore, if the purpose of the proposal is to be adopted is to be serious, then it is necessary to obtain agreement, to check whether there are any possibilities for such a law to be adopted. And that is exactly what the talks are about in the coalition agreement, so that we can check the possibility of finding a broad enough consensus to change the referendum regime. And there is no secret that it has been repeatedly denied, but among us are those who denied the possibility that any restriction on substantive issues should be acceptable to them, which should not be called for by the referendum, or that a quorum or quorum should be recorded. As for the quorum, when some say that those who feel that it is not a good solution for more referendum decisions to take on the same day, that it expresses a lack of sense for democracy or underestimation of people, let me point out that those who preach about democracy and teach democracy in this way claim in the same breath that people made a mistake in 2008 when they decided to do so. But voting at the referendum is an election vote. It is also a democratic way of making decisions. When it comes to democracy and willfulness, I consider participation or non-participation in the referendum or in elections to be an expression of the individual's free will, whether he participates or not. And Dr. Gantar's already figured out a few ways to find a reason for abstinence at the referendums. I think that when we compare ourselves with Switzerland and other countries, we forget one very important fact. When we vote in a legislative referendum, we pronounce ourselves on the whole law. This law, if I have a law before me, such as a family code or a pension law, it can be a law that has a few hundred articles. Let me tell you which one of us has an accurate picture of these articles as a whole. Yesterday we discussed the proposal for a law on prevention of employment and black work. The debate has shown that a number of debaters have not read the bill in detail, which has some 30 articles, and it has been shown that they have not read it, unless they have tried to mislead the public about what is proposed in the law. That is why I think it is impossible to expect people to make decisions on the same day about the whole of the law and have an accurate picture of it, because I do not believe in it, because I respect people and know a number of people who do not want to make decisions about it or against it when they do not know what they are deciding if they are not convinced that they are sufficiently educated about the content. And there are other things we could add here. Where the problem is and why a flood of referendums can be considered a suspension of the legislative branch of power. Those who preach about democracy are simply a certain relationship between the opposition and the coalition with the elections. And the coalition is assigned to take responsibility for the adoption of laws. However, in order for the opposition to acknowledge to the coalition that it has taken quality decisions, this is an illusion in our situation and in this mandate. In the case of the repeatedly cited RTV law, it is quoted as dissatisfaction and disregard for only those who have used it, but it is not said that some social partners or some part of the social partners have had an affirmative opinion on the law. And some other quotes, when there was talk of negligence and other things, were carefully ripped out of the whole and again it was a manipulation of torn quotations. About the costs. It was interesting to hear how he claimed in the same breath that those who claimed that in democracy they should not think about the costs, but before that he claimed that the justification of one referendum day was precisely that the costs were lower. Now I don't see a logical connection here in such ways, but, I don't know, probably all things aren't always completely clear to me. That's all about democracy. Those who refer to democracy require absolute decision-making. Let me know if you know any law that would be acceptable to everyone in all respects. He's not here. Because the difference between interest groups is one that determines the degree of satisfaction by law or not by this law. Of course, we had a chance to hear a lot more about one referendum day and the cost saved, and I would remind you of a very interesting situation. During the previous term of office, the coalition called for a consultative referendum on the provinces. I will not recall how difficult it was to find only uniformity in understanding the referendum results in such complex decision-making as we had in that case, but this is another story, and the low participation also speaks for itself. At that time, however, the opposition that I belonged to proposed when adopting the amendment decree, which would have moved the date of the referendum or referendum date from the 22nd to the 29th of June. You will not believe that those who are so cost-effective now and advocate a referendum day are 44 votes against and 26 votes against, rejected the transfer to 26 June, allowing both referendums to take place on 26 June. The second referendum would only answer the question of whether you are in favour of abolishing the anti-corruption Commission, a popularly called Kosovo Commission. Čukati, Černač, Grill, Grims, Hrovat, Jerovšek, Marinič, Petan, Friday, Tanko, Zamernik, Ziherl are only some of the forty who opposed this decision. So much for the memory of how we like to get things out of our memory, just like the participation of the President of the Government at the Commission's meeting on the supervision of security and intelligence services when they talked about archives, and the whole story in the media was why the President of the Government took part in this meeting. If I were to look for other reasons why I am against the introduction of a referendum day, as it is written here, although I must admit that I am quite pleased when some people are now talking about the 9th of May as the day of victory, they will not admit for a while or on other occasions that the war is over. But now article 32 states that Sunday or other part of the day of the referendum shall be set aside for the day of the vote. Then he says the second paragraph: "For the same day of the vote, two or more referendums may be announced." Thus, the present law offers the possibility to introduce a single day on which two referendums are held. I have proved this to you with one failed attempt, and everyone among us probably remembers that on the same day we had two important referendums, such as the NATO and EU referendums. And to remind you of one more detail, participation in both referendums was not the same. The participation on whether Slovenia should join the European Union was higher than the one that decided to join the European Union. Therefore, just the fact that there would be more referendums on the same day did not in itself guarantee that success or participation in the referendum would be higher. Now I'm going to tell you why I think a solution like this is better. I find it difficult to accept the fact that this year's flood of referendums, which we are promised, is a situation in which we will live forever. The dissatisfaction with the crisis and the social situation is now really higher and the acceptability of certain decisions is lower. And I believe it won't always be like this. The possibility of marriage exists, as it is said, but it seems much better to me that free will is open, with a two-thirds majority, with which this change should now be accepted, it is possible to change the date that is outside those dimensions for 30 and 45 days. Here, I think some things are worth mentioning, but what we will accomplish with these things, once again, if we refer to the fact that we want a proposal for a law to be adopted, then we have to ask ourselves whether we have taken any steps in this direction. I think that the proposed law has not taken such a step and that it is again one of the opposition's attempts to increase the number of bill proposals so that they can once again beat the coalition, as it is not open to accepting good proposals from the coalition. And just this involvement of the public in the drafting of laws, because I see here against the only author of the RTV Act, I would like to remind him that it is often already a very important fact that the creation or formation of the law is also an indication of openness to the initiatives of the interested public, the professional public and the civil initiative. And that was done in the RTV Act, at least in the case of the one who was rejected at the referendum. I am not commenting on the referendum outcome, but I am aware of the circumstances why it happened, what happened, but I would expect a good knowledge of constitutional matter to finally stop shaking falsely or even misinterpretation that his law had already been confirmed at the referendum. At the referendum on RTV last December, we voted on a government proposal for an RTV law. As she smiles so kindly, I would say that she should go into some kind of literary theoretical manual to see what it means in literary theory to be comical, what is humorous, and what is funny. But I'll take some categories easier. And just for the end, the worst joke tellers are the ones who laugh at their own jokes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative? Tina Terzan, Secretary of State, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. Given the great dissatisfaction expressed by Ambassador Tank, who is unfortunately now absent, on this occasion my Minister would like to make her excuse, while stressing that legislation allows the presence of the Secretary of State at the meetings of your assembly. In my term of office, I must say that I have had few opportunities to perform before you, because my Minister has performed this task with great loyalty and thoroughness. However, in order not to be an expert issue, I will dare to read the position until the referendum day in the publication of the Legislative Referendum organised by Dr Igor Kaucič, where it has already been determined that such an arrangement is undoubtedly rational and economical, but there are also serious concerns against it, relating to the reduction of the interest of voters in deciding on the question which is the subject of the referendum and the current referendum due to the timeliness of implementation. Due to the impact on the referendum outcome, the simultaneous implementation of the referendum and the elections may also be problematic. At the same time, some point to the Italian regime in which referendums in the electoral year are even banned a few months later. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the excessive departure of voting day is not appropriate for laws and acts which are the subject of a referendum governing the matter to be put into effect as soon as possible, although it is not laws which are adopted by emergency procedure. Otherwise, the legislative function of the National Assembly may be reversed. The postponement of the voting day can also be played by the proposer of a referendum request, not so much in terms of the legality of the referendum procedure as it is due to the unexpected decision of the referendum campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. He wants a possible word from the mags' proponent. Branko Grimes? He does.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you. First of all, I owe a few answers to my esteemed colleague Patrati. The viewers and the viewers, the direct transmission is a wonderful thing, were able to see for themselves whether you were acting funny or saying funny things in your performance, and that you certainly weren't trying to be humorous. As you can see, the viewers and viewers themselves make a good distinction between these three concepts, so there is no problem. First of all, with regard to one major mistake or, unfortunately, the reversal of facts. You said, Your Honor, that we are saying that the voters were wrong in 2008. No, you tricked them! It's something else. That's why you're blocking the investigation into the Patrio case so that people wouldn't get the right idea that this decision was taken at the time of the Robbery government, that it was the personal interests of someone who led – from your parliamentary group, the current-, former investigator, to use someone who was there who was the head of the competition case. If this fairy tale, with all its conflicts of interest that are already bordering on crime, is only a question on which side this investigator should reveal it to the public, then all these superstructures of these fairy tales you're trying to parasiate now would no longer be convincing. Therefore, in this panic you block the work of an investigator about Patria, and on the one hand the Government itself does not give the material; on the other hand, Members of the ruling coalition cry out that there is no material and therefore block it. You know, it's like a kindergarten, where kids hide their shovel first, and then they cry out loud, "Oh, there's no shovel, there's no shovel!" It's just the level of your political work. But you missed one embarrassing fact yourself. With this blockage of yours, with new and new games regarding the Patria investigator, you yourself admit that it was all a big dirty lie to prevent a political opponent and to overrun the state of Slovenia abroad. Just as much as an answer because you asked for it. Now, let's get to a tighter subject. Why are there so many referendums in Slovenia in the last period? The answer is simple. Since you have produced so many bad laws, which are clearly contrary to the public interest of the state of Slovenia, in the obvious interest of rapid development, because you have broken all social dialogue yourself because you are rejecting all good proposals of the opposition in your own impulse, then you are facing referendums because this is the only effective form of control and limitation of power in this legal order. And that's what hurts you, so you're willing to just talk about limiting the right to a referendum, but not to keep it in full effect, in full quality, because it's a democratic quality, and it's a democratic independent Slovenia. But you'd like to limit the subject, limit the quorum just so that I wouldn't have made some decision that you didn't like to have your authority unlimited. That is why I have already pointed out in the introduction, we are really only talking here today about the issue of power limitation, the fundamental democratic principle. Look at just two current cases. The Small Work Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act both went to the referendum exclusively and only because you first failed a conscious, planned social dialogue, at which, by the way, you swore in your own words all the time and because things were not agreed previously in the context of social dialogue, the unions, the students, all the others concerned, gathered signatures and faced with referendums. You're totally letting that go today. This is the current picture, this is the current situation, ladies and gentlemen, and this is entirely your own fault, so this is the problem of this country because you produce bad laws because you are working exactly against the principles that you swear to in words. What would you like to talk about? This kind of shows the decision made today in the government to want to have a quorum for the referendum and to delete some of the topics that obviously get on your nerves. I have previously pointed out the problem of this approach. Look, the constitution puts people directly at the referendum. The institution of power in democracy is a people and you would like to restrict the institution, the sole institution of authority, to its right of decision, while this Parliament would be unlimited in its decision-making. When you talk about the quorum, let us all be aware that participation, not only in Slovenia, is a world phenomenon, in elections it is slowly diminishing. With few rare exceptions, but to a greater extent, they confirm the general rule. The participation of people in the elections is declining. What does that mean in practice? If you set up a quorum for a referendum, and at any height already, then participation in elections that will give unlimited power to the legislative branch of government may be lower in the adoption of laws than the required participation in a quorum in a referendum that could reverse the decision taken. With legal and legitimate principles, both theatres are absurd. I hope we agree on that at least. It just doesn't work. Now, consider something else, those of you who yell that we urgently need a quorum. What about this Parliament? What kind of rules does he have? A Member may be elected in this House because we have a proportional electoral system, which receives only a few 100 votes, and there are some of you in this House, some of you in here in the smaller parties. How many a few hundred votes are there if you compare this to participation, to the number of those who voted in the elections? It's part of the percentage. However, the adoption of one law in this Parliament is decided by one single vote. It's the same. No matter how many votes each Member has received. In this case, the vote of a Member who has only one hundred and several voters, and his decision is legitimate, but if 100,000 voters come to the referendum, that is to say something that has a thousand times the legitimacy of logic, and you would ban it. No, that's not valid because there's not enough quorum. Let him understand who can. Is that equality? Is that legitimacy? Is that democracy? It's just a question of how you run from the responsibility to give your decisions to people. This is really the case in the legislative referendum that people have the opportunity to make a direct decision on some content, only an opportunity has to be given. And it is a question of how to preserve this quality, the democratic quality. We could find a common ground. Those who misquoted as presented in the introduction ignored that I had read the whole paragraph and also warned that a consensus could be reached in that coalition contract of three points in one, and that such a provision was obviously necessary to be adopted. And that would be to introduce one referendum day as a rule, of course, still with the possibility of exceptions when it comes to urgent matters, so that there would be no harmful consequences to which the Government, with general opposition, misrepresents and contests a coalition contract that only establishes on a legal level, which is very interesting, but let us leave it. This point, at which consensus would be possible, obviously does not smell because you would like restraints, only that you really want to know how to limit. This will not be the case because it is a question of the principle of the limitation of power. Not just you here and now who would obviously need a referendum to make decisions at government level. If he holds the information I have heard today, it can happen that, by repealing a contract, he will have to pay compensation to the parties to this contract, to a competing firm that has been suing for years, and, by the way, it is only this company that he is obliged to have a crowning argument to sue a million damages, and in the end he will still have to buy something because some former LDS and SD government has committed itself to it about five, eight years ago, of course, among the international public, and will end up paying the same thing three times because someone who is a true friend of friends needs to be given the opportunity to obtain compensation. And that's the whole game. Any similarity to the decision taken today is merely random and I apologize for it. In the areas of the legislative referendum, there is no reason to limit this to a priori. Why? The question is that people must be able to decide everything that is being decided in Parliament. I also argue that we should actually apply the possibility of a real constitutional referendum, as Switzerland knows, of course, under the appropriate sufficiently strict conditions that the Constitution is protected. Protection is justified only on the issue of the Constitution. But there is no protection for you on the issue of laws. It is a matter of any quorum only in the desire to prevent any decision and to allow unlimited decision-making within Parliament and thus unlimited authority. Of course, there can be no restriction on questions at the referendum. We are all bound by the Constitution and the Constitution is the foundation that binds everything. He binds Parliament, he binds the people, he binds all the institutions of this country. And this, I say, is the only legal framework within which people must be allowed to decide when it comes to laws and all other key things that concern people's lives. That's the only thing right, the only thing democratic. You yourself have advocated equality in the words of the coalition. It's the only one that's equal. For both of us there must be the same valet and this valet can only be the Slovenian Constitution. On the question of how to reduce the cost of maintaining the quality of the current referendum regime, which is without restrictions or upgrades, perhaps with the issue of the people's initiative through the Swiss model, of which there was once a consensus, you wanted to go again with restrictions and therefore that consensus was not voted on. On this issue, however, how to reduce costs is very simple. Vote for this law, which is an appropriate basis. The date, all other things can be agreed upon and can be reduced costs and facilitated participation in the referendum, that is to say in the management of public affairs for all people [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes, time's up. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening an application for discussion. I'm asking interested people to sign up. Two advertised debaters, each available for 5 minutes. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. On today's agenda, we can peacefully say that this is one of those points with which the opposition wants to spend as much time as possible in Parliament in this mandate as in the work of the Government. What I am particularly concerned about is that it is trying to encourage interested groups or Members, in short, all those who can lead to the call for a referendum, by this proposal when we talk about the day the referendums are announced. Here I really wonder whether it would not be more reasonable for Parliament to become some kind of amateur activity, a non-professional activity that will only monitor the work of the Government, and it will be like the State Council every so many meetings and then leave people to decide at the referendums. I think we need to be aware that this is one of those forms of democracy that will never lead to a solution, but it is only and only, in this case, that it is an attempt to prevent the implementation or adoption of legislation, which can then be followed by a number of measures, which, at this time in particular, are aimed at overcoming the most effective consequences of the economic and financial crisis. When the opposition encourages these discussions, I can say calmly, it is not really up to it that problems are being solved, but it is trying to reach a mechanism with which problems cannot be solved. All this time that has been spent today can be placed peacefully in the quota of the time Parliament has spent uselessly, especially because a two-thirds majority of all Members present in Parliament need to be reached in order to make such a change. I'm sure the opposition doesn't have that. And if the government has tried many times to warn itself on their part, if the government is not prepared for dialogue, does not take civil initiatives into account, the government does not consider this third, but, in this case, the opposition is not prepared to comply with those basic criteria and criteria that indicate that the proposal for such a law is actually a waste of time because it does not have enough support to be able to adopt this law at all. I must say that I can peacefully express my protest against such a functioning of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you. I must say, I am extremely pleased with this forerunner, for he has shown in the best way that he has clearly failed to understand what this is all about in the ruling coalition. It's about money, ladies and gentlemen, about money and savings. And twice. For the first time, it is a question of money, which is about the implementation of fundamental democratic institutions such as the referendum. Here, each tender, if implemented separately, goes to a few million euro of the public budget's tax money. I hope so, Mr. Weber, you know that. This is said to be true if more referendums are held at the same time, at least one part of this money can safely be saved, compared with each referendum being carried out separately. From this point of view, therefore, the referendum day is without a doubt justified. At least so much, if not more, is justified when we look at it from the point of view of the ordinary citizen, ordinary citizens, because they also have costs, twice. By inviting them to a referendum, when they have to take time, time is money, and going to a referendum if they choose to do so, and perhaps even having additional expenses for it themselves. If you get in a car, in some cases people drive for miles. As far as I know, the record is about 30 kilometers away when people go far to the polls and back. They're paying for gas, they're paying for car robbery, so it's also from a national economic perspective, which you're forgetting, some real cost. And in this case, the costs are combined into only one, all additional referendums on the same day after one has already been announced, and in this part do not mean absolutely any added cost anymore. People only take their time once, only take one ride. You forgot about that! And it's about people. In every policy, it should be for people, but you're obviously in some other interest. Your main concern is that your authority is unlimited and in fact everything you do is to cover it up. This has become more than clear today, but it has already become apparent in your parliamentary vote, when you rejected one referendum day for several requests already submitted, in the case that was misquoted by one lady from the previous period, the other referendum was not, of course, because those requests were not at all, but this was an option. On the other hand, the question arises as to how to restrict the authorities, what the costs of bad authority are, in fact, when they make wrong decisions. When it comes to marriage, one bad law can cause tremendous damage to the country of Slovenia must, at least people have this opportunity to decide directly. They have it after the stop, it's our duty to make it possible for them. This is a fundamental democratic principle, because they are carriers. Not as in that debate I mentioned earlier, however, one of the Minister's ministers, at one of the previous referendums, said that they were now responsible for the damage caused because she had forgotten to foresee the possibility that her law would not be adopted and there was no guardian in existing legislation. Nor did she, once it was clear that the law had fallen, adequately propose other measures. In short, her marriage is best, if accidentally rejected, it is necessary to replace a people who are obviously bad, irresponsible and so on. This is a reflection from the previous period, and I don't know that we can't agree on that. This does not belong in a democratic world. Democracy is that people have the right to make decisions. All modern democracies, including those that do not yet know the Institute of the Referendum, are also taking this very seriously in the context of new technologies, within the framework of everything the world today allows to attract people to the greatest possible involvement in the management of public affairs. But you're going in the opposite direction. When you object to this when you propose different forms of limiting the referendum, you want people to reject it, prevent them from participating in the management of public affairs, so that the apparently ruling only avant-garde can tell them what they really need. No, people have the right to decide for themselves what they want, what they need, what they think is professional and what they don't want. And if a marriage is confirmed twice at a referendum, thank God.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u107	Unfortunately, there is no possibility of replicating time sharing, in accordance with Article 71 there is no possibility of replicas. You have spent your time for five minutes, so you will have to look for another opportunity in this term. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 4 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. I remind you that in accordance with Article 90, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present are necessary for the adoption of the decision. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a final account. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u108	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to make a brief introduction to today's presentation. The presentation of the 2009 State Budget Final Account should take into account the circumstances affecting both the preparation and the implementation of the 2009 State Budget. The impact of the economic crisis on public financial revenues was significant and, therefore, in 2009, the effects of the economic crisis were significantly reduced. The achievement of fiscal targets was the biggest challenge for public finances in Slovenia. We've done two rebalancings. The impact on the Slovenian economy was dual. Through the failure of the interbank market, we intervened in the functioning of our financial system, and due to the decline in export demand, we had to avoid a spiral decline in employment through classical Kenyan measures. Public finance policy was developed between two key objectives in 2009, between the goal of achieving macroeconomic stability and the goal of supporting long-term growth. The adoption of anti-crisis measures that led to an exploratory and anti-cyclical fiscal policy increased the risk of public finances stability in the medium and long term. In practice, this means that fiscal policy was before the dilemma whether the Maastricht criteria setting maximum public deficits and debt should be sufficient and to what extent it should follow the Lisbon objectives that determine the developmental orientation of economic policies. We were here looking for a middle way. The government has designed measures to support the financial sector, measures to limit the transfer of the financial crisis to the real economy, measures to launch an ambitious development transition, with an indicator of sufficient investment in R & D in both the public and private sectors, and measures to provide social programmes in support of the population in 2009 in line with the Common European Crisis Response Framework. This framework has been prescribed. In addition to falling public finances, in addition to increasing social expenditure, we had to create 1.2% of the gross domestic product of additional demand, which we focused mainly on actions in the labour market and on financing developmental conversion. The package of public financial incentives has been developed taking into account the characteristics of the Slovenian economy, in particular the smallness, openness and its transition from an economy with extensive growth to an economy at the upper frontier of economic development, in particular due to the operation of knowledge in various economic processes and upgrades. The main purpose of the measures taken was to limit the negative impact of the decline in external demand on production and employment. The subsidisation of reduced working time, the most important and publicly-funded measure of a temporary nature, was also aimed at maintaining employment. State measures to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis on the labour market have slowed down employment. Thus, the decline in the number of payees, i.e. employees, reached 2.2% at the end of 2009 and was 2.1% lower than forecast. In addition to maintaining employment, investments represent an important part of public financial policy in times of crisis, with an emphasis on accelerated absorption and maximisation of available European funds. In 2010, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the Government prepared a proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 and forwarded it to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for revision. The Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion in its audit report on a proposal for a final account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 for all the national budget balances, on the grounds that the revenues and benefits as well as expenditure and expenditure in the balance sheet were too low. In addition, the Court of Auditors has identified several actions of budgetary users that were not in line with the rules on the implementation of the budget, such as employment, wages, public procurement, commitment, allocation of funds and the like. As the main reason for the negative opinion, the Court of Auditors pointed out the investment of deposits in business banks, since it considered that deposits should be recorded as loans to banks, the depositing of deposits in business banks would, in the view of the Court of Auditors, constitute the recovery of the banking system, since in 2009 the State, through the issuance of bonds and treasury coins, was subject to favourable conditions [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] billions of euros. [[...]] We have regulated this legal relationship, defined the deposits as deposits and recorded them on an extra-balance sheet basis, and at the same time introduced the possibility of repairing the final account with the amendment of the law, so that we can also implement these corrections for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I'm giving the president a word. Mr Andre Visiak for presentation of the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u110	Good afternoon, distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the Commission has repeatedly dealt with the final accounts of the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, since we rarely have two negative opinions from the Court of Auditors on about 5% of the government budget deficit and 5.8% of the public financial deficit. We considered this closing account at the 9th emergency meeting in advance as a proposal for a recommendation to the Government regarding the proposal for a final account and at two meetings, namely in the first part in October, 29 October, and then also on 25 January. At its 9th urgent meeting, on 9 September, the Commission proposed to the Government, when it addressed the recommendation, that it prepare the necessary legislative changes in order to be able to correct the final bill. The Commission for the supervision of public finances felt inadequate that, despite the serious errors identified by the auditor, there was no longer a proposer, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the possibility of correcting the final account in accordance with the auditors' recommendations. It is therefore questionable to accept such a closing account, which has serious recorded errors and shortcomings, and then it becomes doubtful whether the adoption of such a closing account would make any sense. I am pleased that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has been able to agree with the Government to amend the Public Finance Act, which was recently adopted and allows for the final bill to be rectified in accordance with the views of the auditor at the request of the National Assembly. At its October meetings, the Commission considered in particular what those key shortcomings were. Let me remind you once again that the final account has received two negative opinions, both for the statements and for the correct implementation of the budget. The most obvious error and the reason for the negative opinion on the correctness of enforcement, according to the Court of Auditors, is this issue regarding the means to rehabilitate the banking system. It is close to EUR 2 billion received by the Republic of Slovenia by the sale or issue of government bonds, and this money has been deposited as deposits in banks and has thus in some way indebteded the country and helped with money to banks, and has not been properly recorded since this should be recorded among the expenditure in the financial receivables and investments account, as it is a matter of deposits in business banks. As two billion euros is involved, it is more than obvious that the dimension of this error is exceptional. While the government has achieved the objective of this measure, this is to stabilise the financial system, the Court of Auditors points out that it has not done so in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Law and the Regulation for the granting of loans and has assessed that these procedures have been carried out incorrectly. The Court of Auditors finds some other irregularities, namely repeated irregularities in the field of public procurement. In particular, they would point out the need to establish a record of contracting entities with negative references, which was not committed, and then the issue of financing indirect budgetary users was also highlighted. It has been found that there has been an irregularity in this area for many years because business is not sufficiently transparent. At the end of the discussion, at the time of the already adopted Public Finance Act, the Commission did not adopt a decision to adopt a final account by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which means, in other words, that the Commission proposes not to adopt it. However, it adopted two other decisions, namely, to fix corrections with the Court of Auditors, to fix corrections and to impose a correction to the Government for the submission of a new proposal for a final account. The opinion of the Commission is that we could introduce a new law on public finances in this final account, correct it and be more credible than this document, which is currently being adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for a word that will be appropriately short and will be mentioned in a few basic points. Let me first say that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity we estimate that the issue that will be discussed today has already been dealt with on several occasions in some other bodies and also in the National Assembly, that the same things are repeated and that there is no particular need for us to repeat the same content of the statement or position today and to repeat excessively. Our Group's decision is to vote in favour of adopting a final account, not to repeat the exercise that has already been seen, when one of the final accounts was rejected at the time of the transfer of power, more for prestigious reasons than for any other reason at that time, so we assess, and when this, because of the so-called "return measures", has been avenged in significant political difficulties and problems and unnecessary work and the tightening of the positions between the two neighbouring countries. The other thing we would like to point out is that there is actually a debate on two dimensions of the budget. For the first time on how it was implemented and how it assessed the correctness of this implementation and, of course, the booking of business events, and for the second time, if the first one does not have such a very direct impact on the everyday life of our population, the content of the budget implementation has a significant impact on how it affects the economy, the financial situation and, of course, the social and other situations of the lives of our people and people. As regards the correctness of the implementation of the budget, as regards expertise, as far as transparency is concerned and any other adjective could be added to it, it has not been possible to fully reconcile its conflicting views. We estimate, however, that both the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission for the supervision of public finances in relation to negative opinions, corrective measures and debates in this regard have acted properly. We estimate that this is not just a matter of political ambition, but it is a matter of identifying inconsistencies, mistakes, illegalities that need to be rectified, and the Commission on Public Finances has made quite a few proposals in this regard, and we can say that proposals that have even come across fertile soils and are being implemented today. Therefore, we are also convinced in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that the worst measure required for the discharge of those responsible was not necessary, nor have we voted in favour of it, since some of the requirements and recommendations have been implemented in the meantime. Some of the laws have been passed and we have also been assured that some other changes in regulation are already being prepared. The second part, which is to be discussed and which is very important, is the part that concerns the content of the budget, as it was initially fed, then carried out through the expenditure side and displayed. This part is more about everyday life, and we cannot be oversatisfied with it. It is undeniable that revenues were significantly lower than expected, as the Minister mentioned earlier today, to have had to be rebalanced twice and that revenues were not only lower in the field of tax revenue but also in the area of poor European funds. Therefore, the forecast of a higher deficit as forecast has also been realised and the debt is therefore increasing compared to the gross social product and therefore the burdens, indirect burdens on insurance or guarantee as compared to the gross social product are also increasing. It was also poor that there was much less investment, whether it was the investment expenditure of the country or investment transfers, and we are convinced in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that it was not a key fault for this Ministry of Finance, but one of the most important culprits is one of the more slow-acting ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the area that does not parise on projects and programmes, and does not provide the basic one that we can also intervene in space with investments. We do well to assess what has been happening mainly through the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons measures, which have eased social tensions and prevented social dispersion, and not all measures have probably been best measured here, but we believe that estimates have been made that more than tens of thousands of jobs have been maintained, so it has not all gone to outright unemployment, so that these assessments are correct. We are certainly less satisfied with some measures in the area of real sector funding, because we know that the schemes have not worked as planned. We know that the financial chains have broken down, and this, not just because of this, has led to major problems in the real sector and also to major problems that have subsequently taken place in the social field. If I conclude, let me reiterate that we will vote in favour of the final bill being accepted, I hope that the findings or assessments heard in the last days to collect that we are on the path of recovery are such that we can look them in the eye within a month and say we are not overreacting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u114	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr President. The 2009 Final Account proposal reflects the state and implementation of the budget at the height of the financial crisis in the world and Slovenia. As the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has pointed out, many structural weaknesses have come to the fore, especially the fact that during the period of economic growth, the economic race was too much based on technologically unrequited industrial production, overheated growth in construction and traditional service activities, which has reduced the competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy. The overheating of the economy at a time of high economic growth and pre-election euphoria also made it extremely difficult to implement the budget in 2009. Slovenia could be much better prepared for recession if the previous government carried out the urgent structural reforms carried out by the current government and the current parliament and created reserves for worse times, but as my father used to say, when children have money, seed farmers, it has not done so. That is why the manoeuvre of the current government has been limited and the economy has been over-indebted long before the start of the crisis. That is why the Government had to prepare new and new measures to address, in particular, the credit crunch in the economy, to preserve jobs and to prevent the growth of poverty threats. Therefore, the rapid return to the path of economic recovery and re-energizing the well-being of the population is a major challenge, especially since the economic crisis has made the state of public finances and the availability of funding resources significantly worse, and the level of potential GDP has also decreased. With regard to the Court of Auditors’ audit, it should be pointed out that the Court of Auditors’ opinion on the 2009 accounts draws attention to some of the errors already present in the 2007 and 2008 budgets and caused by the previous government, which is why the surplus shown in the 2007 final budget account was merely a fiction. Thus, for example, payments of funds to beneficiaries for investing in the public telecommunications network and compensation to victims of war and post-war violence were not shown during ongoing transfers. With regard to the errors identified in the 2009 final budget account, it should be pointed out that both the Government and the National Assembly have already prepared a basis for remedying these errors by adopting the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act and the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, where the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Compensation Society is strictly regulated, so that the Court operates on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia when carrying out entrusted tasks. On the basis of the adopted law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence in 2011, the State and the Slovenian Compensation Company will settle the situation in return until 2002, which could be regulated by previous governments and former finance ministers. With regard to correcting errors in the final accounts, however, it should be pointed out that so far there has been no legal basis for this. This was adopted in January 2011 with amendments to the Public Finance Act, allowing for the correction of the final accounts of the 2010 budget if the Court of Auditors finds the shortcomings again. At the same time, it should be pointed out that amendments to the law governing public finances already for the preparation of the 2010 accounts provide that an integral part of the final account is also a pooled balance sheet showing the funds and liabilities to the resources. In fact, all the obligations of the State are presented in a transparent manner. With regard to the implementation of the 2009 budget, we can see that the Government has made a significant shift this year in drawing on European funds, as the State budget ended the year with € 155 million in surplus in the balance with the European Union, mainly as a result of the efficient absorption of funds for the implementation of agricultural and structural policy. It is also important for the European Union to be able to draw on European Union funds in 2009 that the Government has taken measures to simplify and accelerate its activities in drawing on cohesion funds through the introduction of prepayments to beneficiaries, measures to optimise the operation of the whole system by reducing the time from the state budget to the recovery from the European Union budget and by accelerating the inflows to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. A reduction in the payment deadlines for investment transfers to municipalities and indirect budgetary users was also introduced, thus also ensuring payment from the State budget on the day before the maturity of payment of the situation of operators. Financial instruments for the accelerated absorption of European funds have also been introduced. Procedures for the preparation and validation of instruments are also simplified. As a result of these measures, there has been an improvement in the dynamics of European spending, which has allowed the net state budget situation to be even better in 2010 than in 2009, since the country received more than €326 million from the European Union in 2010. Since the Government has proposed measures that take account of the Court of Auditors' opinion and because a legal basis has been adopted to correct the final budget account, the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a final budget account for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u116	Dearly beloved, welcome again. In opening, I should like to point out that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will follow the Commission's conclusions on the supervision of public finances and will not support the 2009 accounts. This will open up the possibility of necessary corrections to this final account following the already adopted Public Finance Act, which means that a more reliable final account can be obtained in the future, which will more accurately record all business events in accordance with the recommendations of the Supreme Auditor, the Court of Auditors. I think that this should be in the interest, regardless of the political preferences that everyone in this high assembly has. The final budget account for 2009 is a financial document and is at the same time a financial document during the financial and economic crisis. The financial crisis has nothing to do with the Court’s twice negative opinion. There is absolutely no link between the negative position and the financial crisis, so the financial crisis has not led to a negative opinion. The negative opinion was caused by those who implemented the budget or recorded business events. Therefore, the reply to the financial crisis, with the Court of Auditors’ twice negative opinion, is completely depressed and a major misappropriation by the Slovenian public. Let's go to the final account first. I hope, Minister, that we will never see anything like this in Slovenia again, as is the final account in 2009. The 2009 final account records a narrower budget deficit, which is said to be a deficit in the tighter budget spending of 4.95% and in the overall public financial use of the deficit of 5.8%, this is a unique one in the last decade of Slovenia's history, and I hope that we will no longer experience such a one. And I hope that we will not experience the fact that we also have two negative opinions on the correctness of implementation in these deficits, as well as on the accounts of the budget. What's it gonna be? It will be that these deficits have an impact on the revenue of the state budget due to a reduction in tax revenues, but no measures have been taken on the expenditure side. That's the key. Any responsible financial authority should also reduce expenditure with reduced revenues. Apparently, in 2009, the Government, when preparing two rebalancings, did not realize this and did not reduce the expenditure, especially the running expenditure of the country, due to reduced tax inflows and other revenues of the state budget. This has led to such a large budget deficit as well as a public financial deficit. And that's bad and it's hitting us today. More. If we look only at the implementation of the budget, we can see that virtually 100 % of the so-called fixed expenditure, such as wages, social transfers and the like, however, investment expenditure and investment transfers are carried out between 80 % and 90 %, which means that in 2009 it was not saved on current expenditure, which goes from hand to mouth, but on investments, which also led to a decrease in revenue and consequently lower economic growth in the coming years. So this is also a major problem of this closing account. The problem of the final account is also that, for example, some €220 million of planned expenditure related to European projects has not been realised. Thus, only 73% of the EU funds were realised. Here again it is worth noting that the tax revenues, in particular the corporate income tax, were realised by 100 million less than envisaged. So, also, planning problems, we're talking about a twice-balanced budget, middle and end of the year, you've had major planning and realisation problems. Here I would like to return to the fact that the financial and economic crisis has nothing to do with the fact that the Ministry of Finance has received twice the negative opinion of the Government, both for the statements and for the correctness of the execution for the 2009 accounts. I think it's very important to stress one covert resolution of the banking system. Indeed, the Slovenian banking system was in difficulty because, due to the financial crisis, the unsuspecting situation of many lending companies required a reprogramme of this loan, so some new credit potential was actually used in particular for already concluded transactions, that at the same time there was a contraction in the interbank market and that Slovenia had a number of obligations to pay out the loans. As a result, there was no or no fresh money, and in some way, the banking system was repaired by the State selling and issuing bonds and the purchase was deposited as deposits to banks and thus allowed some hidden state aid to banks. Even if the Slovenian Government had decided on such a form, it should have followed the prescribed procedures, which it had not done, so it earned a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. I think this problem of unhealthy and treating the financial system and the banking system is two years after that, which is now extremely topical. We don't have an answer, a respected minister, what and how we're going to solve a banking system that is infected by poor investment in credits from companies that have been proprietaryly consolidated and have spent a lot of money on it. They did not invest money in some products, in a development that would generate new value, but more or less turned it over to some equity acquisitions or consolidations. That's why this mission is still ahead of us. The recapitalisations, which are widely discussed in the media, will only be a patch at the wound of the financial system. We had a conversation with Mr Jašević on the Commission to oversee public finances almost six months ago, which says that serious measures would be expected to amount to up to a billion euros, which concerns only the New Ljubljana Bank. In fact, I am very afraid that this financial sector, which is also a recovery of the economy, still suffers the same problems as it has suffered in 2009 and that the result is also insatiable economic activity and a number of problems that we are also dealing with in this assembly and will deal with tomorrow, such as payment non-discipline and other problems of access by economic operators to credit resources. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate to pay a lot of attention to this area in the future and not to take such innovative approaches or at least not to carry them out in the way you did in 2009, in order to earn a negative opinion. I am also pleased that because of the activities of the Slovenian Democratic Party through the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which I am leading, we have achieved this novelty, that it is possible to conclude an account if there are so many irregularities that it is found that it will gain twice a negative opinion, correct, harmonise and correct it in accordance with the views of the auditors. We've opened up that possibility. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Government is that we cannot implement this novelty for 2009. We have had a different opinion on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. We considered that if it was good will, it could also be done in 2009. For 2009, too, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors could draw up measures to be taken by the Government to remove or correct in the final account and to re-submit to the National Assembly a final account, thereby allowing for the adoption of a new Law on Public Finance, and then adopt a more credible final account in this Parliament, which would better show the accounts and the implementation of the budget in 2009. Unfortunately, I see that the largest coalition party will not support this approach, will support the final account and will thus cover its minister. I would also like to draw attention to the comparison, the closure of the 2007 and 2009 accounts. The final account in 2007 was disputed for the current coalition because it was the first to show also the budgetary and public financial surplus, this was a novelty, therefore it had to be discredited, and this was done in such a way that you made an extraordinary mistake by misrepresenting returns to investors in the public telecommunications network, for which the Republic of Slovenia transferred 10% of the shares to the Slovenian Compensation Society and from this address could be paid to Telekom or from its sources. This error, which was the reason for the complications in this House two years ago, this error, which you have so highly set up that you triggered the political crisis, you have even told her that you rejected the proposed partnership 2 plus 10 because of this opposition behaviour, this mistake with these unfortunate Telekom shares you repeated until 2011, because it was only this year that the law was passed that otherwise allows for the display of these transactions. So two more years after you assessed this as the greatest sin, you did the same. And now this political dimension of those visions appears, not some professional financial dimension that you were happy to reveal back then. I would be extremely happy if we could talk here today about a few ten million euro deficits, which in fact was not a surplus or a surplus, but unfortunately we are talking about 1.5 to 2 billion minus that we have for 2009. These are, respectable, major problems and these problems will also appear and open up in the future, because any such minus will cause one great burden on public finances even in the future, even if these minuses are imposed on each other and we will produce between 6 billion and 7 billion minus at the end of this term. I'm just talking about the balance of income and expenditure, I'm not talking about guarantees and other things that are still burdensome. Therefore, I would like to say in the end that we do not want in this House, a respected minister, such a closing account. Such a final account with a deficit of 5 % of GDP and a double negative opinion. That's all. We are always talking about the deficit compared to the gross domestic product. It would always be a good comparison with income. We need to know that we have revenue of about 8.5 billion and we have expenditure of about 10 billion. So we have a deficit of 20% if we're talking about revenue, not 5%. It may sound small to someone 5%, but it is not 5% of the budget's realisation or revenue, but it is 5% of the gross domestic product, which is three times higher, or even more, than the budget itself. That's why I think such a deficit is unacceptable. It is good, however, that you put the consolidation of public finances first, which we considered yesterday, but at the same time I am disappointed that the exit strategy that was adopted and sang, some year ago we saw it in this Parliament, is much more ambitious than the implementation of budgets, in the documents that have been sent to Parliament. It is said that you do not stick to those numbers, those numbers are more ambitious and some forecasts and adopted documents are far less ambitious. I hope that we will see a better, better, not better, but at least a more agreeable document in the form of a final account in 2010. At that time, of course, I appeal to all Members not to be so politically friendly, but to apply those provisions of the Public Finance Act and to give the Government a retrial.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u118	Good afternoon, Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are considering the closing account for 2009 and, at first glance, it seems that we are dealing with some requested document and these events are quite far away. It is certainly also a fact that in 2011 we can no longer influence what was happening in 2009. After some experience in this House, I must say that it was quite expected, which was already present in the positions of the parliamentary groups, that consideration of the closing account began to a great extent, which surprises me, even from the coalition, our Government, your Government, the previous mandate. Unfortunately, we also started this work in the National Assembly in this way when the final accounts were adopted in 2007. At that time, in the Slovenian People's Party, we warned that there was probably no point in arguing over accounting standards and whether it was 40 million plus or 9 million minus and that what was supposed to be around 600 million in 2009 is more important than 1.6 billion minus. As we can see, this black forecast is only a little deeper. Sadly, though, we do not adhere to the wisdom that we need to learn from mistakes, nor to the fact that it is best to learn from the mistakes of others. However, in a document such as today, I think it is right to take this as a supervisory, warning function or, if we are to say so, a sobering one. I have already said to the President of the Government in the 2009 budget rebalancing of the budget, we have accepted it, I remember exactly at the time that the workers in Mura were saying that it was our opportunity, and above all our responsibility to tell the Slovenians and Slovenians very clearly through the adoption of the budget documents, what a serious situation Slovenia is in today. I think we are underestimating this seriousness of the situation, but, above all, in these two years we have not been able to convince those outside this Parliament, that the social partners, trade unions, pensioners, students, that the situation is serious and that public finances must be held accountable, especially in the long term, and that we will also have stable finances in the future. If we focus on the 2009 budget, and by the number of the final account, we see that we had as much as 9.2 billion expenditure and 7.5 billion revenue. I think we need to re-emphasize what the mag said. The viscous that we are not talking about a 5% deficit, but that we have actually spent 23% more than we collected taxes. I think it is right that we know this, but above all that this message goes to the public. From this point of view, there is a greater responsibility to our budget. If we get this into the household budget. The household, which has thousands of euros of monthly income, spends thousands of EUR 230 per month. We know that this is 230 euros more, and any housewife would find it relatively quickly that it will not be possible to do so for a long time. And if we say otherwise, we have produced €850 deficits in the budget. If we know that there will be jobs, right from those who create new jobs, this deficit must be returned, we must be aware that this new added value generates about 1/3 of the population, that those who create new value are charged by EUR 2 000 500. It will take several years for such debts to be repaid. Unfortunately, we can no longer have in 2008, when incomes, as we can see, were in some way real, but in fact fictitious, because so much of the income from corporate tax and so on was not realistic. However, this situation is now very serious, because from that relatively balanced situation, about 8.5 billion passed on the expenditure side to 9.2, and we reduced the revenue to 7.5. In this part, I think it is also right to say that in this year's Zpiz from these funds, of these 9.2 billion, it was necessary to give a billion 240 million, which is 14% of this expenditure, and I think this is also an answer to whether in Slovenia there is a need for reform in the area of pension insurance, because these funds go precisely to the end of the pension. The data, which is in some ways alarming, is only deepening in 2010, is the area of investment expenditure and investment transfers, as we had 1.7 billion deficits, investment expenditure and transfers was only 1.1 billion, it is said that the current expenditure for 600 million is already over all tax revenues. We must be aware that we now have European resources in the revenue side, that these are also mostly investment funds and that in 2010, the picture is even more radical, worse, real investment expenditure is still falling and we really need to ask ourselves what this policy means to eat from the mouth in those years 10 and in the following year more than we create. I think it is right to say two more words about drawing on European funds. Here in the position of the largest parliamentary group, we have heard that pumping is greater. Here. In 2009, we had more resources than we paid in European cash registers, and in 2010 the situation was even better. In view of the correctness of the knowledge of this matter, let us recognise that the European financial perspective is from 2007 to 2013, that key documents in Europe were adopted in the second half of 2007 and that it was possible to draw on this financial perspective only by the end of 2008 and now in the coming years. And if we know that in seven years, together with agricultural money, about five billion of those funds coming to Slovenia and that we will be paying about three billion in this seven-year European cash market during this seven-year period, we have a positive around 500 million in these first four years, more of the funds received than the money paid, and that we have a reserve of one billion and a half to the profit, it is said that we can draw more from European funds over the next three years. This work would have changed the legal basis that we have all confirmed and that it is correct that, unlike the previous years, the finance ministry has been slightly softened in this area in terms of advances and similar matters. I have always been critical of drawing on European funds, especially to the Ministry of Environment and Space, where a whole range of cohesion projects in the field of transport infrastructure, in the areas of waste disposal, cleaning facilities, sewerages, water pipelines, that procedures are too slow, too complicated. Not to mention what it means to obtain the necessary documentation when those responsible for environmental protection, nature, culture are included in the same ministry. In this country, something will have to be done on this segment, so that in the future, in these three years, the four available for us to draw these funds will actually draw on them. We must be aware that the way to pay for the European cash register is very clear and we will not miss it, but we will get the money back after the programmes we have adopted if we are operational. And these operations are missing. There is also a lack of a view of this government that more resources go to the local-regional level. A number of such measures were mainly in the field of efficient energy use, where invitations could also be for schools, kindergartens, such as hospital, college, secondary schools, this year we hear that also for students' homes, the home of older citizens. I hope that the Government has not conspired against the local environment and that the means for efficient use of energy will not be used only where the founding country is established. I think that the municipalities have shown themselves in the Development of the Regions programme, that they can draw on these funds and that, in fact, these mechanisms need to be put in place so that this pumping can take place in a similar way in the future. As far as the budget is concerned and the spending itself. In the Slovenian People's Party, we keep reminding ourselves that it is not easy to reduce costs, especially labour costs, material costs, but we still share an opinion and what we note in each such document, that we should take a more decisive step together and reach consensus in society, that these costs should also be reduced, either by measures to limit employment or by measures to reduce these material costs, which I think should happen. However, I think we have not yet reached out to what will be necessary in Slovenia more than ever before, and what the OECD report has also warned us about, that we are too demanding in a wide range of areas in standards, in standards, and that we do not have a coordinated view of what is being created in this country, how much gross social income is being generated and what regulations we are setting up in different areas in the field of these so-called social activities. In this step and in this area, I see large reserves, but we will have to step together in some way and slowly accept that there will be a need to do something, such as in kindergarten. Let me be very specific, we all know that each department costs about 200 000 euros per standard, which is strict. When we went to a nine-year-old there was no problem with regulations to reduce by two, three children in the department, but now that there is more fertility when there is a shortage of departments, we have major problems. I know that many people in this country will not like what I am talking about, but I think it will be necessary to go to this field sooner than before and to reach this social agreement and public spending, and to allocate public funds to where they belong. We believe that there is a demanding step in the area of employment, a step towards reducing, in particular limiting, and, on the other hand, we see information that is particularly relevant in certain sectors of public consumption, that more people have been employed and that this sector is expanding. I think a society with this 35 billion gross social income on this expenditure side has set too high standards. We may have to cut through temporary measures during this time of crisis. If we raise gross social income in the coming years, increase the standard, then we may also be able to step up to a standard that we have today under law and simply cannot cover public finances anymore. Given that I started thinking that we are talking about remote events, events where there is no need to talk about coalition, opposition, we will support this final account in the Slovenian People's Party. We hope that we will focus as soon as possible on taking measures such as we will take tomorrow, as we will have to take in Slovenia, so that future accounts will be more balanced than they are now. However, I warn and in some way appeal to all those who are here in this house, that we are simply aware of this even when responsible decisions have to be taken that have long-term consequences in such numbers. It is only a warning of a large deficit, of a large debt, when it is necessary to cut down on changes in legislation that people do not like, which on the other hand also require certain waivers, but it is easier to take a step on the populist side and simply talk about rights. I think that at a time when both Slovenia and Europe will need to speak primarily about the duties of an individual and also about the rights and duties to be aligned with the public financial figures. The 2009 accounts show that in 2009 we were simply unable to reconcile this in Slovenia. I hope we can do this in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to the Minister with his fellow workers, as well as to the Minister of Agriculture! I would like to read the position of our parliamentary group on the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. In adopting this proposal, we have encountered a complex situation. The Commission of the National Assembly for the Control of Public Finance assessed that the 2009 Draft Final Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia was not suitable for admission. This is how she instructed the Minister of Finance to correct the decision. Although the subsequent correction of the final account allows for a recently revised Public Finance Act, it is still not available for the preliminary report. That's why we're in a situation where we don't know how to act. The Court of Auditors delivered a negative opinion to the final account of the proposed budget last autumn. Therefore, the Government has drawn up amendments to the Public Finance Act which empower the National Assembly to order the Government to draw up a new proposal in the event of the closure of the accounts and to set out the corrections to be taken into account. The fact is that we have not yet been able to correct the final budget account. It is also assessed that the provision of that law cannot be regarded as retroactive, so in the DeSUS Group, we ask ourselves how to proceed. The negative assessment of the Court of Auditors is, according to the Ministry of Finance, due to different interpretations, the recording of business events. While the Government has recorded close to 2 billion purchases of state bonds from the treasury bills it has deposited in business banks for three years as deposits, it is the Court’s view that they should be recorded as loans. At the time of presenting the audit report, the Court of Auditors, as the main reason for the negative assessment, highlighted the disguised rehabilitation of the banking system. Since in the DeSUS Group we believe that the 2009 accounts cannot be changed, we will also support the proposal before us. This is the same thing we did a few years ago when one of the budgets was not adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished Minister with the teams! Slovenia was also strongly marked by the financial and economic crisis in 2009, which was also a decisive reason for the adoption of two anti-crisis rebalancings to the 2009 budget. At least that's what the Prime Minister of the Government called them. We adopted the first rebalancing in the National Assembly at the end of March 2009, the second rebalancing in July 2009. The first rebalancing increased funds mainly to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Higher Education and Science and Technology and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The end of growth or decline in economic growth in 2009 resulted in an increase in the unemployment rate, which the Government wanted to invest by subsidising job cuts. The second balance of the budget was adopted in the National Assembly mainly due to the loss of projected budget revenues, savings on material costs, a reduction in the volume of investments and other macroeconomic aggregates. In 2009, we witnessed a significant reduction in public financial revenues and, on the other hand, an increase in public spending on social benefits and economic incentives. In the audit report, the Court of Auditors delivered a negative opinion on the 2009 draft final budget account, both as regards the statements and the correctness of enforcement. The Court of Auditors gave a negative opinion on the proposal for the general part of the final account, since the balance of revenue and expenditure between the recent revenues did not show the dividends paid by Telekom Slovenije, the funds for investing in the telecommunications network and for compensation to victims of war and post-war violence were misrepresented. The Court of Auditors has for several years drawn attention to the irregularities of the Government and government budgetary users in the award of public contracts. In particular, contracting entities with negative references should be highlighted here. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors also issued a negative opinion on the statements exposed to EUR 2 billion for the purpose of a covert resolution of the banking system with long-term deposits to commercial banks. In the Court of Auditors’ view, these funds should be recorded in the same way as loans, since the State budget was entrusted to this end with the issue of bonds. In spite of the denial by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that they have acted in violation of the legislation in force in those acts, we cannot escape the impression that the State has resolved the inappropriate decisions of the banks in the National Party's Group. We are concerned that these are the funds that will be paid in the final phase for the banking sector by taxpayers, as has been the case in the past. The Court of Auditors notes, as a rule, for each financial year, that the Government and the government budgetary users are acting in non-compliance with the rules on employment, salaries and other personal benefits, the same for 2009. The Court of Auditors also found, inter alia, that the Government and the government budgetary users have settled their obligations within longer periods than are prescribed by law. This is also the reason why we can no longer believe in the sincerity of government intentions in adopting government legislative proposals to address the issue of payment non-discipline that we will be considering at this meeting. Regardless of unforeseen times, the 2009 budget planners managed to plan their total revenue fairly properly. A significant difference was made with regard to the realisation of capital revenues, which are lower by 11 million and 44% than planned. Poor realisation has also fallen by only 73% or less in terms of European funds. It is interesting that there are no such derogations in the implementation of the budget on the expenditure side of the budget. We will not support the adoption of the 2009 final budget account in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group in the light of the above.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u124	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the 2009 proposal for a final account. It is simply an action reflecting the actual situation in 2009 in the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia and it is also a rather broad debate when the closing account is being considered, including three meetings or one sitting and two continuations by the Commission for the control of the budget and other public finances, where, in fact, it was more trying to prove that it was an identical situation than in 2007 and that the Government acted irresponsiblely and similarly. Here it must be found that, despite the Court of Auditors’ opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service, certain things need to be changed, but they have prevailed and it seems absolutely right for the Government to listen and Parliament to also comments, suggestions which go in the direction of improving the system, a system that is transparent, transparent, ensuring that public finances are transparent in the way that they are needed. It is essential that progress has been made, that we are practically unable to fix things for 2009 and that it would be meaningless, but it is a good way forward. Although the final account is more or less technical, where it should be checked how the individual items are harmonised, how things are written, how certain obligations and similar things are treated, however, it is also a matter of making sure that a few words are used here. If it is clear to everyone and at the time we live, it is also expected that the budget deficit will increase, however, within the limits of manageability. On the other hand, most importantly, in these years, the social state has endured all transfers, including transfers to the largest pension box, covering all needs and all that legislation has brought, certain rights, certain obligations of the State that must fulfil. I agree with those who say that, in some areas, expectations will have to be adjusted after certain rights are granted, but this needs to be done selectively, so that individual groups do not suffer too much. And if any foreign assessment, of course the opposition – I am talking about the biggest opposition party not to be mistaken, I was pleasantly surprised at the position of the Slovenian People's Party, which I think is very rational at this time we are living in – so if there is no positive assessment from abroad, then it is certainly when experts and those accompanying the situation in Slovenia say that the only right policy was to refrain from social conditions in all segments from unemployed to pensioners, to schoolers and, of course, also public servants and so on. Some problems that appear to be insurmountable are solved by measures during this time they arrive at the National Assembly. I believe that some of the things that are encouraging the Slovenian public, when it comes primarily to the issue of banks, to the question of the para-national institutions and the like, that we will be able to ensure such a situation, together with the budget in all areas, that the situation will be transparent, transparent and economic and that we can, on the basis of what we have already adopted in the National Assembly as a legislative amendment, say that the future accounts are also in line with the expectations of the Court of Auditors and, of course, all those dealing with these issues. We'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a decision. The word is by Franz Bogovich. He's already spent time. Miran Györek? He won't discuss it. Lois Posedel? He won't discuss it. Guido Kres? Took time. Bogdan Barovich? He won't discuss it. Franci Kek? He won't. Janez Fish? It's time-consuming. The victory of the Elinčič Noble? He won't. Vito Rouge? He won't. Jakob the Presbyterian? No, no, no. Anton Urh? No, no, no. Sylven Little Man? No, no, no. Franz Puksich? Took time. Aloys Potočnik? No, no, no. Tadej Slapnik? No, no, no. Jojo Tanko? No, no, no. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, time spent. Mag. Andrej Vizjak? No, no, no. Government as a proponent? Does the Minister want a word? Minister Dr. Franz Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I owe you some short information. According to the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance found that deposits in banks do not constitute loans because they are the payment of the money of the payer for the benefit of the other person or the payee they manage under the money deposit contract. The single treasury account is for the purpose of processing these funds, according to which the net transfer into the budget of the funds has been deposited in the form of three-year deposits to the business banks. In view of the fact that the loan agreement does not exist, even business events could not be recorded in the manner proposed by the Court of Auditors. During the period of a complete credit crunch at global level, a treasurer, according to the Slovenian state, placed these funds in banks according to their share in lending activities in Slovenia, both to foreign banks abroad and domestically owned. We didn't do any discrimination. They came forward, as we all know — this is where our head of the treasury sits — and they have all received adequate funds. In this way, we compensated for the outflow of 3.2 billion deposits from these banks that were previously short-term, then they were West and we had to repay the banks in order not to reduce the credit activity – not to the collapse of banks, but to reduce the credit activity – and the depression in the economy, we carried out this measure, which was a net inflow for taxpayers. So, of course, since this money is still tied, the net debt in the country is actually much smaller or about 2 billion less than the gross debt. In this view, the Government prepared a response report within 90 days in which it tried to demonstrate corrective measures to the greatest extent possible and provided appropriate evidence of the remedial measures taken to remedy the irregularities identified in the 2009 final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time, we were not allowed to fix it again, and then we started preparing the law to do it. The response report was prepared on the basis of contributions from individual ministries last autumn. It also covered measures taken by individual ministries at the stage of the preparation of the response report, as well as measures to address the irregularities identified in the future. The amendment of the Public Finance Act at the end of 2010, which was based on lessons learned from corrective measures, allowed the Government, in accordance with the requirements of the Court of Auditors and, of course, of this High Council, to correct the proposal for a final account on the basis of a proposal from the auditor. The auditor's amendment proposal should be based on the applicable rules and include the legal basis and the indication of the original accounting documents which enable the resolution of those irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the proposal for a final account. However, in 2011, despite the amendment of the Law on Public Finances to the 2009 Final Account proposals, it will not be possible to implement the interpretation of the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly in such a way that it is only a partial constitutional part of the implementation of the final accounts, which cannot be rectified as an independent account, so it is necessary to implement the amendments in the year following that year, that is to say in 2011 we will be able to implement the 2010 revisions. The amendment to the Public Finance Act also laid down the appropriate legal basis for the recording of long-term deposits. In accordance with the amendment of the Public Finance Act, the management of free funds and money management transactions shall be recorded in the balance sheet only, irrespective of the maturity. This arrangement makes sense because, according to its content, deposits do not constitute expenditure, but only an investment in a legal person – a bank whose primary purpose is to elevate funds under pre-known conditions. Taking into account the economic crisis that has affected the preparation and implementation of the State budget, the 2009 deficit results in EUR 110 million lower than planned and would amount to 4.95 % of gross domestic product. The result is also a positive net position of the state budget due to large deposits in deposits of EUR 156 million, which has happened for the first time since 2006 and is also the farthest since the entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening time for an application. Please, whoever wants to sign up. Two reported, everyone has five minutes to discuss. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u128	I would just like to say when, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have explained the position on the point we are now talking about. I did not talk about the crisis, the recession, the reason for the Court's negative opinion. I said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had major difficulties in implementing the 2009 budget, precisely because of the crisis at the end of 2008 and because, at the time before that, the previous government had failed to implement structural reforms, it did not promote the competitiveness or competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, so it was interesting that the share of high-tech products in exports had increased significantly during 2009 and 2010, because those companies that had a labour-intensive and low-tech production had actually started to fall radically in exports, while high-tech activities had succeeded and therefore the share within the export sector had grown. Therefore, if the previous government, as well as governments, were to do much more to promote the development of high-tech activities, industry and other service activities, if the structural changes currently being made by this government were to be prepared and already implemented, the budgetary deficit and the difficulties in implementing the 2009 budget would certainly be much smaller. Of course, no one can say that the crisis has led to a negative opinion or conduct in the implementation of the 2009 budget, so that we get a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. Those who have thus understood my implementation of the position of the Group have, either because of poor listening or purpose, retorted what the coalition is doing or the largest party within it, used and expressed again its standard method of communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought I would be shorter, but in view of this last said in the debate, allow me first not to repeat some of the facts of the legacy of the former government inherited by this government, I will not talk about low unemployment, high economic growth, a balanced budget in 2007 and so on. I will highlight what has been most exposed to this, whether it has not been done enough or that it has been done too little, in fact, it was obvious that nothing has been done to raise the technological development of the Slovenian economy. I would remind all of you and all of you here in the Chamber, which is very few of you, as well as the Slovenian public that the previous government has been negotiating the financial perspective that we are still enjoying, namely the financial perspective 2007-2013, and that all the operational programmes and sub-programmes of this financial perspective have been identified within this framework and that it has been a substantially larger share of the Slovenian economy and has been reserved through operational programmes than before, precisely because of the awareness that this is an important challenge to economic, not only economic, whole government policy. This government, the current government, is implementing this policy through the distribution of these funds. Mr Golobič has a very large budget, as well as the Ministry of the Economy, due to well-negotiated operational programmes and allocation of funds at the time, during the mandates of the previous government. I would like so much only to see how much someone has committed and consciously upgraded technological development in this country and how much attention they have devoted to it. These are facts you can read. And if the current government would like to step up this further, it could launch, at the time of the change in operational programmes, notify them to Brussels and also implement them. As far as I know, much has not been done because the existing allocation has been satisfactory, good and not least, it also allows the current government to support many of the projects of this so-called development and technology platform. So first of all, it's about this. Competitiveness indices also speak out, and it is not likely that the measures of the former government are responsible for the loss of competitiveness in 2010 for 20 cities. In fact, I wanted to intervene in the Minister's closing statement that we are constantly at the Commission for the supervision of public finances and that there is also one major problem, namely the problem of non-recognition of the authority of the Court of Auditors or the Supreme State Auditor, which is recorded and enshrined in the Constitution as the highest audit authority. That's the problem. The Minister again allowed himself to have a problem with whether the Court of Auditors had duly recorded or that it had not adequately assessed that deposits in business banks had to be disclosed between the expenditure in the financial assets and investments account. This was found by the Court of Auditors and is a key issue. The minister says they later found out it wasn't like that. You know, this controversy is sometimes a little tedious because the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the Court of Auditors aren't on the same level. Because if we were on the same level, then we don't need the Court of Auditors. We need him! If the auditor’s views are not taken into account, the auditor shall not take it into account. And it seems to me that this is why we have also adopted and amended the Public Finance Act, so that the National Assembly, together with the Court of Auditors, can order the Government to correct the final bill. Only that he is once again arbitrating, who is right and wrong, and that is why I think we will do a great deal, distinguished minister, if we are aware of the various hierarchyes of the Government as the auditor and the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow, 4 March, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Agenda item — Discussion on the response of the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food of the Magi. The active Židana and the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Dr. Rocco Lights on the business question of Lózet's possession in connection with the connection of agricultural land. At its 24th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejan Židan and Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic submitted to Lojzet Posedel's question about the construction of agricultural land. I give the floor to Mr Lojzet Posedel for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Environment and Space. Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to fellow Members, both ministers! I am sure that the small number present in the Chamber is only a consequence of the fact that there is no vote in the National Assembly today and that this small number does not show the relationship of Members and Members to Slovenian agricultural land. At the moment of discussion and when we requested this debate, we are witnessing every day alarming data on what is happening with Slovenian agricultural land, how the areas that are intended for agricultural activities are being drastically reduced. There are different estimates, but everything moves around 16 to 20% of the decrease in these areas in the last year, that Slovenia is practically on the tail in the European Community after the surface of the working land per capita, that we have only 880 square metres of this processing area and that the average in the European Union is over 2 000 500 square metres per capita. And at a time when we are witnessing a huge increase in the prices of agricultural crops on the world market, when there are already shortages of individual crops, Slovenia is certainly not being treated rationally, economically. If we look at the data. In 1995, 150 hectares of agricultural land were converted into building plots, in 2003 — a thousand and 400 hectares, and today there are needs announced by the municipalities in their spatial plans, which are 14,000 hectares, of which 9,000 hectares are the best agricultural land. Since the level of self-sustainment of Slovenia is also very low, in any event an intervention into the area requiring large agricultural areas should be examined in particular to determine whether this is really necessary and whether the choice is the best option. It is difficult to reach these discussions in the National Assembly, so I would like to thank those 31 Members and Members who have decided at the previous meeting to hold this debate today, to hear from both ministers the reasons why the two ministers in one government have been so different in cases where they have also been thoroughly exposed in the matter of the Parliament and relate to the municipality of Braslovče and to the foundation of very quality agricultural land for business and housing, by adopting such a spatial plan of the municipality of Braslovč, when the Ministry of Agriculture has given a negative opinion and the Ministry of the Environment is positive. And now we have the matter that the document is valid. The Ministry of Agriculture opposes, the administrative unit joyfully issues building permits. But what, according to the basic opinion of this municipal act, no one knows what will happen to compensation or what will happen to those involved. One thing for sure is that the agricultural land has been destroyed. And another case, which also relates to the municipality of Braslovče. To a large extent, however, the location of the rapid road route from Šentrupert to Velenje – south. This is the route chosen in 2007 and endorsed by a decision of the Government in 2008, September, to begin with the drafting of the State Spatial Plan and that various studies and reviews have shown that this route is probably not the best, is not the best. In particular, the citizens' initiatives of Braslovča, represented and united by quality, professional individuals who also cooperate with other institutions and the Government, ministries and the public, draw attention to the inappropriate evaluation of the route and also require this revision. So much at the beginning, and so much later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Now they have the right to further explain both ministers. I would like to point out that under our rules of procedure together for a total of 5 minutes, and that they should simply agree on the allocation. However, in order not to be afraid that it is not possible to explain later, the two ministers have time to clarify their positions later, one hour, and they may contact each other as soon as the members of the groups have communicated their views. Mag. Dejan Židan or Dr. Roko Žarnic? Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u134	Dear Members and Members! You probably understand that one of the important tasks of the minister responsible for nutrition in Slovenia is to protect Slovenian agricultural land. That's how we act in the Braslovč case, if I make it easy. You have already been informed that the Ministry has not given its consent because it has not been submitted to replace land on this route. In addition, we have not received an analysis of alternative routes, and some other matters are not as we have suggested to be regulated. After the last reply to the question, it is important that new matters have taken place. The first is that I have met with a civil initiative that has presented to me that the numbers that come to us from the competent ministry are different than they have. That there's a four-fold difference between them. It was calculated by an expert to lose some less than 80 hectares of agricultural land by this route, according to the Ministry of the Environment and Space. Today we have received third data from the Ministry of Transport to lose 58 hectares. We already have three numbers. You understand that it is our legitimate request to make a confrontation of this data. It is very important for us that the Ministry of Environment and Space has agreed that there will be a meeting where the representatives of the ILO, the Ministry of Transport, Darsa, the Ministry of Agriculture and Civil Initiatives of Braslovce will be present. And now, at this point, the deadline is agreed whether it will be next week or then another week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dr Roko Žarnic, Minister of Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Members! I just came in with the data on the table. One thing needs to be clarified here and explained because obviously we did not say it properly or were able to say it or were aware of the need to say it. In fact, when you plan a route first when you produce variants, variant studies, draw lines of average width of the road, and for the study of variants you get approximate land use sizes comparable to each other because it is arranged in the same way. When one option is chosen, then this variant is accurately calculated with all connections, details and this quantity is larger. What can we do? I have the information here for Arya you and the direction of Braslovča. And according to the ideal variant, about 35 hectares of land are engaged for Braslovče, of which 12,5 are forested, the best land 18.7 and less quality agricultural land 3,72, says approximately 35. For Arjo the same account is this number 26 or 34 % less. When the chosen variant is thoroughly studied, and this is what we have for this Brazilian, but not Arjo's, this amount is 77 hectares, of which 49 are the best, 8.4 less quality land and 19.45 forests. If we went for this option to calculate in detail for Arjo Vasa, but this was not done because this variant was not processed, we could say that one third would be less of this, there would be about 50 hectares, 45 also for Arja Vasa's direction, so if I went out of the relationship only, but I would show the numbers exactly. So much for an explanation of the numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I congratulate the ministers on the excellent timing and great efficiency. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In discussing the question raised by the Member States to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to the Minister for the Environment and Space, we would like to stress that the third development axis, which was also the reason for asking this issue, is extremely important for the development of the region of Korea and of the Savini region. In fact, the region of Koroška has a third development axis of much greater capacity and a reliable road connection with the motorway, and thus a link in the direction of Savinja and Posavska region and the Central Slovenian region, or further to neighbouring Croatia, and an appropriate link between the future economic centre and the national and international road network. Even for the Savinj region itself, it means a more powerful link between Velenja and the motorway or the fifth transport corridor, by maintaining the existing road link from Velenja to the motorway, which is also necessary in view of the projected long-term growth rate of traffic, particularly due to the need for the existing and future economic development of the area. The development axis does not only mean the construction of the road, due to traffic management, but also represents a great potential for the further economic and social development of the area. We also discussed these facts in the National Assembly on the Transport Committee and on the Committee on Environment and Space. To this end, we organised a joint meeting, which took place on 13 January 2010, in this mandate. And by summarizing some of the important points or conclusions that we have adopted on these committees. The Transport Committee and the Committee on the Environment and Space propose to the Government to place space on the ground to give priority to the placement in the area of 3, 3A and 4 development axes. In this case, when we talk about the third development axis, the emphasis of these two committees was, of course, to place a third development axis in the area of priority. In view of the need to build development axes and/or roads, the Committees called on the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport to carry out procedures for the preparation and adoption of State spatial plans for individual road transport links on the development axes within such time limits, so that the Republic of Slovenia can draw on the European Commission’s approved funding for the European Union’s funds in accordance with the operational plan for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the 2007-2013 period. So this is an extremely important time dynamic that we can also include European funds in these projects. As investments are concerned, it is therefore also a matter of re-energizing economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. Both committees, of course, adopted this decision precisely because these deadlines are trying to be reached to the greatest extent possible. One of these conclusions, which discusses the very importance of development axes, is that, in providing replacement agricultural land, which is conditioned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for the loss of these land due to State importance interventions, it weighs and also takes into account the social acceptability and developmental effects on the economic and social development of the areas with road transport links, in this case also in the construction of the third development axis. With regard to the issue raised in the National Assembly, it is clear that the question is somehow raised that it is an incomprehensible decision of the Government to decide, in order to take care of the best agricultural land, to start the activity to build the Koper-Sentilj motorway, from Šentrupert to Velenje. This route, they say, is in spite of the great opposition of the civil initiative and also of the profession located in the middle of the Savinja Valley, by the village of Braslovč, and will thus destroy the vast majority of the best agricultural land of the first category, on which the permanent plantations of hops are built and on which the irrigation system Trnava-Brije is also built. In these procedures that have been carried out during this period and are, I can say. Following the conclusions of the Committee on the Environment and Space and the Committee on Transport, it became clear that this connection is the most economically effective. And if we want to enable the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Transport and, finally, the Ministry of Agriculture to meet all their expectations within the deadlines set for the drawdown of funds from 2007 to 2013, it is necessary to really simplify these options and not to seek out new and new options. It is found that the existing road from Velenja to the motorway is, of course, a necessary road, both because of the existing and future developments of the economy in the region. And it would be unwise today to interrupt the decision of the Government, which has come to the realization that it can place in the space of the route from Šentrupert to Velenje and also to the highway itself. Of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that protecting the best agricultural land is also one of the priorities of this government. Therefore, these procedures have also optimised the course of this route, and this optimization means that this national interest in protecting the best agricultural land is also largely taken into account. So that all the activities brought to this point must be upgraded in the sense that all the dilemmas, the extent to which the loss of agricultural land is affected or the extent to which the loss of agricultural land is concerned must be really eliminated. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to say, of course, at the same level of preparation of documentation for all variants, what kind of intervention on agricultural land is involved. From these data we have received in preparation for today's meeting, we can talk about how the optimized variant has moved away from agricultural land and that agreement can be reached for accommodation also with the Ministry of Agriculture. However, if the issue of the surfaces itself needs to be cleared, in our view it is also possible to request additional expertise to address all the dilemmas, both within the civil initiative and within the profession working on this project. However, I would like to point out that in the Group of Social Democrats, we really want this part to be placed in a space as soon as possible so that we can start to draw on the European funds that we already have approved for this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u140	Dear Vice President, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question of the honourable colleague Alojz Posedel raises an interesting debate or interesting question. I get sick of hearing both ministers, asking if they are sitting in the same government when they answer such a problem so differently. I am not surprised by the stagnation in all areas of placement in the premises of all important facilities in this country, as well as the delay in the adoption of municipal spatial plans, where we have been stressing for more than two years, all the time of this government, as well as in the previous one, we have pointed out the problem that all local communities and all the land managers, especially the agriculture ministry, have had with their failure to respond and even with rather outdated data. Of course, we are not against what the new Agricultural Lands Act provides for, it is said that the best working land is protected, in order to increase the production and production of domestic food, in order to preserve rural and rural life and so on. These are, of course, objectives that we support. However, concrete steps have been too slow in the last period and have mainly caused too much obstacles and too much damage in the economic sense. Those who recall the discussions on the Committee on the Environment and Space, practically since the beginning of the mandate, when we have pointed out in these debates the difficulties of putting individual routes into space, will recall that at that time there was also a promise that a new law would be drawn up that would be easier to place line objects in space. However, apart from the first step, we have not done anything yet. This law should provide for the procedural avoidance of such problems as has arisen in this case. No country, at least neighbouring countries, knows such complicated procedures and such difficult decisions as to place certain corridors that are important for the development of a wider area in space. Above all, they do not know the procedures which in some way reinstate the decisions already taken. It was a wish that with the new line-inclusion law we somehow avoided, but as I said, there was nothing in practice. This stiffness of reception, which is carried out through administrative procedures, has effectively hampered and caused difficulties in the last period in drawing on cohesion funds, not only for large state projects, but also for projects held by local communities in all areas. And I don't know when the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture will sober up and find that they are a cause or a source of obstacles to these procedures. The talk is that, to protect the farmland, I am stroking, but there is no strategy on how to recover the land that has grown in the past, and to use it in some useful way in terms of compensation for certain lands, which are essential for the development of an area. When we get to the agricultural land that rivers and watercourses carry, neither is anyone responsible for this nor for the smaller area of coastal areas. On the contrary, whenever a local community or a third party wishes to intervene in these areas and protect the coasts, this is not possible until a decision has been taken by the Ministry of Environment and Space or their benevolents. There are also specific cases, including those brought in these proceedings. By speaking flatly about the need to protect the farmland without finding a suitable solution in a particular case, it is not good, and this can cause major obstacles in the second segment. We know that individual corridors such as development axes are important for development and that the priority has been to place them in space, but unfortunately we have not come very far in this area. And such cases that arise through a similar problem, as in this case, when, in spite of some way, we are already taking decisions on the implementation of the corridor, we are reopening all questions and causing a very big problem to investors, including those in charge of drawing on European funds, cohesion and the like. Finally, we are also revolving about who is responsible for individual procedures at the Ministry. I want better solutions to be made to these issues, but above all, to start acting as ministries of one government and to make decisions that are in some way in favour of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, again. In the Group of Members, real concern for agricultural land is one of the priorities. The introduction had already explained why this concern, or the procedures that have taken and led to these major changes, and the reduction in the area of agricultural land intended for food processing. It should be noted that something clearly does not apply here, either at the level of legislation or implementation itself. Therefore, at the outset, it is also necessary to express all praise to Minister Židan for the efforts he has made in his work to show that, by warning and practically at each of his performances, we hear these alarming data, as well as convincing how to encourage our own food production, how agricultural land must be protected. In this direction it is in favour and is also in favour of commending the new proposal of the Agricultural Lands Act, which in its own right, brings something good and, on the other hand, has weaknesses. I am convinced that they need to be changed, and the essence of this big problem that we see is, above all, the transport of agricultural land. We know that the very good purpose through the Agricultural Land Fund to regulate these matters has not been realized as it was set up. We know that, in some cases, the Agricultural Land Fund has turned into a merchant or a broker with building plots transferred from the municipalities to the Agricultural Land Fund and that these agricultural land transport security functions have not been carried out. Therefore, a change of destination is also envisaged to alert the Minister on this new agricultural land law. This, in its own right, can protect, but on the other hand, it can also encourage congregations that can detect a new source through this and will actually encourage the congregations to make as many changes as possible in destination as possible and thus increase the revenue generated by this compensation. By actively participating in the adoption and preparation of this agricultural land law. In our parliamentary group, concern for development is one of the priorities and we are aware that roads, infrastructure at development axes, do not only mean acquisitions on infrastructure, but rather that they are primarily a development component. Therefore, we are also convinced that, in this option we are talking about, this development aspect has not been taken into account as it should be. Finally, the route chosen does not follow or is not subject to the highest basic spatial plan, there is a spatial regulation strategy which has one of the axioms of the connection of important economic centres. In this case we avoided this urgently needed link of the third city in the country, Celje, and the fifth city, Velenje, and we got some connection, Šentrupert-Velje. We are aware of the fact that no infrastructure can be acquired without losing the land too, so it must be made very clear that this debate is not open to oppose the construction of the route. On the contrary. It is open to the extreme rational, professional, and not influenced by different lobbying or other decisions, which is evident in this case. In the debate itself, it is already interesting that the Minister of the Environment has served with numbers for which the civil initiative, for which I reiterate, and it should be stressed that it does not oppose the route, on the contrary, he wishes to see as soon as possible the construction of the road connecting this part of the third development axis, but since 2007, from April of the first study, and then in autumn of the second study, he warns and does not call for the suspension of the procedure, but for the revision of the decision to begin. Because we are therefore the ones involved and, above all, the representatives of the civil initiative, for which I repeat that it is represented by professional, quality-educated people, and that they know what numbers speak and what they are following with their actions, that the numbers on lost hectares of agricultural land were marked just a week ago by the Ministry of the Environment. An article was published in Vecer by a representative for contacts with the public, which is in the context that the Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Court of Auditors were flagged in Braslovce with numbers they do not hold. Today I was delighted to hear that even Minister Roko Žarnic spoke of 77 hectares. But we repeat that in these debates it is not specifically one number or another, but it is a way that is obviously bad in Slovenia right now. This is what has also been pointed out, it is said, that the two ministries, which must take care of the preservation of the Slovenian land together, obviously do not act in a coordinated manner. The reasons are likely to be sought by ministers themselves. However, a very nice sentence with the sad content that officials are doing and the agricultural land is disappearing under asphalt and concrete is an example of how in this municipality Braslovce there has been a loss of a large area of agricultural land. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, at the request of the municipality of Braslovče, to change the destination of agricultural land to a building, responded negatively and requested that they remain in agricultural use. However, the proposal for a spatial plan or then order 2007 was confirmed at the Ministry of the Environment by commenting that land needs to be aligned with the Ministry of Agriculture. Since this has not been done, the act has been published in the Official Journal and is legally valid. At the warning of the Ministry of the Environment in 2009, that new buildings are already emerging in this area of quality first-class agricultural land, there has been a painful path for representatives of the civil initiative to point out how everyone has done everything necessary in all ministries, but today, even after the last elections, the new mayor of Braslovč does not know how to act, given that the spatial plan document is valid. The administrative unit issuing the permit and the Ministry of Agriculture disagrees. In his first reply, the Minister of the Environment announced a constitutional assessment. In his final reply, he also announced that this would happen, but he did not. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really believe that this debate is important and that the question is how many such cases there are in Slovenia. It is very sad and almost incomprehensible that these data, in fact, in recent years, were actually built land, cannot be received at the Ministry of Agriculture or at the Ministry of the Environment, precisely from the point of view that legislation, that the procedures for the adoption of spatial plans are extremely complex and that there is no real picture. We know that the deadline for the construction of municipal spatial plans has already been extended twice and that there are very few municipalities, I think that 15 or 26 who have adopted new municipal spatial plans, while all else is subject to coordination, negotiation and the desire of some to have as many new land as possible, and others, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, to keep as many of these land as possible for primary production. In fact, in the Parliamentary Group, we do not understand that it is possible that in the country there is such misunderstanding and non-observance or failure to take the initiatives of a professional civil initiative, which, by arguments, is also possible, not least through analyses by the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia and other experts, the reviewers, proves that it has been virtually three years since the decision was not correct that the evaluation, which was carried out subsequently, was probably professionally incorrect, that in this way the profession was carried out, that the first study of the OMEGA consultation was signed by 12 experts, of which three doctors, the rest of whom were trained people, experts, and that then the study which overcame this basic study was carried out by the Minister, carried out by an undertaking where two graduate engineers, with a very narrow result of which there were no 114: 112, while the competitions were chosen, the criteria of which changed the economy to the three times, that the Minister, that the Ministry of course, and the three times the Minister of course, and the Minister of course, of course, and the Minister of course, were not acting in favour of the Minister of course, were the Minister of course, were also the Minister of course, with the Minister of course, with the Minister of course, were not with the Minister of course, with the two. We therefore believe that this debate is necessary. Then, in particular, on the case itself; otherwise, taking care of the land and developing an important component, but not in a wasteful, non-consumer way of spending our Slovenian agricultural land, so that interests that have nothing to do with development can also be established, but can also be a pure personal primate of someone, cities above the city, landscapes above the landscape or one area above another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u144	Good evening, Madam Vice President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! An interesting topic is the topic we face at this point. In fact, we can say that in some ways different areas are encountered here. The first, which is a lot to talk about, is the protection of agricultural land for sure. Secondly, it is very important to put in a space that is sensitive in terms of agricultural land a demanding infrastructure facility, such as a third development axis, and in the background of all this you can also feel the need for some prudent search for optimal routes that are routes, as we call them, not just a route of a road, but a developmental axis. This third development axis, which, of course, crosses Slovenia from the south, has a plot on the other side of the border in Celovac, and across Koroška, Savinja, Celje, Zasavsko-Posavska region, Lower Poland, across the White Krajina all the way to the River, where this corridor actually ends. It's about agricultural land. As an agronomist, I am also really glad that, recently, as Slovenia has done much to make Slovenians and Slovenians increasingly aware, we are aware of the need to produce food and self-sustainment, that our consumers are aware of the quality of our Slovenian food, that there is also a greater degree of awareness that we will not be able to produce this food simply if we run out of agricultural land. In the past, in the last 20 years, marked by the rapid development of the Republic of Slovenia, by the construction of a variety of necessary infrastructure, both transport, economic and other, the truth of love in Slovenia has seen the decline in quality, most of the highest quality agricultural land. As has already been said here by fellow Members of Parliament, I welcome the fact that, at the next meeting, there is already a law on agricultural land, where, on the one hand, we will see a stricter policy towards the use of these land, that what is also in the field of agricultural land of the Holy Land is said to be something we should not touch, and what we can, on a conditional basis, touch, what we can and need to apply agricultural land, pay a certain amount of compensation that will not compensate for the functioning of local communities, but must also be a substitute for active agricultural policy measures in the field of active agricultural policy in view of the elimination of cultivated areas, which, in the past, are largely to blame for the fact that there are fewer agricultural land in Slovenia, and, on the other hand, an active agricultural policy in the area of agromiliorations, the real measures of agricultural policy, such as the mergers, cropping and cropping up. I support this principle myself. I also support the principle that as agricultural land grows, this change in destination also increases. I must say that it is in some way very interesting or significant that after almost 10 years we return to the solution that was already in force in Slovenia and that was then the Minister of the Environment and Space, but I think that energy was also there, Mr Kopač quit at a time when highways were largely built in Slovenia and when some areas had just received it, it was a municipal source, these changes of destination, and in some there were even injustices that the motorway was later built, and the substitutes for those local communities were not received. In this case, it is now a change of destination intended exclusively for agricultural operations, and I think that this intention of law is correct, as well as for a more active policy of the Agricultural Land Fund, which must also play a greater role in the field of agricultural land management and transport. In addition, part of the funds in this law are also intended for agricultural land transport. Another important issue is this development axis, which extends to the territory of Slovenia. It is certainly necessary that this transport and other economic infrastructure be built along such corridors, because I am firmly convinced that the biggest contribution to development if you want the Posavina environment from which I come, especially for the municipalities of Krško and Brežica, was the construction of the motorway. I think it's similar to Prekmurje. No law will help Prekmurci as much as it helped to build a highway and reduce this proximity, but above all the greater attractiveness of the environment to stay in it and ultimately create working conditions. In this part, I think we are making quite a few mistakes in Slovenia to place this axis too slowly, to the best of our knowledge, in changing the operational programmes, we have already rejected €60 million from the cohesion area, which was aimed at precisely the third development axis, because it has been established in the Government that this is a bad year ago or a half year ago, that the paper is obviously in such a backlog that it is not possible to place this development axis. In this part, I think we are witnessing a case where I think these studies have to be done, but I think that all of us in this room have had the opportunity to see a lot of studies and if you're a little bit more into some things, if you're able to learn from someone who has some knowledge, you'll unfortunately come to realize that many times there's an interest behind the authors of some kind of study. I don't know the specifics, I'm not even talking about these cases, but I think that one measure of criticism should also look at all these studies and finally really figure out what that optimal option is. In the case of the third development axis, I think it is a real connection and that there are also some major deviations, such as the deviation from the city of Celje. And if I move away from this case, which I say I don't know that much, I will tell on the case of a closer environment, in Zasavje, Posavje, because the road from Celje goes on, this third axis, towards Lašek, towards the Wall Bridge and forward towards the New City. In this case, too, one last option, which has been changed again since the previous one, is quite strange, for it is going on a whole new route. In large part it goes on the route with many tunnels and I have the feeling that someone is on this middle part, it is said from Celje to New Town also wanted a proposal for a route that is practically uninhabitable, which is expensive, with which eventually they disagree with the environment such as Sevnica, which is completely away from this environment, that even this medium part at some point also wants to let go, then in this environment later. I have spoken about this several times myself, and also the Sinowian counterpart, Mr Ocvirk, has given in the area of the third development axis, I think, the smart idea that we must determine the central corridor in particular, and from there it is possible also after the segments of what matters. I am sure that Koroška and the White Krajina are the most exposed here and that they are eligible, as soon as possible, for some smart, good connection, first the road, and then all others. And as I said before, this will be the biggest contribution. I personally estimate that in this case the lack of landscapes in Slovenia or any arrangements that would place such a great deal of interference in the space would lead to some intermediate level between the now very fragmented municipalities, the partial interests of individual municipalities and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Environment and Space. As I have already said, I would have divided this route into three sections, one of the Ljubljana–Maribor motorways, which is called the north, the other between the two motorways, between Savinja and Dolenjska and the third leg from the New Town through the White Landscape to the border. Whoever manages to put the route in this regional environment first would be entitled to these funds first for my understandings. Here, however, this problem often arises that different interests arise, that it is obvious that it is not able to agree on optimal options in the regions, and that many times, with some speculative interests in the background, it also spices up the difficulty of these placements. I think it is right that this debate in the National Assembly is to talk about this, but above all I see that this is one very operational work, which involves several ministries. Here today we have two ministers, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Environment and Space. Surely there is a key Minister for Transport and the Ministry of Economy, as it is also called on to say, in this case, if such complex infrastructure facilities are located, where even from an economic point of view the greatest effects are obtained. On the other hand, I firmly believe that we have learned so much from the placement of the routes so far, that if any euro or even a million, which will certainly be in such a large section, we will give more to avoid the best agricultural land, that it is worth doing and thus preserve what we can no longer change, is the best agricultural land. And through this sensitive area of Savinijska Valley, where there are rich hop fields and also lands that are becoming smaller – one highway we have already placed in this area, another corridor is now being placed – that there is a need to be very careful here. I think that the right path that ministers have taken is for all to sit together and that, on the basis of the clear analyses and effects that professional people are ultimately producing, they also decide on the optimal variant. As I have already said, it is also worth giving some euro more for agricultural land to be protected, and a new loan of money for these measures in the area of improved use of agricultural land, better exploitation, improved processing conditions and even larger crops I see, as I have already said, in the adopted and re-established change in the destination of agricultural land that will come into the procedure under the Agricultural Lands Act. We do not usually conclude on this point because this is a debate on the question of the Member State, so on my part, once again appeal to all those responsible at ministerial levels and also in the regional environment to sit together and, with tenderness and attention to the use of agricultural land, place the optimal route as soon as possible. This is how you will do the most for your environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Both ministers have a nice greeting, as well as coworkers. Colleagues and colleagues! The foundation of agricultural land or the change of destination is one of the biggest problems of Slovenian agriculture, mainly due to the multitude of phenomena. That is why we welcome the debate on this subject in our parliamentary group, as it is our assessment that it is essential for the future of Slovenian agriculture. We only hope that it will not only remain in the debate and empty words, but that we will all really work together to limit ourselves to building mainly on the best agricultural land that is disappearing in our country every day. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the proposal for a new Law on Agricultural Lands is going in the right direction, as it is intended to protect the best working land, to increase the processing and production of domestic food and to keep the countryside alive. Unfortunately, in practice, there are two ministers who should take care of the protection of the best agricultural land. The Ministry of Agriculture thus notes that the best agricultural areas are shrinking rapidly, we are talking about areas of concern and at the same time reminding us that between 2002 and 2007 we lost or built seven hectares of agricultural land per day. On the other hand, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, they find that construction on agricultural land is limited enough to be almost non-permissible or not permitted where there are enough other less exploited areas or degraded areas to which the new settlement is directed. At the same time, the Ministry of Environment and Space recognises that a large part of agricultural land is changing for the purpose of building infrastructure corridors, especially highway links, as planned also in the case of the construction of the A1 motorway from Šentrupert to Velenje, which is also the reason for today's debate. It is true that highways are built on land, but if we look at a concrete case in Pomurje, it is almost impossible to take them anywhere but through the best agricultural land. Somewhere in the Slovenian space, of course, this can be arranged in a different way. At the ILO, it is said that a relatively small proportion of agricultural land is intended for classical construction, i.e. the expansion of settlements, because it has the advantage of renovating before construction. At the same time, they point out that widespread construction is one that in the past is a strong principle of open agricultural space, especially in the immediate hinters of major urban centres. Of course, the agricultural ministry is not as satisfied with its current state as it is with the environment. Following the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act, some municipalities have already approached the preparation of new spatial documents. The data show that 117 municipalities have proposed a change of use to about 13,000 acres [13,000 ha] of all agricultural areas. Of this, about 8 thousand 115 hectares of the best land are proposed to change, i.e. more than half. That is why, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, it is necessary to listen to the purpose of the agricultural ministry, which, through the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, seeks to protect the potential of agricultural land and to increase food security and to enable the sustainable development of our rural area. Amendments to the existing law are intended to help direct construction to areas of non-agricultural land, existing building land, particularly to degraded areas. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture, through the amendment of the law, wants to encourage the owners of unprocessed agricultural land to become more active. In the parliamentary group, we would like to point out that enlargements to agricultural land, especially the best land, should be planned in line with real development needs if such enlargements cannot be avoided. We estimate that, in order to protect the best agricultural land or agricultural land in general, it is essential that the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture finally cooperate and jointly assume responsibility for the protection of our agricultural land, because otherwise we will lose our gold-worthy landscape and prevent the development of Slovenian agriculture, all the possibilities for self-sustainment and the provision of healthy safe food, which in the Slovenian space of late, at the head of the Minister, we still like to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable minister! With regard to the case in question, I should like to point out in the opening that it is a shame that, for such an important, complex area of Slovenia, a universal and problematic issue, this is the construction of agricultural land, or rather the question of the use of rational exploitation and the actual usefulness of such or different types of agricultural land, is addressed and adopted by any principles or specific positions on the single open problem case, this is the planned connection of the Šentrupert-Velje to highway 1. For, as it is said, the construction of the land, not just for roads or railways, is generally an open Slovenian problem. The route here or the route there, in any case, will have to be leased for the loss of certain areas of agricultural or forestry land. So what do you do? The answer is only one. To find the most rational, you will all be affected by the most acceptable option or solution. However, for this purpose it is necessary to produce an appropriate analysis, study and on the basis of the results, only these decisions will be taken by the competent and qualified authorities, certainly in the first place of the agricultural, environmental and transport ministries. And unfortunately, this is where the biggest problems come in. Ministers in this private and in such a way, with all possible personal and political interests burdened by climates, are simply not able to resolve these issues rationally. The issue of agricultural land and forests is becoming an almost insurmountable problem, created mainly by the economic and capital interests, to which our ministers are very willing and beneficially subject, a wide range of totally unacceptable, not often nationally harmful political interests, which seems to be of pure importance at the end, but a lack of attention to the fact that this problem is directly linked to environmental protection, the prudent regulation of the space and, consequently, to the comprehensive welfare of the better life of Slovenia and the Slovenians. Like I said, the universal Slovenian problem. There is a problem in this case with Comrade Posedel. My colleague Majhenič cannot sleep because of the Miklavska Forest, in the Slovenian National Party we cannot fully understand the fact that an independent, sovereign Slovenia, EU member and NATO, and its government allows occupation and also a foundation for the independence of the free in Slovenia of its own agricultural land and forests by the Croatian country. This does not seem to be a very big problem for this government. However, there is a huge problem as soon as possible if a route of a hundred meters to the left or to the right, and above all who will earn fat money, who has purchased further agricultural land for change, who has abused enough politically, has bribed some mayor, minister or competent officials, and then the problem of profit sharing, of course. Examples are in Slovenia as much as you want me not to talk about Murski Sobota, which serves almost as a sample and a textbook for these purposes. And if my colleague Loyza would let me do it, I'd like to take a leap into my Pomurje problem to show a wider Slovenian. Even in my region, which is a typical agricultural land region, there are logically such, previously mentioned interests and the biggest roots. The fact that both ministers responsible for this area, i.e. agricultural and environmental, do not manage matters is clear to every Pomurec. Well, to be honest, agriculture still has a good hold on it, but as everything shows, not for national interests, but rather for the capital interests of its monopolies friends, not least of all its employers. It presents and blurs out together with the Flossules on the prudent sustainable protection of agricultural land, on the regulation of the food chain system, on its vision of providing food supply, on real price policy, on the bright future of the gloomy farmers and so on and so on. A typical example is the exploitation of those few hundred hectares of land for biogas plants. Therefore, for the purposes of exploiting renewable energy sources, also for this type of energy independence and, finally, for the fulfilment of Slovenian commitments to European directives in this area. And what is most important to us Pomurje – at least on these projects we have seen and hoped to improve at least some extent the catastrophic economic, financial, social situation in Pomurje. Then comes Minister Dejan Jidan, as you would call it at the inca, the king on the aces. Now he's going to be slow for a year of his ministry and ask him a few questions and comment on some facts. Why did a thousand 300 cattle farms go out last year? Why did 4 thousand pig farms go out in 2010? Why was 8,000 acres less sown last year? Why is 21,000 acres [600 ha] of farmland growing? Why do thousands of hectares of Slovenian land occupy the Croatian state and so on? Maybe the cause and answer of those things are biogas in Pomure? We all know in Pomour that Mr Židan is a lawyer of the manufacturing industry and Polanič Panvita, which covers both sectors and vertically exploits farmers who prefer to end farming and close farms. It's a sad fact. It is said that the food is irritated by biogas and that corn is being smoked. But we do know that corn has been sown less than before, so this logic cannot hold. How can 1 % of the surface affect price rises by 20% of the final product? On average, farmers in Pomur Panvit sold 120 euros of wheat and bread is sold as if the wheat cost 600 euros. The minister said in the media that all they gave was a signal that the biogas area should be regulated. What a signal it is to force harmful regulation 94/2010 at the Ministry of the Economy, thus giving investors who have been building for 10 months a signal to the European Union that we are an unfair country, on the shoulders of investors and taxpayers, to enable the state to pay the penalty. What kind of signal is that? With this you have satisfied only Panviti and poultry Ptuj and put farmers on their knees as well as all future investors. You're saying it affects your diet. What do people eat? A silage that's for cows? This is used as biomass for biogas. You're talking about how you're going to manage your own supply of biogas by limiting biogas and not making a farmer's production for biogas. You're forcing him to continue to be a servant of Panvita and Perutine. How will you, because we have open trade in the EU, prevent farmers from producing rape for neighbouring Austria, where many farmers are already selling, and for Italy? So will you stop open trade in the European Union and prevent farmers from selling their crops? You'll never be able to do that, ever. Not particularly since you're a secretary for a certain time. So a farmer would rather sell to Austria than domestic biogasers. We will stop building biogas because of you, Mr Židan, and so we will run out of energy, which the whole world is strategically producing in every way possible, as there are huge increases in energy. So it should make sense right now, now we know that a farmer can sell his product to anyone outside of Slovenia, so that we can make sure that we sell in Slovenia and, as a result, produce green energy from biomass rather than sell abroad and are powerless. But since you are building your reputation on the ignorance and deception of farmers, I ask you publicly: "How will you increase your self-sustainment with your public deception and how will you allow a farmer to survive with such an assessment that he will be able to sell his potatoes in Lidla or Hofer for example?" He'll never be able to. These chains will be bought more and more cheaply than our home farmer could ever have. It is a shame that the whole European Union is turning to biogas as the most strategic source of green energy, as it is increasing self-sustainment. You've heard well, self-sustainment increases. It boosts energy and revives agriculture. The greenhouses are full of logs, so I don't keep listing. The purpose, Mr. Minister of the Jews, is clear as day, to those who know things. It is necessary to establish an investigative commission, sooner or later, where this will all be identified and the actual background of such work revealed. And let's also say something about this, in this cave, those involved, or rather, passively acting persons, that's to the environmental minister. What is happening in my region, in particular in the vicinity of Murska Sobota, with regard to the construction of agricultural land, is already a disaster, not to say corruption and customerism. Not to mention the local responsibility of the local community. Not to mention this, I would rather point out the responsibility of the state inspection and control authorities empowered to conduct the environmental and nature inspection procedure and the spatial inspections. Example. A long-standing problem in Murski Sobota, the surrounding area – illegally built agricultural land, unregulated spatial plans, illegal, black building of agricultural land in this area, the perpetrator is a well-known, wealthy entrepreneur who can afford it. Sacrifice — the surrounding population, the surrounding farmers suffering from this kind of work. Petitions, complaints, media coverage of such illegal acts – Mr Minister, environmentalally, here I will give you evidence – do not help. Corruption in local contexts, not only with us in Murska Sobota, who has money – there are no waiting types in doctors, no lost judgments in courts, no building without permits, no demolition of facilities, no inspection sanctions, in short, everything goes as lubricated. Consequences: smell, noise, restlessness, in this particular case, a whirring of a landing or take-off helicopter at all times and on unintended agricultural land. Everything that is a victim — the surrounding population. When we ask about your inspections, there's no one at the district inspection, they're shopping at the grocery store, sitting at the bar. And when you ask one of those people who's already there, some punks, they say, "What can this minister do to me? He doesn't even know why he is." Something else, even the butt minister. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, those are not my words, but so far as you know, the opinion of officials in the field is horrifying. If you don't take care of it yourself, we Members watch it with us, we listen, we move among the people, we listen to complaints, like we're a petition authority, like we're the ones who can solve it. What else can I do here to tell you to do something? This is an unsustainable state, what's going on here. People are disappointed in us, over you, over all of us. It's becoming an apathy. Those few monopolies, rich people laughing, charging money abroad, riding helicopters, yachts, and the population suffering. It's your duty to take care of it and arrange it. In evidence, Mr. Environment Minister, cartographic recordings, papers two years ago in newspapers, well, you weren't a minister at the time, you weren't aware of that, but now I'm going to introduce you here with specific cases of black construction, violations of environmental laws, abuse of the best agricultural land in the vicinity of Murska Sobota. Please act so I don't listen to this all day!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic has the floor to present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Good-bye to both ministers! I have to say, it's probably fun for the minister to be in a position to present himself. One could say that a hand that works and thinks positively certainly does more good for the good of this country than a mouth that constantly criticizes and spits. Indeed interesting presentations of the views on what is wrong in the area of agricultural land in this country. I also agree, friends, friends, friends are the stories that do much damage to Slovenia, and perhaps those who would build aviation museums on the best agricultural land in Pomour instead of corn. These are real troubles, but I'm gonna go on the subject and on what brings us on. Interesting dilemma. I think that Mr Posedel, a fellow Member, has asked the right question about which opinions are being broken, and there will certainly be something good out of this, but certainly more support for the agricultural land law, which is practically already in Parliament. Surely, in the history of mankind, this conflict is established between one side of development and the other, that all billions of us in this world are living off one simple thing called food. It should be considered if we want it to be healthy, agricultural land. I must say that we are thinking in the LDS Group that the rapid development itself will not help us much if we meet him with empty stomachs. That's the key dilemma. Data on agricultural statistics and agricultural land in this country are already being read by sparrows, but from former Minister Pogačnik to current Mr Židan, certainly in this story in the field of alerting concrete behaviours and also in the field of legal changes, it has never been made so much. A large part of Slovenia has been alerted to the information that we have little more than 800 square metres of land on which we can produce food, that we have lost a lot, on the one hand, of course, with excessive construction, and on the other hand also with cultivation. I don't care so much about cursing, because there's a story back there, but it's definitely expensive. The ones that can be restored, the ones that we've built, and there's an irreversible process. The agricultural land, which has been built for some 100 to thousands of years, has been lost forever. And maybe something original. This legislation should also highlight where the best agricultural land to be removed from the land disappears. This matter should also be regulated by law, there is no point in being seized by gardeners for English lawns, which are then well watered with herbicides and fertilisers. These people do not need such the best land, good grass for golf or for the English park can also be made out of a relatively bad land with some euro more, the one we need and remove in emergency road construction sites, highways and whatever else, but it should be supervised, regulated and carefully watched over its use. For 30, 40, perhaps even an inch more humus, would bring some agricultural land, which is not in the best condition used for farming, of course, and help a great deal. This story, of course, was at first seen as a conflict between the two ministries, between the two actions of the administration. And yet I never saw her as a conflict between the two ministers. For both Mr Žarnic and Mr Židan think in this story as they should, and surely the steps will be the right ones. It is interesting, however, that when a person listens to debates, the same people who talk about agricultural land, of course, about protection, on the other hand, cry out that Slovenia and Slovenia are building the most expensive motorways in the country. It is both difficult to have, of course, if the road is poorly placed in the field, the best field, and the best meadow, then we build it cheap. But if we take roads to the edge of the valley, that there are tunnels, viaducts and more, then we have expensive roads. I think it's worth building a little more expensive roads in the long run and protecting agricultural land. True, but here we will all agree, both in the opposition and in the opposition, that, of course, changes in spatial plans are something in this country, which so far has not been mastered by any government, that procedures take place unreasonablely for a long time, complicated, that practically those in local communities that are taking the initiative that we are, I would say, the last in line. I must say that, despite the fact that the vast majority of the mayors in Slovenia understand the story and do not do any damage to the foundations, we have established institutions in this country, various institutions for the protection of natural, cultural and other heritage, which were designed and created to be in our counseling and assistance. Now it's an institution sitting with a god or even a god. Not to be disturbed or disturbed by the fact that a cultural heritage will destroy the tooth of time, of course, we are not worried so much, but we are not looking for the right solutions. This is also one aspect of this story that does not have a political dimension. But of course, we run into difficult objects – and I am sure that after the mistakes that have taken place in Braslovč, two ministries in part of the story will be responsible for them historically and, of course, the local community, that we will now find the best solution. This is already in view, the road retreats to the edge, to the slopes and the numbers built, for ever lost agricultural land, are now, as the story goes to the end, significantly smaller than it was at the beginning. We are once again running into the relationship of us as a society at all, to civil initiatives. Civil initiatives are necessary, desirable and important corrective measures. You have to listen to them, respect their opinions, but then you have to do it. We build and we work by law. Civil initiative is not something that is above everyone and above all laws. However, he must decide the profession for which he would like to be as independent and impartial as possible and that is what we are missing. I'm not gonna tell the story again. You've already done this to my colleagues before me and I think they were valuable, respect for the valuable debate of all the parliamentary groups. Everyone has added something of their own, let them think. I am confident that we will learn something from this story and that what will be the lesson of this story will be incorporated into the agricultural land law in order to make it as realistic as possible and to find effective measures to make spatial planning even more effective in this country and, above all, to be carried out within a much shorter time frame following simpler procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Food, took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u152	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, co-workers! First of all, I would like to thank you for seeing from most of your speeches that you are in fact supporting Slovenian food policy, which is also based on keeping Slovenian agricultural land, and this is also intended to change the agricultural land law, which is currently in the National Assembly. I would also like to say that I agree with one of the Members who said that it is time to sober up. In fact, it's time to sober up. From 1991 to the end of 2009, we lost 16.5% of Slovenian agricultural land, with few already. So at this point, let me say this information, just 470,000 hectares of agricultural land. At this time, which is particularly important, we have also lost 20,000 hectares of the best agricultural land, so at this point we have only 175 thousand hectares. With the surface that remained available, which is very small, it is understandable that we have come to create priorities that we have not previously had. Of course, when we create priorities, we collide with lobbyists who sometimes speak clearly from the mouth of one of the Members. In fact, if agricultural land is too small – but it is clear that the first task of agricultural land is to provide food for people, the second task is to provide food for animals and the third priority is everything else – it is not true that we have only a responsibility to green energy in Slovenia. The first responsibility we have in Slovenia, and this also comes from European policy, is food security. What does that mean? This means that on the agricultural land we have to produce enough food to prevent people living in this country from being hungry in the event of a crisis. What I would like to say is this: spatial planning. We are aware that spatial planning in Slovenia is too complicated. It is also clear that, at the time that a request for a change of destination for an additional 14,000 hectares of agricultural land or 9,000 hectares of the best agricultural land is made at the agricultural ministry, every role must be addressed by the care of a serious food-producing host. And here's the thing. With the new law currently in your hands, spatial planning is greatly facilitated because at the first stage of planning we clearly state where it is possible and where it is not possible to think about a change of destination. The spatial planning that is now present is as follows. The municipalities coordinate their interests, build their wishes, talk to citizens for three, four or five years, and only in the end do they come to consensus, to the agreement of the individual departments. And then it actually happens that the process becomes difficult to control. However, all I have to say is that, as regards the consensus and opinions issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, which is only one of the ministries in charge of this task, I think you have noticed that this process is going on from month to month faster. Maybe just about the new marriage. The new law also regulates the work with fertile land. This is important. I would like to say that if there is a feeling that the two ministries do not understand each other or do not cooperate, this feeling is wrong. There's something else you need to look at. The ministries have different powers. The Ministry's mission, which I represent, is, of course, to protect Slovenian agricultural land. The Ministry, represented by Dr. Roko Žarnic, is the Ministry, which is a spatial coordinator and must coordinate many interests, not just agricultural ones, but others. Therefore, it is essentially important that the resources cooperate with each other. I must say, we work well with the environment and space. I must say that we have jointly prepared this agricultural land law, which is now under way. It is clear, however, that when we answer when we have to make decisions, you also understand that when the data is such that it does not match, but we ask for a look at why the data does not match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor to prepare Mr Kres if Žerjav, Majhenič, Magajna and Lach are absent. Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and Fellow and Fellow Minister, Fellow Members of the Ministry, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! I hear you'll be assessing the accuracy of the data. I don't mind that it's good for us to know what we're dealing with. I hear you're going to invite a civil initiative. I'd like to give you a list of other civilian initiatives, and I suggest you invite everyone, you'll have an interesting day when you talk about the route of the fast road you'll be putting into space. I suggest you invite everyone and talk to them, and if possible, make a deal. I share my concern with those who are concerned about agricultural land. I agree with the Minister of the Jews on the acquisition of accurate data. At the same time, let me say that I fully trust the designers and those who plan to intervene in this room because I see no reason why we should deceive the public and say something that is not true. It is right that these data are faced and we will come to the right conclusion very quickly. In this matter, the following must be said. When we compare the data, I suggest that we choose at least the same fruit, not by comparing apples and pears in this case, but by taking apples on one side and apples on the other side and comparing what the result will give us. On the one hand, we are talking about preserving agricultural land. I am very close to the proposal of Minister of the Jews that replacement land should be sought. Mr Krivec has talked about this and this is probably the right solution, and this is also foreseen. When you spend your agricultural land somewhere, because you are looking at development more comprehensively not only in agriculture, you are, of course, losing some land that you can re-invent in the second part to agriculture with a certain intervention. And it always will be. If we build roads, tunnels, viaducts, overpasses, undercarriages, whatever we do, roads will be expensive, there's no other option. If we build on agricultural land, they will be cheaper, but of course they will take some land that will have to be replaced. But since this is a specific case, because it is a matter of putting a fast road route on the route of the motorway cross of the Austrian-Slovenian border, there is, of course, some information about this to be said. This is not a new story, the story is slowly getting a beard, the conclusions on this route have been adopted by the previous government. Just before the 2008 elections, some of the complications with this route were said, and very quickly ministers, including the Minister of Agriculture, said that this was not the case, but that the placement in the space was continuing. It's a step forward. Today we are very close to unfolding this route, the state spatial plan, but we are always looking for some new variants and we are always talking about finding something else, some variant that would be more suitable for each other, for others a little less, and we are forgetting the fact that we are moving this project away. It's a question of how many years, if we do it again. I'm sure this isn't the right way. If I also comment on this statement in the parliamentary question, if it is heard, when it is also thought in the Shaleska Valley and it is wondered whether it is a development axis from Celje to Celovac together with Velenje, or whether it is a development pocket if there is no road on this route, of course it is attracted to hair. We're talking about the development axis, about everything that belongs to development. The fast road is just the backbone of the third development axis and, of course, it is important where this road is located because the economy will develop along this road. Mr Žarnic had the opportunity to listen to the economy as well as to civil initiative, both of them had the opportunity to tell Velenje what was important. If I sum up the economy – they urgently need transport infrastructure, otherwise we will be able to behave in two ways and say that it is wrong for us to say the giant of white technology, the exporter, Gorenje moves production somewhere else, but at the same time we do not allow the transport infrastructure that will enable it to stay in this space. How much this claim can now hold that this is related only to infrastructure or something else is, of course, a question, but it can be a reason, and this reason must in fact be prevented. And the statement of a civil initiative at this same meeting, which says, "You know, the Velenje-Arja connection is real to you, because traffic is growing most on this route." Yeah, where to grow, like on this road, which is the only one that allows freight and other things. So for the hair attracted argument that can't handle serious judgment. And there's something else about this version. The variant endorsed by the previous government by the decision was a variant of first category agricultural land placement. Of course, there was a civil initiative, and official policy from that end opposed the placement of this road in the way it was placed. There's been an optimisation, there's a road to the ripples. And when it comes to the abrasions, of course, it runs into climbs and a variety of similar obstacles that need to be overcome. This, of course, raises the price of this investment. And when they finally look at the price, they say, "Sorry, that's too expensive. Go somewhere else." So, from agricultural land on the edge, the price rises – a very clear game – and when you see the price, you say, "No, that's too expensive, go somewhere else!" And that's how you move the next 10, 20 years somewhere else, and development is lagging behind and actually standing. But this is not about competitiveness, let's say what some people have read over and over again, Celje and Velenje. Celje is the third centre in Slovenia and no one will take this primate away from him in the future. Probably not because it's going to move on. Velenje is the fifth economic centre by economic power and probably deserves one particular attention, excuse me. All those who speak of this route also come from this area, live where the route takes place, oppose the route, and work in Velenj or the Valley of Shale. Of course, such a performance is not good and does not lead to a good path. This is therefore a proportionate development, a more coherent regional development and therefore we need this road link. And let me tell you about Koroška. For Koroška, it doesn't really matter where it joins a fast road or a highway. It is especially important for them to reach the highway cross. But they agree with us that this is at the Šentrupert connection, because once you're on the highway, it doesn't matter which way you're going, towards Maribor or towards Ljubljana anymore. But in Koroška, it's national importance. I don't know if we are aware of what cut-off Koroška means from central Slovenia. It means gravity in Austria. They have better road connections. They're getting better. And then we'll be wondering why we lost a piece of Koroška's economic and otherwise. That's why it's so important. We are now placing and having a public debate on the fast road Velenje – South–Slovenia Gradec. It's nice, we'll hear comments and we'll put it forward, but this road doesn't contact this part of the road that would go towards Arja village, because then it's misplaced in space. This part of Slovenj Gradec–Velenje is wrongly placed in the space if we agree to change the variant. And you need to put the whole thing in a new place. The second story is the early Savina Valley, which we are moving away from the highway cross. If I don't talk about Squishing, he'll probably say something to Men about Squishing. Not to mention a traffic jam. On this route, which is now scheduled, a quick road will or will fall on the yard of Gorenje. In that case Arja village, which goes east of Velenje, is left without connection, the connection has to be made, the bypass, the southern bypass, I don't know what we're going to do, I can't even imagine what this story will look like. From Gorenje or Gorenje every 10 seconds, he brings a truck, a tow truck. When we talk about this road to Arja village, we must say that this fast road then paves the existing road. I can't imagine building this fast road on an existing road, congestion, a traffic heart attack, an economic heart attack. I can't imagine that story. Mr Weber took the point very well on behalf of the Group of Members. This is a development axis and it is a matter of maintaining the existing road link, because otherwise it will not be possible to function. It is very important where this route will be and when we will actually put it in space, despite the effort, the effort actually pushes everything too far. We will have to consider one and the other solutions to what development is for us, and we will have to find an answer to that. And that is why the debates we have today, including mine, are unproductive, because there is no decision at the end of the day and no decision at all. We are discussing this because with the response of ministers, someone was dissatisfied. More importantly, it would be important to discuss the project in concrete terms, have a specific agenda item and finally take decisions in this National Assembly. Well, we're gonna get to that gradually, but at this point, of course, this isn't it. I hope it's not really a dispute between the ministries, even less between the ministers, because I don't think there's any need for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Richter has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good evening to the ministers and, of course, to the coworkers! I don't know where to start, but it was my pleasure to last visit to Celje to visit the minister of the Jews who had stopped on the road before arriving in Celje and looked at what was happening to his agricultural land. In Celje, we talked about agricultural land. We are the area most degraded and have problems with agricultural land, with food processing. This is our long-standing problem and we, although we are an industrial city, very much mean where agricultural land is, what is being done with it, how it is managed, what will happen to it in the future, and not least how it is planned. Of course, you know that we have a lot of soil pollution in Celje, as a result of the past or, finally, the current major industrial activities. Traffic is just a dot on the i, which gives its seal or finally also a tone in the public eye. Here, when I am listening to the debate between colleagues, what is most important, my colleague Saiovic mentioned and touched another ministry or we are also talking about the Ministry of Transport, which is after all what gets something or will have to be created, but we have also touched the Ministry of Culture. I'll remember eight, nine years ago when we were talking about the Dolenjska route and it was all about archaeology. I just hope that this route you're talking about, which you're going to talk about, doesn't come to archaeology. But you know, since I'm from home, I'm sure something will come up. Slovenia writes a new history, new due to material remains or last but not least resources, which are also written on new writings at the construction of the highway cross in Prekmursk. At the same time, the price list for archaeology was redesigned. That's why this number you have right now, which we're talking about, is still, as I'm going to say, a cloud in the sky that's still not complete. For me, this debate is so good if the employees of the ministries listen to it, and I will not only talk about the two ministries that are here, but about the ministries. Of course, for the Ministry of the Economy, it is likely that the best estimate, the Minister of Transport also has the best price of the route, the Minister of Agriculture of the best agricultural area, the Ministry of Culture must retain all that archeology, all that heritage and so on. But what would happen if, in the meantime, only the administration or officials asked what is best for all of us, for the Slovenes. So here today, when you say some people, that policy, that policy, and that policy, for God's sake, let's ask ourselves once again that the road cross in the Slovenian space is absolutely necessary. We need, we need a link between the north and the south, because, as colleague Kontič said, the Koros are far away and are finally heading for Austria. No one today mentioned my Cossacks or, finally, this complete southern area, for which the third development axis is also supposed to be. I hope that both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Environment and Space are considering linking the link and the transport link to this area. This is also an essential part of the third development axis that I am not talking about the link forward towards Dolenjska, which colleague Weber mentioned at the outset that these links are. When we talk about the economy, I have a letter here before me, which is that on 15 March the city council will once again debate, reopen the debate on why this decision was, after all, a decision. The municipal municipality of Celje was involved in the debate already in 2007, and so are the papers, with arguments from the target economy, which also needs transport connections. Speaking of Gorenje, the great giant, we have in Celje Store Steel, and we have Cincarna, and other large companies that need transport connections for their development, for their work, for their quick communication. And now, of course, what's the best, what's the best, what's the cheapest and so on. Here these questions will open up and I think myself, and I think it would be wonderful for a fellow Minister of Agriculture to think very much on his own, because obviously so far there has been no time to talk among the ministries, and especially among the officials, I will say, at the second, third, fourth and fifth levels, what would be the best thing to do, because here obviously comes, as far as we have heard, the fifth number on agricultural areas, the number of values and so on, to order and make sure, probably in your own environment, what is most important to him, because when we talk about the 9,000 500 hectares of the best agricultural land we need, and this is one essential strategy in the future. It is very important, however, how the Minister will finally decide whether or not he will give his consent and where he is going. I think that's one of the most important things about this story. Of course, I respect civil initiatives, I work with civil initiatives in Celje, because I can't imagine how the environmental issues would go without them, and I respect them. So far, we have not had any problems, all we have talked to them has been transparently clear, evident with arguments, with clear scientific research. I believe that I am such a man or a woman of my heart that I believe what someone says to me. But they can carry me around here. I hope, Minister of the Jews, that neither of you, we are both trustworthy men. You came very openly to the field, listened to the civil initiative, trusted. I believe you now have a conversation with a colleague and a good colleague, because you think best, and as I said, there is also a third, colleague Patrick Vlačič, who is also involved in the action, that the matter will be the best glass and the most fair for all of us. And finally, most importantly, here, my colleague over there, the promises for this third development axis were made that in 2008 plans would be drawn up and things would start to build again. Now that we are in 2011, the first plans have come to an end, we have the possibility that the third development axis will run out immediately. But with the wrong debate, with the wrong conclusions, with the "I don't hear right" one and the other, we're not going anywhere. I find this debate by colleague Loyzet Posedel very good if we know how to steer it in a positive direction, without accusing or even criticising each other. I also listen in the field, "Yes, you are now Social Democrats, and you and your buddy Kontic are always in your hair or here on other shores." I don't think so. We also tell each other in the back of the back of a lot of people, in particular, we tell each other, but we both have the same goal of connecting Koroška as soon as possible with the highway cross and of unloading very dangerous sections and, finally, the large number of dead people we have in this area and helping to maximize the accuracy of the economy, both from Velenje and Celje. So that the debate that we are having here today, and we will also finish it, I am very much in favour, but with positive objectives. And the debate, now a colleague from our national party has left, they have a bad quota to cover, I'll say, wasting time, and we've heard everything from agriculture, but I don't know anything yet, but this kind of debate about hostility or non-cooperation – far from that. I see that in this government we are participating and that we are going on an open stage and also on an open stage here we are talking publicly about what is bad and what is urgently needed for all of us, for national interests. In this case, it is of great national interest, such as roads, transport connections, infrastructure and the use of our small Slovenian area for agricultural areas and to preserve not least the past, such as cultural heritage. Minister, I wish you good cooperation, we are Members here to continue to help you and to help you in the field with civil initiatives. But you really have to have the same data sitting here, the same papers, and you agree with it, so your coworkers are, I'll say, those who provide you with all this data. Above all, I want colleagues on your left to know each other and, above all, to participate much better in all these content. My support and, in particular, the support of all members of the Social Democrats continue, as the third development axis will be built, I am sure, in this short period of time, as the government of Mr Pahor is. However, I am sure that in the future we will be very constructively involved in solving these problems that have arisen to me very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Menich has the floor. Get Mrs. Nigga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to both ministers with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greetings! My colleague Kontiè has previously beautifully outlined all the problems in the Shaleska Valley and I have to agree with him and also support everything he has said. I am pleased that activity has recently accelerated with regard to the placement of the third development axis in space. There have been some meetings and meetings recently. The dates are also set for the public decomposition of the spatial location of the route into the space. I hope that both ministers will harmonise their work and their orientations and decisions regarding the placement of the third development axis into space. We welcome the new law on agricultural land, but on the other hand we must also focus on the economy, entrepreneurs, tourism, which is characteristic of SASA region and Zgornjesavinj valley. Passengers are saturated with traffic and in very poor condition. Šostanj is completely saturated with traffic and we urgently need to get on the fast road. We must also not forget the link to the Koro region. Economists, entrepreneurs, tourists and all 10 mayors of SASA of the region are calling on both ministers to join the third development axis as soon as possible in the area from Šentrupert to Velenje and further to Koroška, which is of paramount importance. We have problems with the production of OPNs, obtaining guidelines is long-term. In particular – in the municipality of Šostanj we have been waiting for 10 months for the response of the agricultural ministry, to the guidelines. We have more than 150 applications for change of destination submitted. Our citizens are getting nervous, constantly asking how long this will take, and they are already losing their patience. I want both ministers to approach this serious issue and coordinate their work as soon as possible. In the end, I'd say time is gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you. Ms Črnugelj has the floor to prepare Mr Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Minister, Colleagues and colleagues! Spatial planning is a complex force and, above all, for the one doing it, an interesting business. But it's connected to a lot of different, very intertwined interests. And because of such diverse and complex interests, even when a person does not expect, some conflicts that are not typical can be atypical. I believe that it is the profession that can tell how, in what way, which route, in which area, and can also make appropriate calculations, it is finally possible to do comparative and analytical work, comparable, with different countries in the world, not only in Europe. But there's been a conflict with us. Unfortunately, these conflicts, I would say, are fateful, and if I finally say so, we must be aware that they are repeated. Some say the time for sobering is coming. And of course this time must come in some way. How are we gonna sober up? Will these be civilian initiatives that will tell us how? Maybe. They certainly do not point to the point, one way or another, but to one wisdom and to the actual constant negotiation and conversation, even though my colleague Kontic may have escaped that there is no room to discuss these matters here and not a place to discuss them. But I think it is. If I recall, say, the installation of a route that has passed and is almost finished, and it is called the Ljubljana Oblast, a lot of people today say, yes, but maybe it would be better if we listened to this or that and I don't know what it's all about, including some professors from this or that college. It's better if we talk and make it sound like we don't. Because despite being from Ljubljana, they turned to me from Koroška, from Kozjansk. Each has its own way of looking at how and how it works. Given that I am not interested in this, I certainly want optimal options and solutions and that there will be such a solution that every economic operator will find itself in maintaining a cultural heritage, making optimal economic use of everything, not least that the landscape will be protected, and that we will have a standard of highway construction, as some of our neighbours do, but that I am not talking about a standard that is most banal, which is called anti-group protection or some other standard that we have so far, in these past years building motorways, unfortunately we have not been able to realize in the same way as we would like those who know that motorway investments are for the future. And when you load the money, it needs to be loaded optimally and most qualitatively, not with some questionable and I don't know what kind of materials. The problem is also in procedures, in administrative barriers. I think that Parliament is, however, a space for the legislative side, perhaps also to find some optimal solutions and find different rules and other legal provisions, which would nevertheless make these procedures endless, and we know how painful it is for some economic and legal and natural persons, that I do not speak to anyone who is very painful, no matter what field of activity it is. I don't want to mention it, because some people said that we are here each marked with our own story and so, I have to admit that maybe also because I am a user, I walk in Slovenia or I drive these highways and I wish they were better and better quality. With respect to trust in the register of information. I think there have been quite a few doubts on this subject. When we discussed the Law on Archive and Documentary Material, we unfortunately paid attention to only one segment, but I think that in general we could light this law from other layers, which would be far more interesting for the profession, such as agriculture, transport and relations, construction and not know what all together, because this is the basis, I mean, some historical heritage and everything else that it is. Studies, number of studies – there were many. I know some studies or some areas that have 10, 15, including 20 studies that are very similar, different or even the same author. How long and how long? Who's gonna stop it and say, "Now that's enough, we have to make a decision." This is a big question and the dilemma remains, and that is why conversation and discussion are also needed at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Spatial planning, someone earlier said, is a very complex, difficult job. I understand that, too, but not in perfection, because I'm standing on the other side. I am among those who need this space, and it is difficult in some environment to tell entrepreneurs, farmers, citizens and citizens that these are long-term procedures and that we need some 42 guidelines if I have the right information to obtain the appropriate documentation to discuss the municipal spatial plan. This does not mean that, since 2007, the relevant ministries have not obtained such guidelines and have not completed procedures so that local communities can adopt their municipal spatial plans. Probably, what I said is that both the environment and the agricultural minister have their own perspective and would give me the right answer. Not as much to me as those who need this place as I said before. People simply and simply cannot prove that they cannot do in this room what they need to do basically for the operation of their company, the farmer for the operation of the farm or in the final stage of the municipality, citizen, citizen, citizen who wants to build a house. Even more so, he does not understand that we cannot negotiate or that these negotiation procedures run for as long as we want to build public buildings in a certain area in local communities. I'm talking about a school now. I'll compare this hall to a one-stop shop. Half of this plot is wally, so to speak, the local community can build a school and the other half is agricultural. I think we need to find a solution here, Minister of Agriculture, even though I am a great advocate of agricultural processing. What you said and said, and not just you, including your previous, about 880 square metres per inhabitant in Slovenia, that this is significantly below the European average, is a worrying matter. But for such cases, we must find a common solution in order to have a place where young people will go and educate themselves. This is the future potential of this country. If we don't have one of these, there won't be any heirs. And, above all, we also need to think carefully and to conclude procedures substantially earlier. The municipal spatial plan is a complex matter. It is right that we have also talked today about the third development axis. Not only is the third development axis very important, but it is of course very important, especially for the mayors of municipalities, that they also have municipal spatial plans and I cannot easily understand these matters. It's taking too long, we need to speed things up, get more human resources if you don't have enough people. Because people in the field can't understand it, and I'm the one who's very hard to understand for so long not to come up with these solutions. Look, we have cities, I'm not talking about every village right now, because fashion is in the Slovenian space, where we have 211 municipalities at the moment, that every municipality would like to have a business or industrial or craft zone, as they call it. I agree that it cannot be in every village and cannot be on the best agricultural land. I agree with that, too, and we all agree, but that some cities do not have and have no chance of any development, either for domestic entrepreneurs or, if you like, for foreign entrepreneurs, to offer space to build a factory in this area at a time when we have a very difficult economic crisis, recession, and every job still means a lot to us. Bureaucrats, however, who run these ministries, must not limit this to us, because it means they do not work in the interests of citizens and citizens. Please try to speed this thing up faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. [[He's not here.]] Please, Breda Roast.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u164	I've got the microphone on, so I don't want to give you the word of president this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u165	You've already lost something.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u166	I will only say a few words about how we should actually receive as soon as possible, because when it is planned in space and we are interfering with agricultural land, we will check the agricultural land ratings of which we are talking as soon as possible. According to my experience I can say that in many areas agricultural land ratings are much lower, but also higher, of course, but I know of many areas where it is much lower than it was set there in the 1970s and that is why we have it, or in the 1980s, because this valuation of agricultural land was again in the 1980s before the adoption of social plans by 1990 and then by 2000. Why am I saying this? Because the agricultural ministry, of course, also many quasi-civil initiatives refer to the valuation of agricultural land without any real professional basis. I therefore welcome the fact that in the Agricultural Lands Act, the Ministry of Agriculture has taken over the cost of re-evaluation of agricultural land. I think this should be initiated immediately after the adoption of the law. I know that this will cost a great deal for the state budget, but since this is linked to the adoption of municipal spatial plans, it can certainly be timed so that it will not be delayed by the adoption of municipal spatial plans, while at the same time it will be a realistic assessment of what is going on with agricultural land. However, it would be good to consider that when it comes to real problems or the real problem of unnecessary interference with the best agricultural land, it may be, no, it may be, it may be, it may be, it may be, it is, in Braslovča or in the area where unnecessary interference with agricultural land has occurred, but the reaction of the authorities in the ministries responsible for this, which are responsible, is much too slow and, above all, it should be decided when it comes to highway routes, railway routes and other infrastructure facilities of state importance, as well as the municipal importance, but let us leave, I would now concentrate, because it is all together, in particular this conversation, mainly due to the road connection of Velenje, but the highway there is in Savina Valley, I think that it will be necessary to consider and weigh, or to move the roads to some less valuable area, although the country itself is, that the road itself is, that the road itself is, or the road itself is, or the road itself, or the road itself, but the road itself, or the scale should be reduced by the scale. So when we look at the presentations of this area, which is currently in the debate, I think it should be said that the road is twice as expensive because of this. It is necessary to know that agricultural land will remain there forever because, in accordance with the Agricultural Lands Act, these areas will be declared protected areas of agricultural land, as permanently protected areas of agricultural land. The witness is a value we can talk about. Since it is a century-old or two-hundred-year valuation against a one-off investment, the depreciation of this investment is certainly reimbursed during the period that ensures the processing of agricultural land. I'd just like to say one more thing. However, it is not always necessary to sit on various civil initiatives because sometimes it is also necessary to check what is actually behind their offensive interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Chad, Kek, Petan. The word has Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! Today's debate, although we regret it, given the importance of the debate and the very often debate in the National Assembly by opposition colleagues about the need for individual areas in the Republic of Slovenia, and in connection with the roads, I am somewhat sorry that these colleagues are not present today. I'm really sorry. In particular, because I am also coming from an area for which, in fact, today, March 3rd, a significant start has begun. I hope that the important beginning in connection with this, as presented at the press conference yesterday by the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic and Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič, has begun to publicize the first section of the third development axis, the southern part. It's about areas that I've talked about many times, and I think it's right that I can't avoid it at all. This is the area of south-eastern Slovenia, Dolenjska, which is the highway cross, which was last completed on the lower leg. There have been many comments recently, even some extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Transport. I think we're even going to continue, we probably heard a lot of things at the hearing, but apparently, somehow some didn't fit that highway cross on the bottom leg, though the last one. It would be a pleasure for me to think that we are all on the right track together to be the first to do this project. Above all, in connection with the two ministers, whom I welcome here, in connection with the fact that this area has been very neglected for a long time. On the one hand, he mentioned many things, and I will repeat many times myself, which are important Slovenian exporters or the largest, such as Revoz and Krka, and on the other hand in the area of infrastructure, i.e. road infrastructure, long ago this has not been done. I am convinced that there is no fault of this government, and probably of which governments from before, that it would not be possible for any of the opposition's colleagues to be debated in any way in a negative sense. But I think it's about time. Especially because there are problems that have arisen. Yesterday's debate was also interesting, and even at some earlier meetings, related to payment non-discipline, it was interesting to hear some of the issues related to 2008 when we discussed the Government's priorities by the end of the term of office. Although I recall on 7 November 2008 when I was discussing the appointment of the Prime Minister of the Government, I was talking about coming from an area facing major problems in the textile industry, problems, possible unemployed. Many then said, "What a crisis, there is no crisis" and so on. It's an incredible turn of events. I also remember that in January 2008 even in the White Country, economists said that it was difficult to get workers. Today's story is completely different. However, since we are now in the debate, colleague Kontič has touched on what this debate will bring, perhaps we are also smaller, only given that the point itself is strategically looking at the overall coherent development and the promotion of coherent regional development throughout Slovenia, but I think that the debate is of the utmost importance. Not only for those who are sitting here now, but we are probably from areas where there are problems, like colleagues from Kočevsko, like colleagues from Koroška, Savinja-Salah region and so on, we are the majority here, but Idria, Bovsko, so there are some areas where you can see exactly that we are here. I'm sure Zasavje too. However, in relation to agricultural land, because I am also coming from an area where, in connection with the third development axis, we are going to be dealing with this public decomposition, it will now bring about and show how the responses are. One decommissioning has already been carried out in Dolenjska, New Town, prior to the examination of the opinion. And somehow the conclusion is that, as the Minister of Transport Dr. Vlačič also talked about, that people in this area are not only expecting and the economy is waiting for this road, there will be a presentation tomorrow at Otočac to the organisation of the Chamber of Economics of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina and the Society for the Roads of South-Eastern Slovenia, a public presentation of the third axis of development to the economy, as well as to the representatives of the policy and the course, and also of importance. It is of the utmost importance that we have been united in recent years. I remember in July 2008, when we came before the then Transport Minister, the Belarusian representatives of the municipalities and of Dolenjska, that we have united and we expect the procedure to proceed. I remember a colleague earlier who was a minister, who is now a fellow Member, who said "middle management" did not react and did what he was supposed to do." If we were not already on the issue in relation to agricultural and other land, but given the preparation of the project, as far as I am aware, this was a very large involvement of the competent ministries. I also wish that in areas where agricultural activity is of exceptional importance, there would be no manipulation or speculation in relation to land, land size and so on. However, even for some agricultural land, if it is found that it is strategically important to talk about the third development axis, it is a pan-European corridor throughout Slovenia and, if we look at it, because I live on the border with Croatia, Croatia will also have a motorway connection to the territory of Slovenia within a few months, so only this area from Koriska to White Krajina will be one that has no European connection. Therefore, I propose that agricultural land also be identified, both with ministries and with initiatives, possible and municipalities, that we come to a solution here, even if some land needs to be cut a little bit, reduce it in size to the benefit of development. Here I am convinced that the Minister of Agriculture will also decide in some way in favour of the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. [[He's not here.]] East of the Crossbow. [[He's not here.]] Willie Rezman [[No, no, ……]] , Vito Rojej [[No, no, ……]] , Dr. Peter Verlich [[No, no, ……]] , Anton Urh [[No, no, ……]] , Miran Györek [[No, no, ……]] , Franc Puksich [[No, no, ……]] , Milenko Ziherl [[No, no, ……]] , Aloise Posedel [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak apologized, Tadej Slapnik [[No, no, ……]] , Jože Tanko [[No, no, ……]] , Borut Saiovic [[No, no, ……]] . Lois Posedel at the time of the parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to stress that the initiative to discuss this issue has been very, very well-intentioned. That perhaps some of the undertones of Comrade Kontić's words may indicate something else, but I repeat, extremely well-intentioned, and I am convinced that such discussions, without being unproductive, should be more than that in Parliament. However, apparently such topics that have a direct impact on people’s lives, not least on the consumption of tax money, are obviously not interesting. These aren't archives, they're not ideological fights, they're just needing to be specifically discussed here, and that's why, despite the fact that there's not enough presence, I'm sure that this debate will achieve its purpose and that it's always different. Nor has the proposal for a debate ever stated that the ministries are not cooperating or even fighting, but it has been stressed that what is happening is incomprehensible and unacceptable. It cannot be that one ministry has a strong negative position and the other ministry, following a decision by the Government, overwhelms this professionally important opinion in this way, as was the case in the case of the Braslovč building, or, as is clear, goes on in this story. So perhaps the excuse that the former government had accepted is really out of place. This was accepted by the previous government, but already former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Iztok Jarc, has made it very clear that it is an extremely negative position and that the ministry has pointed out many mistakes in the environmental assessment. It's a document. As soon as the Government adopted this decision on the launch of the State Spatial Plan, the Civil Initiative was the first to draw attention to the need to revise the evaluation of the selected route. This is the essence and it may also be those assessments of how civil initiatives are sometimes harmful. It's probably true, but in a particular case, in the beginning, I made it very clear that these are people who have a lot of expertise and cooperate with institutions. I'm glad my colleague Kontic says, "Why don't we trust the designers, why should we deceive people?" I also have full confidence in the sentence written in the study of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia by Dr. Vršaj, "Decision 2007 – as the best chosen route of F2 – I assess as an example of the irrational, unwise and consumer use of space and as an extremely poor example of the placement of large infrastructure facilities in space". This is probably an evaluation by an expert who can be trusted because it is supported by all the analyses that led him to this assessment. And I am also pleased to say, colleague Kontič says that there is a need to compare apples and apples in this further process. This was precisely the one great thing the Civil Initiative has always pointed out that the evaluation criteria for all routes and the method of evaluation that led F2 to the top with a result of 114 to 12 were uneven. For example, they were all evaluated by weighting 1 and crossing the tennis course meant that the best agricultural land had been overrun. Therefore, I am pleased that further consideration will be given to "apples and apples", I think there were "apples and pears" in this study, which was the basis for choosing this route. The development pocket is not bad thinking on my part, but it is copied from an article in Dinner, writer is Mr Peter Rezman, who discusses the situation in Velenje. You can wave with your hand, but there is probably little truth in this reflection, or this route follows a developmental direction, that we have the axis link Celovec-Cele or we have a side path or the proximity of Velenje-Ljubljana. When you talk about the voice of the economy, it is very unfair that this road is only important for the economy of the Silesian Valley. Since 2008, the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Celje, the Chamber of Commerce, all agricultural cooperatives, all hopers, all that works in this area of the Celje region, has warned ministries and governments that it is necessary to re-examine whether we will have a narrow development axis or something else. Apparently, then, "something else" prevailed and never wanted, as you said, these routes, these evaluations put back on the table and found out whether it was the first study signed by 12 experts, of which three doctors and all others, or whether it was the right decision of the second study made by one company, d. o. o., two graduate engineers. And the obvious thing that I don't think is in place is that the costs are going to be higher because the route is retreating to the robberies and that's why there's going to be a bigger slaughterhouse and higher costs. The misleading and unrealistic display of data has been carried out since the beginning of this route's decision. I already quoted the Ministry of the Environment as operating at an estimated value of 198 million last week. I'll go on then, in my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you again for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I didn't know if I was going to call again, but some of the points were, so I would like to give a few more things as a thought, because this debate does not have any final conclusions anyway, but it was in this sense quite interesting and it was a reminder of a lot of things that are causing problems in this room. I have to say that I agree with most of the speakers, and everyone has highlighted one problem, a lot of them have gone away from the key topic that was raised by a colleague of the Poseda, and which seems important to me, and that is, however we speak and say nicely, how we have all for some of the development issues, but we do not have some specific strategies within this country, or more when I listen to answers and discussions, I note that it is possible, however, that one good strategy at the level of the country, given that there is a lack of money in all areas, given that we have only built and placed the basic highway cross in place in the past times, when we can build and work a little more deliberately and also put into space, that now there is an opportunity for similar activities, such as these, when the two ministries coordinate a document for several years, but not only this segment, and we are also probably putting it into space, that we are now with other developmentalities. Such an explanation is also possible in this case. And the same is true of the problem arising from municipal spatial plans, where we have been warning for a long time that these procedures are actually taking too long, that a large part of the blame at the Ministry of Agriculture, which does not respond in a transparent manner, does not adhere to either the procedures of the ZUP or others, I would say, the legal obligations. We have warned him that he has old data to operate on data produced in some past period, where the values of the land are estimated to be no longer real in a space where some do not even know what the intended use of space is, what the planned use of space is, what it is in the cadastral use and so on and what certain officials are arguing with each other in the ministries, but here I am not talking about ministers, but officials. That is also why there are major delays in individual documents that should be produced. Since I have been in several committees dealing with development, both in the economy, transport and the environment, I know what we have concluded in the past, and I must say that in the field of transport we have taken quite a few conclusions for other development axes, where the initiative has been given that sections that do not need to be added to space are given priority. That's not happening either. It was also an initiative to approach certain sections by including inter-ethnic location plans, where the interest of local communities could be stronger and quality solutions coordinated in space could be better achieved. Most of us don't do that either. Earlier, there was a talk about when this was the best price, one of the colleagues discussed how we could get into the stage of performance and also to the problem of digging and so on. This is all true, but we have not even come up with a national location plan for important sites in the last period. This applies to line objects as well as larger objects connected to, say, waste and similar things. Also, the law that we adopted to speed up the placement of important facilities into the space remained only at that first stage. At that time, the Minister made it clear that some five amendments to the legislation should be adopted. Nothing's happening. And we're talking about how to speed things up. I believe that there is simply no cooperation between the ministries and nothing helps that all ministries in Ljubljana are more harmful, obviously this proximity is more harmful, and this smokyness among officials is growing more than clearing up. Perhaps we should scatter them a little, then drive from one place to another, and understand what putting them into a space in a broader sense is, so that it is possible to move forward. You are all talking about the great interest in establishing communication, of course it is true, but when we get to concrete projects, things stop. They do not stop at ministers who have the will to resolve it, they stop at an official work where things are interpreted in their own way or in their own way, or in their own way, however anyone wants them. And it is true that development along the highway and where the motorways have been upgraded is significantly greater and more successful than in those areas that do not actually have these possibilities. This is a problem of coherent regional development, however we wish to say it. And where there is desire, there is also a change in the destination of land. Well, not to be very specific, I'll just say: in Ljubljana. The other mayors will know that this is very difficult to do, but somewhere they can do it. That's a question to be asked, too. It is interesting, however, that we are sitting in the National Assembly now at this hearing, and virtually most of the mayors of the former mayors, Mr Tone Anderlič, who will always join us at the end of the debate to give some clumps to the final debate. But that is also the fact that the mayors in this Parliament are also interested in important issues and I do not know why some are trying to drive them out of Parliament. I think that the mayors have quite a lot to say about the impact of the brown legislation and how it can be implemented. I would also point to this, as I said, given that I am sitting on several committees which are linked to the development of the mismatch of strategies. When we read the energy strategy, we read the spatial strategy, we read the transport development strategy, if anyone can combine it, I don't know how it's going to happen. Earlier there was a talk about the need to link Koroška to the third development axis, given that it has better links to Austria than to Slovenia. I absolutely support this, but I don't know how we're going to speed this up, given that we've been warning all the time on all the committees, especially the Ministry of Environment and Space, about these placement problems, but in fact there hasn't been much movement in the last period. And I think that such questions, which have been somehow produced and voted to discuss this at all, are, after all, useful, perhaps for the ministry, maybe for someone who listens, but in any case, more cooperation between the ministries will be needed. This would probably have led to a project being implemented more quickly. As for the debates that have touched on municipal spatial plans, and I absolutely agree with that, there are many restrictions here that prevent quality accommodation, mostly problems are reduced to the Ministry of Agriculture. Unfortunately, this will have to be leased, despite the fact that there is a great deal of consensus. I don't think that's good, and we've been pointing this out for almost two years. I wanted to say this in a way, so I will not be talking about even in our area from which I come, the development of the road network is needed as a fourth development axis. Maybe for illustration – even when I get to Ljubljana, I drive across Italy, but maybe this part will be closer to me, and sometimes I'll turn there. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Environment and Space? Yeah. First Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u174	It'll be very short. That's all I'd like to say to Mr Daniel the Blameer. I fully agree, at this point in time, with the permits we give at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. As far as spatial acts are concerned, it is no longer a matter of time, from week to week, from the end of the law, the Parliament and the whole group of people have actually been working again for the entire working time of these projects. It's riddled somewhere else. It is puzzling because so far it has not really been known which land to use and which land to think of as developmental. And that is why this law, which is currently in Parliament, which in fact predetermines what permanent agricultural land is – and is urgently needed in Slovenian food production – and what remains, where compromises are, is so important. And I, Mr. Member, just please, will do much for the congregation if you support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. He wants a word with the Minister for Environment and Space? Please, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u176	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, dear colleagues! This debate today is pleased to see how difficult it is for us to put our work into space. The last time we were in Velenj – the Member said we were there – Minister Vlačič said one interesting thing. The Dutch, who are highly democratically developed and are very strong, have succeeded in bringing the average duration of placement into a 14 to 7-year-old space. The Chinese, who are bigger and more effective, I won't say anything else, but from decision to drive happens within 3 to 4 years. We're somewhere a little bit more evolving and we're coming from this Chinese into a more Dutch system. Let's say this third axis will take about five and a half years from the idea to the decomposition. Therefore, the point is to say a little, the mayor's or a member's lady praised that today we have put the first part of the southern leg under the roof, into a decomposition, and 10 will be the middle part of the northern leg, while the beginning of April there will be two legs in the northern part. I think we'll have some sort of alignment by then. However, if we are not able to agree on what we are discussing today, I think it is worthwhile, at least as far as we are concerned, our ministry is concerned that we complete one phase of this with decomposition. Then there's the debate. If there is no consensus this month, there is also a possibility that another option will begin. That's all that means for the next 4, 5 years. But as far as our ministry is concerned, we will complete the 2006 mission and then continue. I can trust our colleagues, who sometimes say they envy their colleagues in the agricultural ministry, because they care – but I don't think they envy them – for one thing, but we have many to coordinate, including our naturalists in the house. This is probably more problematic and difficult, but, well, we're somehow successful, we see, maybe not as much as you want. However, I must say that good personal relations between ministers are also good for good relations between co-workers. We regularly meet with fellow workers with Minister Vlačič and Minister Židan, and we have introduced one such good practice. We touch a lot of things, last time we talked about the Scoundrel and we found some quick solutions for a year, and some medium-term for a little more. Today, we show that we are two ministers who can also agree on this matter within our own rules. I think that these good relations between colleagues remain good practice, and I am sure that solutions will therefore be more satisfactory than they have been before. Thank you very much for this debate. I told my colleague that it's worth sitting here tonight because we're learning a lot and we're seeing a little bit of how you're responding to those questions that bother us. You don't think we have a dilemma, just like you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I can't say anything. I can't. But there's only one thing I'm going to say is that the most expensive route is the road that isn't. Replica? Yeah, sure, it's time, yeah. Please. The entry for the incorrect indication.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u178	I'll be brief. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u179	No, no, no. He has the right to correct the wrong statement, the wrong statement of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u180	Well, Minister Židan also mentioned me. On my part, he has support for such a proposal as has been mentioned. But I was disturbed by the final thought of the Minister for Environment and Space, who said, "Well, if there's no route, we'll be thinking about a new route." Then where is the expertise that was previously discussed by all our discussers, where there was talk about how to discuss it, listens to the initiative, but then decides on some sort of professional basis. You have now concluded: if nothing happens, this new solution means the next 4 to 5 years. This is the problem that we have because any civil initiative that arises can cause a delay for the next five years. The cruelest part of this is that none of this civil initiative responds, none assumes any responsibility. There is an additional burden on the ministry, on all other departments, on the civil initiative, but one that breaks the matter has no responsibility. Where's the profession? Your answer went in this direction, if someone exerts more pressure, a new matter is being sought. Where are we going? We're about to put a 30-year case in place because there's always going to be a new civil initiative. This has to be resolved in the long run.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The Minister for Environment and Space, Dr. Roko Žarnic, appeared. He has the right as minister to debate when he wants to, if he still has time. So I have to give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u182	I'm sorry, just for a little while. Maybe I was a little too vague. I'll be more honest with you. Here was to get to Velenja multiple variants. I thought in this study of variants, unless it turns out otherwise, the only alternative will be to choose one of the remaining ones, and that is three years from the choice. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer, Lois Posedel? He does. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. It is always most interesting towards the end, and even this debate or these statements now point to something that is true at the beginning of this problem. In fact, the debate is required because all of this period, which began in 2007 and 2008, with the decision of the Government, was not taken into account and did not want to hear that the chosen route was probably not the best. And only with proper expert analysis would these years, which some are now likely to have with their levers, lead to the obvious that the civil initiative is to blame, that it is the fault of those who ask why this route does not indicate that civil initiative or I, as a proponent, oppose this road. No, no, no. The work of the civil initiative and my desire for this debate is precisely due to the right and good attitude towards Slovenian agricultural land and, above all, to tax money. Today, one more word was not said about the costs. The route started working on data published by the ILO last week. EUR 198 million from the 2007 design budget, with all the optimizations, no increase, with the costs clearly missing in this assessment, both in terms of the slaughterhouse. At 5.6% of the clan, it is likely that withdrawal belts will be needed, not anywhere in these estimates. The village area in Velenje is nowhere to be evaluated. Covering the trench route — no estimate of how much it will cost. Construction of three tunnels through geologically inappropriate volcanic rocks — nowhere estimated. And when the experts associated with the civil initiative repeat the experts, dealing with these numbers, and who watched the show Verified, they could hear that the average price of the fast price in Slovenia is 8.7 million per kilometer, so that the price can be 24 million and a few million more per kilometer. These are the numbers that will probably hurt the head of the one who will have to give his consent on such a route. If I finish. Once again, I am sure that this debate was good, particularly well-intentioned, not to prevent construction, but to make the right decision, a professional decision which I think was not in this whole story. And also yesterday at the presentation of the other routes, two draft State Spatial Plan for the Third Development Axis, Minister Žarnic said at the press conference that it was not a decision on construction, the decision was taken by the Government. I agree with that. And that until the decommissioning of the State Spatial Plan, the Ministry carried out strict professional and political neutral work. With that statement you made, I can afford it, I disagree. Perhaps for you, yes, but it would be good to ask your associates as well. From the statements we have seen and heard that the Chairman of the Committee for the Construction of the Third Development Axis has confirmed that he has been at the Ministry with your colleagues since the time when the route was chosen, that he has also been to the Ministry many times, and Mr Kontič, if you wave with your hands, on the website of your party SD Velenje, the City Committee, is very well written: "At that time there has been a conflict between the two proposed routes of the third development axis, either the central economic centre of the third development axis of Celje or Velenje. This battle was thus won on Wednesday, 25. 2. 2009 when Velenje visited the Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič and expressed his full support for the Velenje route." I apologize for reading this to you because I know you know this because it is on your website, but I think it is good that in this debate we also ask ourselves how many times has been taken by policy in this Slovenia. I'm not talking about this particular case, maybe yes, maybe not, but also for further work. I only hope that Minister Židan will retain this attitude, which he has beautifully predicted, and that this debate, the confrontation of these arguments, will take place on the basis of arguments and that then the decision will be the best decision for Velenje's development, all places at the third axis, especially for taxpayers, and in order to reach this path as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? That's what one wanted. I'm filing a report. I'm asking you to sign in, or I'm opening a report. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, once again. A few things have been said that don't hold. If I start with that one, otherwise I expected one of those guys to say it. It was said that the price of the road going through the U.S. area was not taken into account. It's not about the U.S. area, as far as I know. Does that information hold? It does not go around the Ugresin area and not deceive in this House. The second story is that of which the SDS gentleman spoke, and very cleverly he said - the civil initiative bears no responsibility if it collapses the project. The responsibility lies with you, distinguished representatives of the Government, and partly with us here in Parliament and finally with a decision to make, otherwise we can put the road in place for the next 100 years and we will not put it in the room. And if I heard it right before, it was said that the dearest was the one who didn't. I agree with that, Mr President, that's what you said. I'm sure this road that's not here is the most expensive. Mrs Silva Montenegro, we would apply for the floor and discuss it until we have to, otherwise the Rules of Procedure limit it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u187	Mr Kontic, please, she can't answer anything, you're continuing your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u188	for a call, but well, we'll deal with this ourselves in the parliamentary group. [[...]] So that's true. It is therefore necessary to put specific data on the table and not operate with those who do not support it. Who was at the Ministry of Environment and Space? And that's where the mayors pass the keys? Mr Posedel, I'm sure you went to the Ministry as well. Reliable. That's where people pass the keys, because that's where they get rid of things. I think that's how this country works. Now someone's lobbying, someone's not lobbying, that's another thing. If you think I'm lobbying for this Velenje-Sentrupert axis, I say I support this axis. Reliable and I'll keep going and you can call me a lobbyist, a jester, whatever you want, you can tell me. And I don't agree that the development axis is only if Koroška is connected to Celje. I don't agree to that. Because the link between Koroška – Velenje – Šentrupert and central Slovenia is as developmental or even more so than she. The important thing is that those who do not have a fast road and do not have that link, we get that road. No matter where we live in Slovenia, this means the possibility of further development. Fast road is the backbone of development, including more coherent regional development. You can't do without her. And when the economy warns and we can hear that, it probably warns because it knows the situation because it knows the problems of logistics, but it needs logistics if it wants to develop further, regardless of where it is in Slovenia. And when we talk about agricultural land, we need to keep it safe, and I agree that we need to keep it safe. But if we keep them safe, Prekmurje never gets a fast road. There is no way to make it in Prekmurje without hitting the agricultural land. But it is necessary to evaluate matters of what it means to develop an individual road, depending on what part it is placed in. And it's not about rivalry, and I'm not telling anyone to maliciously do anything. Everyone has the right to defend his or her position, regardless of where it comes from, because it is not insignificant, nor is the Grief irrelevant in this game. It is an important centre along this road and it is right to be included in the debate. But people, those who are on the highway cross, let those who are not on the highway cross, what we say about it, and decide how the road will get to us. Because it's really nice to have a fast road or a freeway, and then you get a picture of everything else. If nothing else, it's mostly selfish. And that is, because when we put such line projects into space, it's essentially like, "We support a fast road, we have nothing against a fast road, not even against a railway, just not near me, I would use it, just as it suits me, just don't come so close to me that it endangers my living space." It is necessary to face this data and I propose that you really continue this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u189	Sorry, Comrade Posedel, but I can't give you another word. We've closed the debate. We've divided the time. I'm sorry you didn't sign up. I can't give you another word. I can't allow you to do that anymore. We should apply to share time. It's also a long time ago agreement that there aren't two splits of time, just one. We have done our part and we have exhausted our jokers, and we have also exhausted our debate. I conclude the debate, and I also conclude the agenda. I am adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
