ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting or to continue the meeting: Flower Zalokar Orazem, Janja Klasinc from 11 a.m., Ljubo Germič, Alojz Potočnik, Matjaž Han from 13 a.m. on, mag. Vasja Klavora, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, Andrej Magajna, Roberto Battelli until 12.30, László Göncz until 12.30 and Zvonko Lah. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act on Road Traffic. The State Council is at the 31st extraordinary session, 31. 5. 2011 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Transport. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Bojan Papich. Please, Mr. Papich, for the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! I'd like to present the reasons that led us to vote veto. The main comments were on the three articles of the adopted law, on payment deadlines, on solidarity responsibility and on the control of licences transferred to legal entities. There are two reasons. One is legal-formal, we think all these three articles are constitutionally controversial. This is based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, which supports this opinion. Then there are substantive reasons. In particular, the Law on the Prevention of Delays in Payments, which was adopted in March, regulates this same area, and makes payment deadlines in a non-discriminatory manner. In this case, it is preferable to the part of the economy to others that it is not a matter of substance here, that this measure is not substantively justified, that is also borne witness to the known data of the IJPES for the month of May. Indeed, according to the AIPES, turnover from the point of view of default is not recorded as critical, and only a few data could be cited as the most critical for companies is construction with a 29.5% share, financial and insurance activities 15,9%, professional, scientific and technical activities with 13%, trade with 12%, processing activity 8,9% and turnover, storage with only 4,9%. The same is true for independent entrepreneurs, here we find that the outstanding liabilities over five days represent 28.9% of the share in construction, in trade is 16.3%, in the restaurant 13.7%, in the processing activity 12.4% and in transport and storage only 11.9%. The main reason for the problems in this business is quite different. Directly into this industry, small entrepreneurs entered completely without capital. A possible 10 years ago, the purchase of a truck required about 50% of its own resources, in 2006 and in 2006 and still practically with your ID card came to the means of transport and began to carry out this activity. Clearly, without capital it does not go practically to any activity and possibly to a result, this crisis is precisely due to a lack of own resources, both for the provision of basic and operational assets themselves. This applies mainly to small entrepreneurs. However, there are other reasons for large businesses or large companies. The largest company, where the problem is, has expanded to other activities, bought Systemic techniques, TAM, Novoles, Savo, Mercury, etc. And for the basic activity, there was no money left. As far as the second article in question is concerned, this is a so-called solidarity responsibility. Here we consider the matter to be completely inconsistent, as the carrier's obligation is guaranteed by a consignee who is practically unaware of the relationship between the carrier and between the carrier's transport customer, to the supplier. This is especially true because protection is provided by other institutions or by other laws. It is precisely in this activity that the so-called retention of goods is possible. Thus, if someone does not pay, the carrier shall have the right to retain the goods until payment of the obligation itself. Third thing. We think that it would be a significantly better solution for a chamber of similarities, as is the case in banking, to introduce a register of poor payers, non-payers or contentious subscribers and thereby practically clear up these problems. I have to say, if we go any further here, let's say that trade is more critical than transportation itself. Clear [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Mr Papič, please complete the argument gradually because your time has run out. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	With this responsibility, by analogy, it would mean that if we order something as a natural person as a citizen, we get something. Clearly, where we bought it does not pay the carrier, it is said that as a natural person we will jointly vouch for some non-business entity that sold us something. And then there's the third thing. License check.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Mr. Papich, please finish your presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Good. Thank you very much, no. In general, it is a law that has arisen under duress of the street and does not in fact have any objective reasons for receiving or re-confirming it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The request was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to President Janko Webr. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 22nd emergency meeting, on 7 June, the Transport Committee considered the State Council's request that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. At the meeting, the Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which notes that the State Council is justifying the request for re-voting on grounds that are both substantive and legal. The Legislative and Legal Service believes that the drafter of the law should explain in more detail why such solutions are necessary and what are the relevant reasons, including the constitutional nature with which such a solution is able to defend. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Government, which shows that the reasons for the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law are not justified. The law introduces the necessary changes in the field of road transport and makes it possible, in addition to those provisions, to regulate the field of public passenger transport. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also took part in the meeting, which notes that the professional arguments of the wider economy and the Legal and Legislative Service against the enforcement of the law have been overheared and that they have therefore suggested to the Committee that it should not be supported in the re-election. In addition, in a complementary explanation of the request of the State Council, its representative highlighted three controversial solutions introduced by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport, namely a 30-day payment period, a solidarity responsibility for payment of the fare only for motor activities and the transfer of control of licences from the jurisdiction of the State authorities to economic operators. The Council of State considers that there are no legitimate reasons why payment deadlines should be set separately for only one activity, as this means doubling the legislation on this issue, which already applies to the entire economy. In their view, the introduction of solidarity also does not guarantee the legal security of economic operators, since the solidarity payers do not have information on who the contracting authority is, what are the elements of the transport contract, and not least, who are the parties to the contract. They warn that companies do not have the appropriate personnel to control licences. Mr Igor Jakomin reiterated that the introduction of the 30-day payment deadline and the solidarity responsibility for the payment of the fare would improve the situation in motor activities as a weaker article compared to other major business operators. This creates normal conditions for this activity, which will not be based on undue pressure from transport subscribers on carriers, so that they will somehow accept unacceptable and often also unreasonablely long payment periods as the last article in the supply chain. So the law itself simplifies all procedures in addition to payment deadlines. For the control of permits actually brings substantial simplifications, because administrative obstacles are being reduced and, last but not least, leave it to the economy itself to very up-to-date review of permits and not wait for other state authorities. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia also reiterated the current practice of excessive deadlines or even failure to pay the fare, and, on the other hand, the car carrier must actually pay a number of costs even in advance. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 11 for and 2 against: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In explanation of the re-decision requirement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia stated and explained the reasons which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not consider justified. The establishment of a 30-day payment period for the payment of the fare for the transport of goods and passengers establishes normal market conditions protecting carriers. Due to the global economic and financial crisis, the payment deadlines for carriers began to be extended until the end of 2008, from the previous state of payments between 30 and 90 days per payment within 60 and 120 days, or even more, all due to the pressure of subscribers on carriers as weak members in the supply chain. In the transport business, a large majority of the costs are linked to the 30-day payment period, and the extension of the deadline is therefore a non-voluntary lending of other activities. The principle of fairness and equality also under the conditions of a developed market economy is deeply violated and neglected by increasing payment indiscipline and disregarding agreed payment deadlines. In doing so, it should be stressed that transport by majority is for small or medium-sized enterprises facing severe international and domestic competition. The proposal for the legal definition of a 30-day payment period for the payment of the fare for the transport of goods and passengers is based on the actual market situation due to the extension of payment deadlines to carriers, as well as on the provisions of Directive 2000/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 2000 on combating late payment in commercial transactions. That Directive shall apply to all payments as revenue from commercial transactions. The principle of equality before the law of the legislator undertakes to treat the same situations equally, allowing for different regulation of the same positions if there are reasonable and real reasons for such a distinction. The carriers will be entitled by this law to start clearing legal late interest after the 30-day payment deadline. Certain other countries of the European Union also deal specifically with the transport activity. France, Spain and Italy have comparable solutions. The opinion of the Council of State that the law confers the powers of the State authorities on economic operators in the control of licences, which, after a new legislative solution, is even subject to sanctions, does not take into account the actual situation and the proposed amendments. The amendment of the law substantially simplifies the current licensing control provision and significantly reduces administrative barriers. The legal matter reduces administrative burden by 28 % because it abolishes the internal control system and simplifies the authorisation verification process. The verification and validation of licences was adopted in 2010. On the basis of good practice after the implementation of the law, simplifications of procedures are proposed - reducing the number of documents to be verified by entities, simplifying the procedures and the time of storage of documents. The achievement of this provision has a visible impact on the transport activity and does not burden other operators of the economy. The law does not transfer the powers of the State authorities to economic operators, but merely requires them to act as custodians and verify the suitability of the transport operator. In addition, it reduces sanctions substantially for certain offences even 10 times. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the reasons for the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for re-decision on the law are not justified. The law introduces the necessary changes in the field of road transport and makes it possible, in addition to those provisions, to regulate the field of public passenger transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, fellow Members, fellow Members! The request for a re-decision on the adoption of the amendment to the Road Transport Act is justified by the State Council for the following reasons: firstly, the transfer of licences control to the private sector, secondly, the setting of a 30-day payment period for only one economic activity, and thirdly, the imposition of a solidarity responsibility for the payment of the fare. These legal solutions are supposed to be contrary to efforts for the administrative burdens of the Slovenian economy. Economic operators in Slovenia should therefore be subject to significantly different rules than competitive operators operating on the European Union single market. In short, in the opinion of the Council of State, these solutions were not addressed from the perspective of the entire Slovenian economy, nor from the perspective of European comparable solutions and already existing Slovenian legislation. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are not overly excited about these solutions, which we have not even hidden in the previous stages of the legislative process. Once again, we would like to point out that, in principle, we do not mind the conclusion that, in order to mitigate the economic crisis, an institute of a 30-day payment period must be introduced, even if only for one economic activity. We are particularly disturbed by the fact that the chambers to this institute, as well as the solution which, as a solidarity bond for the payment of the fare, introduces the sender or the recipient, are diametrically opposed to the position. We believe that such a path, when certain solutions are opposed to an important part of the economy, is not good or best. We regret that the Chambers have failed to agree on these open issues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that it is not always the best thing to do with the relationship between economic operators which can only be regulated by the economy under civil law. The amendment under consideration is by no means the first to be adopted and adopted in this mandate to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis in the automotive sector. Unfortunately, a number of other economic activities have not received similar attention, which road transport factors often forget. This attention has certainly also contributed to the gradual recovery of this activity, as shown by statistics from the previous month that Slovenian road hauliers brought 8% more goods in 2010 than they did in 2009 and by 8% more ton kilometres and 7% more ton kilometres. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have also said that we welcome every effort aimed at preventing further deterioration of public passenger transport. The second part of the law interferes with the field of public passenger transport and remains at the back of the said dispute on additional measures to mitigate the crisis in road transport. Just as soon as possible to resolve open issues in the road transport sector, especially in public passenger transport, is the reason why we supported the amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and will also be in the decision-making process at the request of the State Council. At the same time, we want to make it clear that in future such partial and completely uncoordinated measures within the LDS economy we no longer intend to support us and that we are saddened by the inability of dialogue and agreement between the Chambers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me say, for the introduction, that when the government first and second came with a bill before us, we were convinced that we must support the law for a very simple reason. The government itself wrote in the papers that the situation in the field of transport was neglected, inadequate and that they needed to be changed. We agree with this; however, whether this basic finding has been duly hung then has been harmonised so that the law is consistent and coherent, and we already have different views on this. So the government came from the belief that the situation was inadequate, it was based on the analysis of the economic situation in the industry, because we all find that it was overinvestment, because we all find that it was a major downturn in activity in the last period, which we should actually expect. We note that there have been major liquidity problems and problems of payment non-discipline, and we have also, of course, followed the analysis that has been said that this sector is not the most endangered, nor is it among the first five, and would be an unusual situation if all sectors were to organise themselves and come up with a proposal for a law, then we probably would not be able to react because they would spill the system. It is also noted that this is one of the sectors most burdened by employment and work in black, which, of course, has major economic consequences. Of course, what we ourselves believe was crucial in the fact that the law was made up of two parts – one of which we support and one to which we have thought – was the pressure that the well-organised industry carried out through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia with the threat of civil disobedience and we estimate that the government here has sheltered from pressure more than before the arguments. Why, though, did we support the law in our previous consideration? Firstly, because we agree with the government that the neglected transport situation needs to be changed. Secondly, because we believe that the reorganisation of public passenger transport, including the direction currently envisaged, is necessary in our judgment. We are most supportive of the integrated passenger transport project. We support independence, independence, the expertise of these services, which the government ensures will be better in the future. And I also support the possibility that, through this law, the protection of consumer interests will be slightly improved and we support all the consequences that could be indirectly linked to this, either energy or environmental impacts, or consumer protection. We have already pointed out that there are at least five elements in this law to which we have concerns and others, including the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as the Legal and Legislative Service of our Parliament. These warnings were largely exaggerated, and what we considered to be a different part of the Law on Road Traffic was also heard. What is at stake for us, too, is payment deadlines, is a solidarity responsibility, the transfer of the need by state authorities to economic operators to check permits, as well as the direct allocation of public powers to only two of all chambers, seemed to us to be somewhat problematic. Well, that's why he followed the veto. On the basis of the concerns raised by the Council of State, the legislative and legal service has reiterated that these changes are not sufficiently justified and the government has responded to this, but we estimate that it has responded by making fewer things clear and that it has further deepened some of our doubts. Therefore, in today's vote, we will vote slightly differently than before and each will vote in his or her own conviction.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, welcome everyone! Let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we will once again support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, and we would like to point out the following arguments for re-support. The fact is that the law does indeed ultimately regulate public passenger transport, which is extremely neglected in Slovenia in comparison with the other Member States of the European Union, as fewer passengers use both bus and public passenger transport. And the solution enshrined in the law also means rationalising public administration in this area, as it brings together several state bodies, both within the Ministry of Transport: the RS Roads Directorate, the RS Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment and the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, i.e. all of these bodies unite into one body - the RS Directorate for Public Passenger Transport, which will make it much easier to establish all the steps necessary for a single ticket and a harmonised timetable for bus and rail public passenger carriers. Administrative barriers to the control of licences are also being reduced, regardless of the fact that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia point out that the country is transferring part of its responsibility to companies. We believe that this, however, significantly reduces all administrative obstacles and that direct contact between service users will be the one who will also improve this control and thereby stabilise the auto-transport activity. So the law itself also reduces payment periods to 30 days. In doing so, we want to respond to the difficult economic conditions that have arisen in the automotive industry also due to the economic crisis, because the fact is that the carriers are somehow the weakest link in this chain and we believe that the consequences of paying for this service by both suppliers and traders, however, cannot be so fatal to the economy or to trade as to have liquidity problems or even difficulties in their business. On the contrary, we estimate that all three partners will also significantly monitor all these procedures due to their solidarity responsibility and also try to settle mutual obligations. It is also a public mandate in this law, both for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and for the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce to issue licences and licences, because, last but not least, we believe that it is a matter of taking good practice into account in the past and that this can in the future mean simplifying procedures and, of course, also the satisfaction of all users due to the transparent and rapid issuance of licences and licences. These are the reasons why we believe that this law in the Group of Social Democrats can be reaffirmed and we want it to live as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we fully agree with the request of the Council of State, because we have also opposed such solutions, which the proposer also points out in this veto, is the Council of State. And that is why, as for the first time in this law, we will now vote against it. We will vote against it because we have already proposed, in our opinion, amendments that would be significantly better and probably not be vetoed at all in the first reading of this law. In fact, our proposal was to transfer licences to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as a state authority and not to do so by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. With this, we created a monopoly with this solution. We know that this public authority would be fair if it were freely available, it is said that there could be other chambers for the granting of the power, because we have at least one more, namely the Automobile Chamber and the argument that so far the Chambers have done this well is not the only convincing. It's a monopoly and it's also a conflict of interest, because if you're a member of the Chamber of Commerce, it's probably easier to get a license than if you're a representative of someone else who doesn't have that authority. As far as payment deadlines are concerned, we are also of the view that this really needs to be addressed comprehensively and, however, the amendment, which would in fact be the most helpful for motorists, and which is also clearly regulated by the European Crisis Assistance and Serious Disorders Directive, which is to give the Minister of Transport the power to assist in the transport of vehicles at that time. Let me quote again on what we have proposed. We have proposed that, during the crisis and serious disruptions, the Minister has the power to take protective measures, I quote, "so that, among other things, these safeguard measures could concern the reduction of tolls and various charges, the reduction of excise duties, the introduction of various tax reliefs, the reduction of various duties on employees in the sector, additional reliefs for businesses which most of the activities are carried out abroad, etc. "But this amendment was not adopted, and the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry considered whether this should be asked in Brussels. This measure would help more than all these payment periods. See, as far as payment deadlines are concerned, you are obviously not the only ones in the economy, and this needs to be fully resolved, although we believe that something needs to be done in the area of payment discipline, but not only in the field of the automotive sector, but in its entirety. It's wrong to say it's an auto-transport law. No, this novelty also regulates the area of public passenger transport, which, of course, has to be regulated in a comprehensive manner, as it was said, with an institution, with harmonised timetables, a single ticket, but like the Minister of Transport's promise, this should have been resolved in a special law on integrated public passenger transport, which it is not, but instead we have now obtained this in the car transport law, which was obviously also adopted after the road's dictatorship, at least so previously we have heard a representative of the State Council, and it has connected some solutions to integrated public passenger transport. The main solution is, of course, that a new institution is being set up in a flood of institutions, which will now deliver a fine solution to integrated public passenger traffic. Not that the content of this area does not need to be regulated, but it just connected itself to make it easier to go through. If it is accepted by car because it has to be, because otherwise the motorists will close the roads, but let's put some public passenger traffic in the box, and we'll pass the law. The Group of Members will vote against it for the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of Members, we will also today support the proposal of the law. We're sorry it's gotten to the veto. For a simple reason, because there are many very good solutions to road transport in the entire law, there is a need for solutions for road transport, and we are therefore sorry that these three things that have led the State Council to vote veto have led us to vote again today. We are convinced that the Ministry has done the right thing to solve the problems and that it has also listened in these difficult situations to the self-transportors who are facing a particularly large payment non-discipline and that the introduction of a 30-day payment deadline will regulate this. We wish, like some others, that this would be arranged for others. The mandatory period or in another law, however, we are convinced that the State Council's argument is too small to be voted on. The same is true of this solidarity responsibility, which we believe is right that the contracting authority is aware of the importance of the carrier and that they are working together to ensure that the transport is actually paid and that we will therefore vote in favour. We also assess that, as proposed by the Ministry in the case of the granting of licences, the regime will reduce bureaucratic barriers and that, given that the applicants themselves are also beneficiaries of these services, they will first find out if this does not work. Therefore, we are aware of the seriousness of these warnings when we are aware of the warnings from the Council of State and some of the chambers and parts of the economy. We also hope that motorists are aware of this and that if these fears prove true they will also respond in a timely and correct manner and resolve any problems. We will re-vote this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, in the debate on the law, we warned and expressed some concerns, requested clarifications on individual solutions and pointed out the lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Even though we have not received adequate explanations, we have supported the law, because we believe that we must act quickly in the economic crisis. That is why we will re- back up the law despite some concerns. They should be held accountable by the proposer. We reiterate that, in Slovenia, there should finally be a greater link between bus and rail transport, which would have many positive consequences and, above all, a single ticket would encourage greater use of public means of transport, as it is unacceptable that there are so few passengers, sometimes just one or two, on longer bus transports. The additional condition for this is, of course, also the price acceptability of such transports. We support the regulation and the establishment of a comprehensive management of the integrated public passenger transport system, which will take place at two levels at the same time. In addition to the introduction of a 30-day payment period, the proposal also entails the necessary allocation of licences for internal traffic licences and international licences and the distribution and use of CEMT licences. The law also defines the granting of public powers and powers to share licences and licences. Members of the Slovenian People's Party welcome the amendment of the law, although it is one of the few measures taken by this government to help one industry more effectively. With regard to the debtor's institution of solidarity, we have also pointed out the fear that there will be doubts about a unilateral approach. Nevertheless, we are convinced that these measures are well-intentioned and will improve the situation of smaller motorists as a weaker article compared to other larger business operators. This law partially implements certain requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, so we have supported the law and we will also support it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will also once again support the amendment of the Road Transport Act. This is one of the laws by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to respond to the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. According to the Minister of Transport's assurances, this legal novelties are intended to contribute to reducing the consequences of the crisis on road transport activities, to regulating road transport relations and to paying discipline. For the Novela sets a 30-day payment period with a solidarity responsibility. Solidarity responsibility is necessary due to the specificity of contracts in activities concluded between the two parties in favour of the third party. The legal novelty also simplifies the Institute for checking and certifying licences in companies and establishes a framework for the powers and tasks of the RS Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. The establishment of a Directorate will ensure a higher degree of professional autonomy, efficiency and quality in the performance and management of the public passenger transport system. To this end, human resources and financial resources will be pooled, which also means a more systematic and rational use of budgetary resources. The government wants to promote one of the least used public transport by setting up a Directorate and introduce an integrated passenger transport system. This project is already under way at the Ministry of Transport and will end with the integration of timetables and the introduction of a single ticket. The fact is that public passenger transport is very topical and requires as early and effective measures as possible at the level of the country, regions and municipalities. Slovenia takes last place after the use of public passenger transport between EU Member States, which clearly shows the neglect of this area at all levels. Eurostat data show that 3,2 % of all passengers traveled by train in Slovenia in 2006 and 3.6% of passengers by bus and 91.3% of all passengers by car. Measures to promote public passenger transport must also be included in the climate change mitigation and adaptation programme. In recent years, Slovenia has overtaken and even overrun many Western European countries in terms of motorisation. In Slovenia, the number of registered cars increased by 37% between 1995 and 2007, which means that in our country the volume of road traffic is increasing significantly and at the same time the interest in the use of public passenger transport is falling sharply. The State is seeking to halt the decline in the number of public passenger users and to increase it in the long term also through an integrated public passenger transport project, which will ensure the introduction of a single ticket and harmonised bus and rail traffic schedules by the end of 2013. To this end, this system will be incorporated into the new manager of the RS Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. As has already been said, in the DeSUS Group we will once again support the proposal for a novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, honourable Members! Act amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act adopted by the National Assembly 24. 5. The National Council rejected the proposed articles of the law, which were also disputed with the Slovenian National Party's Group when it examined and adopted the law in the National Assembly and related to the area of licensing, the allocation of licences and, particularly, to payment deadlines. Of course, in all these proposals, there is reasonable doubt that the law does not offer the carriers the expected improvements, but the car carriers are convinced that the law is good for them and that it saves the unsustainable state of the car carriers. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we believe that irregularities must be corrected as soon as possible, but in a way that will resolve the status of carriers on its own and for a longer term. It is expected that the law will be brought into line with the legislation already in force and already in force, which, in certain segments, already speaks in favour of carriers in a broader sense, but, as we can see, we are also faced with a lack of respect for the implementation of laws, which the Slovenian National Parties consider to be very clear. This is confirmed once again by the fact that Slovenian capitalism works without the necessary legal and moral barriers. It is difficult to say from this law that this is an auto-transport law, as it mentions the establishment of a public passenger transport authority, which has nothing to do with motorists. However, if the motorists see solutions in these proposals, it is only right that the policy listens to them. I agree that the law is also co-decisiond by those directly affected by the law and that the functioning and existence of these entrepreneurs is ensured by law and by law. We are always talking about listening to and talking to craftsmen and entrepreneurs when they are preparing laws, so that they will be prepared and written professionally and above all are based on practice, because only they are meeting in the competition market, which is becoming increasingly severe, unswerving, especially in the European market, and their experience is more than necessary when laws are also being drawn up. I agree with the Automobiles that policy is always wrong, because the views are mainly cabinet-oriented, and this is quite different in the real market. The data that traders have generated 155 million profits in 2010 and that car carriers have produced 25 million losses at the expense of non-compliance with payment discipline is sufficiently relevant to ensure that, despite unfair competition, they survive and generate profits that are likely to be the same if payments are to be made on a regular basis. Of course, all of this refers to consistent respect for the laws already in force. As I have already mentioned, this law is not exactly to convince Members of the Slovenian National Party that it is of quality, but we believe it is well-intentioned. Automobiles believe that this law solves their problems, and that is why we will not oppose the adoption of the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. It's not working? There are 68 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new act on the European Council of Workers, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Before you today is a law that brings into our legal order a revised directive regulating the establishment of European workers' councils or a second regulation of the information and consultation process for workers in major multinationals in the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Community, which was adopted in 2009. In this way, companies and related companies that are established in Member States with at least 1,000 employees and at least 150 workers in at least two Member States may be informed and consulted in those countries on business developments and on all relevant transnational decisions that could, of course, have an impact on employment or working conditions within these European Labour Councils. This Directive, which has been strongly influenced by social partners at European Union level, has recast the old directive in this area, which was in 1994. The basic objective of the revised Directive is to ensure greater effectiveness of the right to information and consultation of workers at transnational level, which is also one of the fundamental rights set out in several other directives and also in the European Social Charter, to increase the share of established European Workers' Councils, currently only one third, but to improve legal certainty [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	and ensure a better link between the Directives on information and consultation of workers, which are regulated in different fields. [[...]] On 6 June 2011, the old Directive was fully replaced by the new Directive and all Member States must transpose the provisions of this recast Directive as soon as possible into their legal order. The draft Law on European Workers' Councils also addressed and fully supported the Economic and Social Council. Therefore, our social partners fully support the law, so if you agree, we would also ask if a third consideration of this law can be carried out after the second reading today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Nice greeting, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a Law on European Councils of Workers, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law with the State Secretary, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the representative of the Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia - Independence, the Confederation of Trade Unions of 90 Slovenia and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. On the basis of its opinion, amendments from SD, Reale, DeSUS and LDS were tabled and also adopted. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the bill, was briefly presented by a representative of the Council of State. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the law. Without discussion, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled and voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted it. The text of the draft law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. The Group of Non-Aligned Members, I suppose, as well as all the other groups of Members, will support the proposal. The essence of this proposal is to increase the possibilities of information and under the terms, the impact of employees on decision-making in multinationals and probably there is no one who specifically wants to oppose it. In fact, we are following the directive, as has been said, we are hunting the tail's deadline, what day we will miss it, but there will be no tragedy. Otherwise, we believe that the data that speaks of European Councils of Workers suggests that we support and implement such a law as much as possible in our own country. The European map is full of white foxes as far as the European workers' councils are concerned. As far as Slovenia is concerned, it is a completely empty sheet on which nothing has yet been entered. As far as other European countries associated with the European Union are concerned, they have also made modest use of this opportunity provided by the Directive and it is interesting or perhaps even necessary to point out that the European Councils of Workers are the most widely present in the most developed countries. This probably shows the link between co-decision, under the terms, and the development of business and other cultures in individual countries and corporations. This is because it can be enforced at the free will of workers, they choose this option themselves, and it is that they have this possibility in those companies which are multinationals and in which there are a total of 150 employees from each country. As regards sectors, it is interesting that the most European labour councils are set up in the areas of Kevin, Chemical, Construction, Hotel and Tourism and Agriculture. The sectors themselves, which are also highly developed in Europe, and which to a large extent mean industries that are labour-intensive. For this reason, too, this may be a particular emphasis. However, it is clear from the data that there is no strong commitment to the establishment of European workers' councils, except when they receive an employee impulse, which happened more than a decade ago with the directive then, and it is likely to be something similar under this directive, which was last amended. Our proposal for a law can also contribute to this, but with or to the size of Slovenia and with or to the size of our societies, we cannot add anything important to this. It is therefore more or less a campaign to set up European workers' councils, which, however, later retain their activity and thus the number of European workers' councils is increasing in trend. What are the competences of these European Councils? In fact, the powers are modest, so at least in our Group of Members we understand that. The point is that employees should be duly informed. It's about having, I would say, the free right to set up such saints. It is also the case that those who are employed in or who are in these bodies have certain rights in relation to information and meeting management. It's mandatory once a year. Otherwise, we believe that representatives in the European Councils of Workers have not taken this as some very important and autonomous right that we would like to take advantage of, otherwise the situation would probably be different. Still, it's a positive move. However, information is being increased to allow workers to give their views on the most important decisions, and this also creates some control over these decisions. We also support all three components in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Marian Križman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Nice hello to you all! The participation of workers in management has an important place both in Slovenia and in the wider European space and a long tradition. One of the newer instruments for co-management of workers is also the European Councils of Workers, which have begun to establish themselves by strengthening the common internal market and as a result of the growing involvement of the European economy in the processes of globalisation. The functioning of the internal market in connection with globalisation puts European companies in a new situation. Businesses are increasing beyond the borders of one country or have a markedly supranational character, and new forms of employee participation in companies are also developing. The European Councils of Workers are therefore not abstract entities, but they are bodies of workers operating across national borders and caring for information and consultation of workers employed in international companies. Council Directive 94/45/EC of 22 September 1994 establishing European Works Councils laid the foundation for the implementation of labour participation in enterprises and groups of undertakings operating within the European Union in 1994. This Directive was amended in 2009 with a view to improving legal certainty and ensuring a better link between directives on information and consultation of workers and increasing the share of established European workers' councils. The 2009 data of the European Commission show that less European workers' councils have been established in the Member States than they could have been. Thus, only 36% of the companies covered by the scope of the Directive are set up by the European Councils of Workers. The most active European labour councils are in companies that are the administrative centres of multinationals in Germany, Great Britain and France. Currently, there is not yet a European Council of Workers in a multinational society in Slovenia, which would have the main management in our country and which would fully apply the provisions of our Law on European Councils of Workers. This undoubtedly reflects the current structure of the Slovenian economy, where there are not many multinationals. The main purpose of the new Law on European Workers' Councils is to transpose into the Slovenian legal order a revised directive regulating the establishment of European workers' councils and regulating the procedure for informing and consulting workers in larger multinationals in the EU Member States and the European Economic Area. In doing so, it should be stressed that both the Directive and the European Workers' Council Act provide for a system of information and consultation based on the principle of volunteering. Informing and consulting workers is the right of workers, but it is not their duty. In practice, this means that the management of the company must start a procedure for the establishment of the system only if the workers so require. We estimate that in Slovenia we have an appropriate system for the participation of workers in management. We also believe that by implementing the new Law on European Workers' Councils, we will achieve greater efficiency in the exercise of the rights of workers of national information and consultation, as the conditions for the establishment of a European Labour Council in multinationals with the main management in our country will be legally facilitated. Social Democrats will be supported by the Second reading Proposal for a Law on European Councils of Workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Dear Mr. President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on European Councils of Workers because we are convinced that the proposed law solves an issue that is important and must be addressed in the manner defined by this bill. In fact, the European Council of Workers is a body representing European workers in larger companies and associated companies established in the Member States of the European Union or in the European Economic Area. It provides information, consultation between employees and management authorities on business and, of course, on important decisions that could affect employment and working conditions at transnational level. This law transposes Directive 2009/38EC of 6 May 2009 establishing a European Labour Council into the Slovenian legal order. It is important to point out that the directive we are talking about renews the old directive in this area in 1994 in order to ensure greater effectiveness of the rights to information and consultation of workers at transnational level, creates conditions for the establishment of several European workers' councils, improves legal certainty and the relationship between information and consultation directives. The proposal also specifies more precisely the requirement for data collection and transmission, which is the duty, in addition to the main management, of the management of all companies, to provide information to all interested parties in the negotiations. The bill also provides better solutions in the field of working methods and the composition of the special negotiating body and the European Workers' Council, while at the same time meeting the requirements of the Directive to complement legislation in order to ensure a balanced representation of workers in the European Workers' Council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that the proposed law improves the legal security and effectiveness of employees and increases the possibility of workers participating in business decisions. We are convinced that there is still much to be done in the area of the legal security of employees if we are to avoid what has happened in this mandate, and there is still a need for workers in our country. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the bill before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party welcome the fact that the Government has this time respected the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and proposed a new law instead of numerous additions and amendments. We will support the law as it improves workers' rights to information and consultation in larger companies and related companies operating in the European Union and the European Economic Area, based on the voluntary decision of workers. The main management must therefore begin the procedure for establishing the system only if workers so require. In accordance with the revised Directive, the law will allow workers to give opinions on the proposed solutions within a reasonable period of time after consulting their representative without prejudice to the powers of management. To this end, the proposed law provides for two ways: firstly, it provides for an agreement on the establishment of a European Council of Workers composed of representatives of workers or arrangements for a different procedure for informing and consulting workers in European Union companies operating in at least two Member States. In addition, it provides training for workers' representatives. In the Committee's consideration, amendments were adopted to remedy the shortcomings in the text of the law. The law, as is known, has also supported the Economic and Social Council, so it seems to be one of the few laws where social dialogue has been successful and it is therefore right to support it. We will therefore support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state and representative of the Ministry! The proposal for this Act introduces a revised European directive in 2009 governing the establishment of a European Council of Workers or the introduction of a procedure for informing and consulting workers in companies or related companies in the Community. The revision of the Directive was designed to ensure greater effectiveness of the right to information and consultation of workers in companies at transnational level, to increase the share of established European workers' councils, to improve legal certainty in the establishment and functioning of European workers' councils and to ensure a better link between information and consultation directives. In our parliamentary group, we support the new law, which follows the changes in the European legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	Nice greeting, Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Proposal for a Law on European Councils of Workers transposes another of the many directives of the European Community into the legal order of Slovenia. Unlike the large number of Directives already implemented in the Slovenian legal system, the Directive in question is understandable and tangible. The aim of the directive is to ensure greater effectiveness of the right to information and consultation of workers at national level, to increase the shares of established European workers' councils and to improve legal certainty and to ensure a better link between information and consultation directives. The proposed Law on European Councils of Workers aims to achieve greater clarity, understanding and transparency in the field of the functioning of the European Councils of Workers, improving the rights of workers to be informed and consulted in larger companies and related companies operating within the European Union and the European Economic Area. Two important provisions of this proposal would be highlighted in the Slovenian National Party. Firstly, the provision on informing the competent European organisations of workers and employers of members of individual negotiating bodies and on the start of negotiations in the composition and functioning of a special negotiating body. The special negotiating body shall also have the right to meet before and after negotiations without the presence of representatives of the principal management and to have the means of communication provided for that purpose. Experts who may be asked for assistance in their work shall also explicitly mention the representatives of trade unions at Member State level, which is of paramount importance in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Thus, the procedure for setting up, exercising and operating a special negotiating body and management during the negotiation of the way workers are informed and consulted, thus all contributing to the effectiveness of the procedure and also to legal clarity and security. And a second time. The provision concerning an agreement between the Chief Executive Board and the Special Negotiating Body, where it is explicitly required that national legislation also complement its rules to ensure a balanced representation of workers in European Councils of Workers, by activities, categories of workers and by sex, and by the requirements for additional arrangements for the integration of European Councils of Workers with national representative bodies. In view of the above and the fact that the drafter has treated the area quite precisely and comprehensively, we will support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues and everyone else present in the National Assembly, welcome. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a Law on European Council Workers, which transposes the Directive adopted in 2009, which completely revises this area. The main purpose of the Directive is to ensure greater effectiveness of the right to information and consultation of workers at transnational level and to improve legal certainty and to ensure coherence between existing directives in the field of information and consultation with workers. The revised Directive has an unaltered structure and continues to favour accepted and agreed solutions at company level. The proposed law, in accordance with the revised Directive, regulates and improves the rights of workers to inform and consult management about business developments and any relevant decisions at transnational level that could affect employment or working conditions in larger companies and related companies operating in the European Union or the European Economic Area, at least in two Member States. To this end, the proposed law, as set out in the requirements of the Directive, provides for two means of regulating the information and consultation of workers, namely, to first regulate the agreement on the establishment of a European Council of Workers composed of representatives of workers, or the arrangements for a different procedure for informing and consulting workers in companies in the European Union area operating in at least two Member States. If such an agreement cannot be reached, under the conditions specified in the directive, the European Council of Workers shall be established in accordance with the provisions of the law summarizing the requirements of the Annex to the Directive. The revised Directive also provides for a system of information and consultation based on the principle of volunteering. Informing and consulting workers is the right of workers, not their duty. The main management must start a procedure for the establishment of the system only if the workers so require. Since the law will also be editorially and nomotechnically improved, in order to achieve greater clarity, understanding and transparency of the rule of law and to make important progress in the area of the preservation of labour rights, we will support it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law supplementing the Public Roads Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished presidents, representatives of the government! We have tabled a proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Roads for a single purpose, namely the existing system of toll collection on toll roads, which is mainly on Slovenian motorways, has been for easier vehicles since 2008, i.e. passenger vehicles for single-way vehicles and vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,5 tonnes, regulated by wine. I think that since then we can also monitor the positive effects of the introduction of this so-called vignette system, since it only allows to pay tolls and does not require to stop vehicles at toll stations, this significantly increases the flow of toll roads and also reduces and removes congestion on toll roads in particular in traffic corners, many of us are driving like other citizens on these toll roads and, in particular, when traffic jams are on Friday afternoon or Monday morning, in fact throughout the tourist season, we can observe despite the positive effect of the introduction of roadblocks at toll stations. Furthermore, vinjets make it possible to reduce environmental pollution, in particular air and land along the highway, as there is no stopping and then accelerating or moving vehicles at a slow pace. And the payment of tolls with wine allows easier transition to to tolls in the free traffic flow, which is also a vision in Slovenia. Of course, the introduction of vignettes did not end this story, as we still have toll stations. Travelling stations are needed in a certain part because tolls of trucks are still in a classical way and therefore, until this matter is settled, parts of toll stations must be maintained, but parts of toll stations intended solely for the passage of passenger vehicles or those using winjets are completely redundant. Each of you can be sure when driving through these toll stations for 40 kilometers an hour, that there is no construction activity and no problem of removing those parts of toll stations that are intended for passenger vehicles or engines or lighter vehicles for up to 3.5 tons. In fact, there are some unexplained reasons why these parts of the toll stations are still and still interfere with traffic. Therefore, the Group of Members proposes a simple solution to the fact that it is the operator of toll roads, Dars, which is due within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, to remove parts of toll stations intended for tollers with vignettes, so that their unhindered traffic is enabled. In these parts of the road, it is certainly possible to lift the speed from the current limited 40 kilometers per hour to 80 miles per hour or even more, despite the fact that that part of the toll station remains, that is, for freight vehicles. I think that we are all also witnessing that these toll stations are now being used for points where police are cashing in particular to foreigners, to tourists who are overspeeding, because they are relatively radically reducing their speed to toll stations, and not least these toll stations are still causing a lot of confusion among those users of motorways who are first on them, because despite the vignettes they arrive at the toll station and do not really know how to do it, so we are proposing this solution, which should already be done. There have been three years since the introduction of vignettes, and we do not have to remove toll stations today, so we also ask the other parliamentary groups to support these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Your Honor! The fundamental question raised when considering the text of Article 1 of the Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Public Roads is whether it is at all a matter governed at the level of a legal act whose primary purpose is legal standardisation of relations in society. In the case at hand, it is an attempt to regulate the technical procedure which imposes a deadline on the road operator to remove parts of toll stations intended to implement the vignette toll system in order to enable the unhindered traffic of vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3500 kilograms. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the operator of toll roads has already taken care of the unhindered traffic of passenger vehicles on toll roads by introducing vignettes, since the closures were removed on the vignette routes of toll stations, while at the same time limiting the maximum permitted speed in the toll area to 40 kilometres per hour, in accordance with the rules on public roads under which the road operator is responsible for safe and smooth traffic and in particular in order to ensure the safety of road users. If we adopted the legal standard as envisaged in the proposed law, this would mean that in all areas where the legislator decides to regulate certain relations or situations, technical solutions should also be laid down to achieve this objective. As a rule, the legislator does not resort to technical matters of a technical nature but merely prescribes the obligations and rights of all those which are covered by the law as a legal act. The fact is that, in accordance with the Law on Public Roads, the operator has already taken care of the unhindered traffic of passenger vehicles on toll roads at the time of the introduction of the vignettes, and therefore the provision of Article 1 of the law is particularly unnecessary or is of a purely technical nature in order to achieve the objective set in the field of the vignette tolling system. In view of the fact that the road operator is responsible for the safe and smooth traffic of roads operated, we believe that the issue of the removal of toll stations is a matter of the decision of the toll manager not of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads. We estimate that while it is a good attempt to be very friendly again to the users of the motorway and remove all leading toll stations within half a year. If we just imagine what this would mean in this year's tourist season, if we adopt this law and start removing all the main toll stations on highways within six years, there would certainly be a traffic eclipse on the highway. Indeed, the construction sites would open up on all sections and would result in extremely large economic damage, discomfort for users of motorways both domestic and foreign. Add to this the fact that in 2008 the vignette system was completely unreasonably introduced without any professional basis. The basis for the introduction of the vinite system was a public opinion poll whether people want blame or not, and of course people replied mostly, yes, we want blame, which actually means reducing congestion at toll stations and increased flow and significantly more friendly use of motorways. And finally, for all those users coming down the highways, this meant a significant appreciation for the use of motorways. Those who use motorways daily could save more than EUR 1000 per year on tolls. So that this reckless reason without professional grounds is actually written in this law as a bad conscience for proposing, because they obviously feel responsible for adopting the vignette system without adequate professional grounds and want to point out this today. If the matter were so simple, we are wondering in the Group of Social Democrats why the toll stations were not removed immediately when the vineyards were introduced. We would also like to receive this answer during today's debate, because we all know that the then Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janša, has also requested the removal of toll stations, but this has not happened. Of course, it did not come for an easy reason because technically this is not feasible. In addition to having a rolling stock system for passenger cars and vehicles weighing 3,5 tonnes, of course, there is still a toll system for freight vehicles, which must stop at these toll stations and make toll payments. So the removal of toll stations is not entirely possible, because freight traffic needs these toll stations if we are to collect tolls from it. Another aspect of why it is not possible to remove toll stations in such a short time is the safety of toll stations employees, since we can imagine how someone from the left lane will get to the right lane at a speed of 130 kilometers per hour. I think it would be a really unrealistic solution, and I hope to say, also an irresponsible solution, to expose the lives of employees at toll stations when they have to do some duty either on the left or on the right side of the road, because it is not possible to cross the road. I think we all imagine that the pedestrian crossing on the highway is the right solution for me and that it is therefore necessary to build a special overpass to enable employees to cross the highway. So this is an extremely expensive intervention, which speaks of the fact that, in our view, the applicants did not think very seriously that this problem with toll stations should be resolved within six months. However, it is true that the highway operator is actually preparing documentation for the removal of toll stations, but let us be honest and responsible to ourselves, this can happen at the moment when an electronic toll system is introduced and a toll system will be introduced in the free traffic of both freight vehicles and passenger cars. In fact, it is possible to remove toll stations at that time, but before that it is not possible to do so. And if we estimate that the deadline for the introduction of an electronic toll system is somewhere in 2012, this is one of those periods where the removal of these toll stations will have to begin. However, it should be noted that the transition to an electronic tolling system with a winch will be extremely demanding. And if we talk today about having referendums on all possible issues, I am sure that we can also follow the law that will put an end to the vignette system, we will have a referendum and I think people will be against it, because it is the cheapest and most comfortable toll system for them. It's significantly more expensive for all those who use highways when they start paying after a mile. And we wonder if we can ever, under any normal circumstances, come to the conclusion that we will be able to adopt a law in the National Assembly that will be the basis for a change in the toll system. However, if we are already looking at how we regulate the system of motorways in Slovenia, we need to know that we have a resolution on the national programme in which these measures are defined and that the annual construction and maintenance programmes also define the exact dynamics of what will be done in each year. The proposal of the Law on Public Roads itself, which we are considering today, is unusual because it proposes technical solutions to the operator, and these technical solutions are more a matter of annual investment and maintenance programmes than of legal matter. In such a way that, despite the express desire of the Social Democrats to remove these toll stations as soon as possible, we are aware that this is in practice an extremely demanding process, sometimes because of the above-mentioned relationships, if not sufficiently thought out, even fatally dangerous and therefore we want to prepare all the relevant professional grounds for actually carrying out such difficult measures as the removal of toll stations on the motorway network. In particular, security is the one that is extremely important in transport policy and is certainly motorways and also the vignette system greatly helped to ensure that more users are on motorways and thus reduced the number of accidents on other state roads, but by reckless move into this system we can again cause a catastrophic situation, and I stress, above all, that if we remove all toll stations within half a year, then on the Slovenian highway network we will cause eclipses, road eclipses and, in fact, great economic damage to both the highway operator and the economy as a whole in the Republic of Slovenia. Not to mention Slovenia's extremely limited reputation in this tourist season due to the almost complete closure of the fifth and tenth European corridor, which is taking place, as we know, to a large extent also through Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support the law. I supported this because it is high time that after the blames have proved to be extremely effective, I will now also say a transport policy instrument with which everything that had previously been achieved in the history of Slovenian tolling could not be achieved. And that's practically an unobstructed traffic flow along the highways. You can look at the data of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, which brought blames as the first positive measure. The fact that traffic, which is earlier due to high tolls, and also because of the long columns right in the tourist seasons, reminds you of 7 and more kilometres at the last toll station near Kozina, and especially tourists who were not waiting only for that toll station, were still waiting on Brezovica and so on. So all the positive effects that highways have actually brought back to those they need: users, motorists, drivers and unloaded side roads, parallel roads, state roads that have become strong, strongly relaxed. It is precisely because of this measure that a lot of traffic is no longer necessary. The highway is, of course, much safer than the other roads passing through the settlements. It is also true that if we look at the history of tolling, Slovenian motorways have begun to build as toll roads. So the primary purpose was to build toll roads in closed traffic, it is said that all revenues, all access to motorways are closed, tolls. So it's practically true that as many miles as you're transporting, of course, you're paying, but you're standing in front of a toll station, paying, and then driving on. The conclusion, which then led to that half-closed toll system when a decision was reached on the Stacier highway that all the connections would not be tolls and that the main toll stations would be built, even then, that was a while ago, on the Committee on Environment and Infrastructure when it was decided that the traffic flow and motorways should be released. At that time, the decision of such a mixed system was made. Since then, it has become logical to think that such a tolling method is not true. An attempt was also made with ABC electronic tolling, which was in Slovenia at that time. At the same time, however, it is intended that traffic be released on the highway, so that users can drive freely, and that was not the case. Although the solution was simple and was valid in our neighbouring country of Austria: vinjete. That is why I think that one of the better decisions was, in fact, the best decision that is now very good in practice. Guilts that have completely released the traffic flow. If you remember what the motorists were like, because they threatened to strike on the Styrian highway because they were convoys of trucks in Vransk and continue to fight at the Slovenian Horsemen and waited there. For what? Since ABC was on the extreme right-hand lane for passenger cars, trucks drove on the left. Remember history. Perhaps it would be good if television ever showed us those tips from a few years ago that we experienced when we were driving to sea. We all remember this together, us waiting in the columns, and the tourists who paid the euro and then looking at the country they came to because they had a toll station and a column about ten kilometers away. This proposal today is simply to remove the last obstacle that hinders the vines from being fully revived, so that toll stations are removed. This proposal, which has already been tabled several times, has always been rejected as an extremely difficult matter, that it is extremely difficult to do so, to undermine. Man has a feeling that this tolling, these houses, is going to look almost like building a black-and-black viaduct. Sorry, this is a number of toll facilities that are actually defined by our legislation as simple objects. This is a simple object and does not hold that the demolition of these toll stations, because we see what they are, causes I do not know what problems for constructionists who are capable of building many things today, but I think they are able to solve this last obstacle, which is now as it is - inappropriate. Inadequate and seriously hampering free traffic flows and also hampering transport safety, it is hampered by inadequate traffic signalling. If we remove these toll stations, we can make drivers unobstructed on highways without any problems. And that guilt as such remains to a full extent exploited. We also think that this six-month deadline is right. This is not scientific fiction, these are toll stations that can be removed very quickly, and remain those toll stations as much as it takes for freight vehicles that are on the far right edge of the motorway and do not interfere with anything, but of course the government could have long ago adopted a toll system for freight vehicles, and then this need for these houses that they now need, after these cabins, I will say that they need trucks, also have been removed, and then we would have what the neighbouring Austria has, the wine system and the tolling of freight vehicles on the electronic system. And I don't want to, because this is not the subject of this law, guilt is what is needed at this point, even for the free flow of traffic, for the sake of our environment, for the less crowded on the highways, for the friendly highways, is what is said to be the roads that are user-friendly, and therefore we think that this proposal is more than necessary and useful. The deadline of 6 months means that next year we can drive without stopping at unnecessary toll cabins. But if we hurry up a little bit, I'm sure we could also have a satellite toll system for trucks at that time, and then we could just put it in a set. And yes, once again, we also adopt laws so that we are friendly to the users, to the drivers and drivers, and not just to find out how something can't be done. Excuse me, anyone who drives past the toll station sees that this is not a very demanding object, that it is a cabin and some concrete that needs to be removed and arranged, so this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members is supported and we suggest that you do this to the benefit of the road safety and friendly motorways in our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members, although we are deeply in agreement with the very purpose. Basically, such a proposal and its implementation would mean increased flow, reduce congestion, reduce negative impacts on the environment and ecology, but the proposal is assessed as not feasible at this time. Very much on ad hoc would solve a matter that is quite old, and it would probably be wise to think about a comprehensive solution at the time of the introduction of vignettes. Therefore, I can also agree with the predecessor in a certain part that blames are extremely effective for the movement of traffic. However, what is forgotten about vineyards is that they are extremely unsocial and that those who use highways a lot certainly do not pay as much as they should and that those who use highways once or twice a year are worse off because of this system. Therefore, it was possible to miss the opportunity when the vines were introduced to get rid of the technical tolls of trucks and to ensure that safety is assured in the first place, so that a quick decision on the demolition of these houses or of these stations intended for personal transport would certainly represent a difficult and particularly costly solution, how to arrange access to the part still intended for freight traffic and that in the near future the direction and solution in satellite tolling is likely to be that everyone would pay as much as it actually does for miles. That is why, in today's debate, this proposal is so good, but not feasible in such a form, and I also think that it was not an appropriate explanation by the Secretary of State that this is just a matter of the operator, it is indeed a matter of the manager to ensure smooth progress, but the ministry could also use this proposal to present a time-consuming vision of a transition from an existing system that is not good to one that we all believe will be the best. So it is likely that, in terms of security and technical feasibility of this proposal, we will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Your Honor! According to information from the professional circles, it is unprofessional and disproportionately too expensive only to partially tear down the toll stations. Moreover, estimates are that it costs almost as much to break down as to set up these stations, and I personally do not believe in these assessments. This is a completely technical and professional construction issue, and so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party also raise the issue of the legal determination of such specific professional issues. While the applicants state that the law will not burden the budget so that the funds for subjugation will be provided to Dars, I doubt. It sounds very simple, but it doesn't. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have always advocated that, in addition to highways and major regional connections in our country, connecting roads should finally be regulated and state roads maintained more regularly, so that they are safe and safe. Most people in Slovenia live in rural areas, most people depend on road conditions for transport to work, schools, doctors and other activities. Therefore, it seems more necessary for all stages of motorways to be completed as soon as possible, for example, Ptuj - the Croatian border, and in particular to finally regulate all anti-group fences and emergency connecting and intervention road links, it is also unacceptable that this law should make it impossible for us to borrow credits or transfer additional funds from the budget. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party would like to hear an actual financial assessment of performance and also an expert opinion on the feasibility of partial undermine of road stations before deciding on the proposed solution in order to determine how to implement fully technical and technical solutions by law. During the weighing of what is more urgent, or the collapse of road stations due to the reduction of speed on motorways or on the other hand the maintenance of state roads and the regulation of connecting roads, we believe that it is certainly more necessary to allocate funds to complete roads and to regulate anti-group fences, as some sections, such as those against Postojna on Uncu, have been waiting for them for over 35 years. This raises the question of the available resources of Dars, if they have them, we support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, although we fully agree with the proposaler that existing toll stations are disrupting and hindering the free movement of traffic. However, the applicant forgets that in most cases the restructuring or removal of existing toll stations is only possible once a new toll system is in place, only then can the dynamics and scale of the toll stations and the associated toll arrangements be meaningfully adapted. The fact is that the removal and regulation of toll stations requires the production of appropriate project, technical documentation, the execution of procurement procedures for the award of works. In addition to the removal of cabins, pillars and roofs, the construction of drainage and the reconstruction of roads in the area of existing toll stations, which would establish a normal cross-sectional profile of the motorway and ensure safe driving at higher speeds, we do not agree with the Government's view that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry, but of Dars himself, as has already been said, we will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Public Roads Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, an objective addition to the law is necessary, but not in the form proposed. It should be noted that tolls still take place at toll stations of vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3 tonnes and that the latter are systematically regulated by electronic tolling, whose passage period is already legally established. In particular, it would be financially unacceptable for parts of the removal of toll stations to be carried out only partially, as this would result in the unjustified use of public funds, not to mention the double implementation of public design calls. To manage toll stations, Dars is legally competent, but we cannot ignore the fact that he should conduct business in accordance with the requirements of public interest in the field of motorway transport and road safety. The policy of building and maintaining highways is certainly governed by the government or the Ministry of Transport. Consequently, it is not possible to attach to the Government's view that it would exceed its powers by supplementing the Law on Public Roads. As far as the safety of the crossing at toll stations is concerned, driving restrictions are already prescribed at 40 kilometers an hour, but they could not only mock this fact. It is funny that a driver, for example a stranger who buys a vignette for a ride in Slovenia, thinks that this ride will be comfortable, then literally stops every 100 kilometers when the toll stations pass. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose that the article should read otherwise: "The operator of toll stations is obliged to remove all toll stations on Slovenian roads within 6 months of the introduction of electronic tolling for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds three and a half tonnes." In the Slovenian National Party, we are of the opinion that in such a form, the addition of the law would only help to warn Dars that, at the time we move on to electronic tolling, he will make sure that project documentation and permits are actually and finally able to take place when we move on to digital tolling. According to experience, Darsa’s leadership prefers to deal with other more important matters. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposal to supplement the law in such a form.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, representatives of the government, fellow Members, fellow Members! Applicants, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, want to remove all excess parts of 28 toll stations on toll roads in Slovenia within six months of the law. In doing so, they are aware of the necessity of maintaining those parts of toll stations necessary for tolling freight vehicles. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that there are at least two important reasons against such partial removal of toll stations. The first reason the government also points out in its opinion is of a legal nature. The proposed legal solution cannot be a matter regulated at the level of law as a legal act whose main purpose is to improve the legal normalisation of relations in our society. This is an attempt to regulate the technical procedure which imposes a deadline on the operator of the toll stations to remove parts of the toll stations. The introduction of the vinite tolling system has achieved all the objectives leading to the introduction of vignettes by the previous government, the increase in traffic flow, the reduction of greenhouse gas missions, the reduction of congestions, etc. The fact is that Dars, as an operator in accordance with the Public Road Act, has already taken care of the unhindered traffic of passenger vehicles by removing the prisons and most of the toll cabins on the vignette routes of toll stations when introducing vignettes. In order to ensure the safety of road users, however, it limited the permitted speed in the toll station area to 40 kilometres per hour. The removal of toll stations is a highly technical issue, which is conditioned by the existence of two different methods of tolling, as tolling of freight vehicles is still mostly carried out by stopping at toll stations. As a legislator, however, the National Assembly does not generally resort to a more detailed solution to technical issues of a technical nature, for which it is not even qualified, but merely prescribes the obligations and rights of persons subject to the law as a legal act. Another reason which speaks against the proposed removal of toll stations is the transport, technical, construction and safety nature. Indeed, Dars has not removed toll stations yet, but it should be pointed out that most toll stations are structurally such that they cannot be partially broken, this is only in the central part where the tolling system takes place. It is a concrete facility with adequate foundations and underground electrical and communication water. In particular, these waters prevent partial demolition only in the central part of the toll stations. In addition, each toll station is actually designed as a separate unit, there are no typical stations, which of course requires the development of a specific project for each toll station separately. And so we could impose several more reasons, including traffic and safety, which speak in favour of the removal of toll stations only as part of the integrated introduction of tolling in the free traffic flow for all vehicles, as they will then lose any function. If we legally prescribe partial demolition of toll stations now, and in doing so, we take away the technical and construction reasons that speak against it, extensive construction works will be carried out under transport. Tolling of cargo vehicles should be ensured, while ensuring safe traffic of passenger vehicles, which would be a difficult road safety project. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for these reasons, we oppose the statutory immediate removal of parts of the toll stations, because in our opinion it is a non-professional and politically motivated intervention in the express technical material. In the LDS, we are convinced that questions regarding the removal of toll stations must be answered by a competent profession, particularly Dars as a road operator without a policy dictatorship. Otherwise, the problem of the removal of toll stations is the result of not too careful but a desirable introduction of the vignette regime for passenger vehicles. In addition to some of the positive effects already mentioned, this has mainly a negative impact on the long-term financial sustainability of the Slovenian highway programme and on Dars as the manager. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not want the trend of making incompetent decisions to continue there, so in our opinion this proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Mr. Vice President! Road stations have been a thorn in the heel of all those who meet or meet with them all the time, and thinking about how to get rid of them is nothing special for the hair attracted. It is normal to think about this, and perhaps even to think about this proposal for a law that our Group of Members will not support, however, should also be considered in terms of some incentive and a solution to some problem that has arisen, which we are all aware of and which no one is solving right now. That is why we need to think about this in our judgment. Because this bill also points out that we do not have the right quality, that we do not have the right system to regulate our traffic, as we have seen in the consideration of the proposal for the Road Transport Act. Solutions to problems can either be purely systemic in nature, which, of course, we have to deal with in the National Assembly, can be operational, technical, which can be managed by operators themselves on the basis of regulation. However, they can also be those linked to the operational, the technical, and the systemic solutions. We estimate that this problem of toll stations is linked to both; to technical solutions that have been discussed, as well as to systemic solutions, because we see that due to some systemic dilemmas and because we have two ways of tolling, some technical solutions cannot be implemented, but, of course, once the systemic solutions that have been envisaged have been implemented, this could be significantly easier than now. If we asked ourselves who would support such a bill as it was tabled, no one who drove the car would have objected at first sight. But, of course, it is also necessary to ask about the circumstances in which this is required, after the deadlines in which this is required, after all, even after the economy. Users are paying attention or paying attention to safety, to the culture of driving, we pay attention to the regulation we establish on the roads and to the transport policy, which is always composed of at least two parts, from preventing accidents or from preventing road risks and, of course, from sanctioning and punishing. It is evident that these toll stations are also very disconcerting in this sense, as traffic recommendations or instructions are almost impossible to take into account in the current form and, if taken into account, this is almost more dangerous than it is not. Such empirical everyday problems also point out that these solutions need to be considered and found if this solution does not have adequate support in the National Assembly, some others who will definitely have to go in the same direction. Of course, we also asked ourselves whether the government's rejection or "non-support" of the proposed law was appropriate or not. As regards the dual method of tolling, which is referred to as one of the arguments "against the support" of this bill, it is certain that this cannot be resolved in a short time. As regards the second argument, which speaks of the fact that, technically, at most toll stations, it is not possible to remove only parts of toll stations and that this would cause as much costs as problems and also risks to employees, we can also attract government arguments. As regards the fact that removal is not a problem for the government and not for the National Assembly, but for the administrator, we ask ourselves whether it is an appropriate argument or, in fact, just an excuse. Since this is a problem that needs to be addressed both systematically and at technical level, it is likely that the operator must be 100 % owned by the State and the State to head off and find solutions. And these solutions, even in the shortest time possible, are reasonable to realize. It is now time for us to think about technical solutions, to think about the economy of this solution, to think about security, which is accompanying the process of solving the problem itself, as well as to think about what is the real time frame for implementing these desired ambitions. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are convinced that this deadline should not go too far, that it must not go too far and that it requires the proper engagement of both Darsa and the manager, as well as the Government on behalf of the owner representative. On the other hand, let me once again say that we believe that the removal of toll stations as is now envisaged is problematic for us, so we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Andrej Vizjak spoke as a motioner. Get ready for Franz Jurša, Victory Jelinčič or Ivan Grill. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President. As a representative of the applicants, it grieves me, in fact, that even in the first reading, when we decide whether or not to upgrade the law, we may be able to amend it in the direction of achieving the objective. This goal, as I see, is welcomed on most sides, i.e. removal of toll stations because they do not necessarily interfere with the traffic of those who pay for tolls with vignettes. I would expect at least so much correctness that later, when it turns out that certain solutions are not technically feasible or that they are too quick, they would reject such a thing, but not in principle at the start, using really funny excuses. One of these was heard in the sense that if this law had been passed, there would have been open construction sites on all highways and this would have been questioned this year's tourist season or any future. If this law can be adopted in accordance with the fastest procedure, it may be adopted in the middle of July or at a future meeting. For today we have the first reading, the second reading cannot theoretically be carried out at this meeting, so this would be in the middle of July. The law was adopted at the end of July for a project to be carried out, and the construction or construction of the project was not open until October, November. This is as technical as possible. The contractor must also be selected before this. Or even later in wintertime. So it is not true that any way this law would affect traffic or congestion or construction in this year’s tourist season, stupidity, respectable. This is simply an attractive reason for the hair, for which, in principle, it is opposed to a good solution because it was proposed by the opposition. See, already the previous government, when it decided to introduce vignettes for passenger cars, single-way vehicles and those lighter than three and a half tonnes, intended to tear down toll stations, so the selection process of the contractor was already initiated, which then failed to reach the epilogue or did not experience the continuation of the procedure because the mandate had expired. We expected the new government to continue or seek a solution. It's been three years. There's no solution. The customs stations are staying. And all of us with personal vehicles or engines driving on individual sections of Slovenian motorways, stop at least twice or reduce speed to 40, completely unnecessary. We accelerate, we inhibit, we pollute the environment, we increase fuel consumption, and, finally, it is not always safe to reduce and accelerate on the highway especially when there are obstacles such as these concrete islands of toll stations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you say we are dealing with some technicalities here in Parliament. No, no, no. We are ordering the controller to remove the excess parts of the toll stations, the technical solution he will find for this, is his business, we will not go into technical solutions to this. I hope we don't take it here, or we have enough space, some paper, and we start drawing, and we design removals, and installations, etc., even though a few of us are qualified for it in this House. We're not just technical analphabetes here. But we know what we can and can't do, and we know that if we want to, we don't want to. We continued to think that the current government wanted to reintroduce to itself to tolling, so when it was originally, and to end the blames, I think it was one time even up to date and that is why toll stations remain. Thank God it didn't happen, and now it's time to make some joint effort. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is six months too little, let us determine nine months or twelve months, just so that, for God's sake, these extra toll stations disappear, which are totally unnecessary. Respected, if there is no problem to design a viaduct and build a viaduct Black Kal, if there is no problem, I don't know, such and other technical solutions to find, then it will probably not be a problem to find a solution, easy solutions to remove some concrete islands. Start with those toll stations of the 28 front lines, where this will be significantly easier to do. I arrived in Ljubljana this afternoon, I tell you, both in Drnov and in the Age it is quite easy to do this, quite simply. To ensure safe passage to toll vehicles when they have to stop and to the vignettes. Here you are pleading for formalities, a respected government. You're saying it's not a subject of law, that it's stipulated by law, that it has to be determined differently. Yeah, well, why didn't you make any other arrangements? Why does the government, Dars, not whoever did this? Instead, he is uneconomically spending money on a variety of things, and we will also consider this at this meeting. After all, Darsa’s board of directors secures its own liability by means of society. So whatever she does wrong, the company will pay for it if someone sues and sues for a mistrial. Well, there's not much money. After all, you're saying it's not the right time to have other things now. Finally, a construction man, a subcontractor who did not receive money from the favored SCT in Dars' current calls, could get some work here, what he did and survived, and so they would probably just slowly drive down that road, but they could stand and work. That's why I think your excuses, if you can't, are attracted to your hair. Indeed, I do not know on behalf of what, gentlemen, I have heard the presentations of all the parliamentary groups, not one but the Slovenian Democratic Party does not support this, but you say that this project is interesting and supported by road users. So why are we sitting here? So that we can defend one "scuffed" government without support to defend the issues at Dars, which are a series of legitimate perceptions, not just by policy, but also by the Court of Auditors? What are we defending? I think you'll find it hard to argue that people are convinced that the law is not the right solution, that this is not regulated by law, but what if nothing else can be arranged in this country? One more thing. Here are representatives of coalition parties in total conflict over their statements. They say that the end of 2012 will be vines, that is to say other tolling methods, while the government is extending the validity of vineyards until 2016, the Action Plan on Electronic Tolling is also adopted: in the free traffic for passenger vehicles, the government is extending the validity of vineyards until 2016. Here, the representatives of the SD speak on behalf of the Group of Members, that the vineyards are counted days to be there after 2012, or that we are mishearing in this House. I don't know, you rely on such arguments when building your opposition to this proposal. However, we will not meet this bill for the last time, even if it is rejected today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Grill has the floor to prepare Franco Juri or Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Government, respectable coalition! If it is a problem for you to remove toll stations, then we are not surprised that you are not in the same situation as Slovenia has experienced, the economic situation that we are in. Indeed, this is now more than obvious as the scope of this government, and not least the coalition itself. The reasons given here are more than ridiculous, and I believe that those who, in addition to the few Members, as many of them as are from the coalition here, see that they also smile and hope to cross over. Where are the reasons? Where are the reasons for this? Mr Vizjak mentioned earlier that, after the 2008 elections, it was probably a great interest for those who had a previous toll system in charge of charging, that they had a renewed interest in returning this way, because it was fat money, big money, big profits for the electorate who were or are part of those networks controlled by the left policy option. And it probably would have happened very soon, too, that we would have returned from the vignette system to the previous one if it had not been proven how the vignette system in Slovenia was, not one step forward, not only in the better flow of traffic, but also in greater safety, not least in the less ecological burden of the environment, etc. And probably there was a reason why she didn't decide to go back to the old system. But it is certainly once again one big thought for each of us who are driving, as well as for many people who are watching that this is a very convenient place and the way is very common, more and more often where police are hidden, literally hidden behind toll stations with laser speed gauges where they are depthd, the greasy depths of people, tourists, not least of us who are at least exceeding speed. 40 kilometers, as far as you can get from 130, as far as possible, to 40, by the way, 10, 15 percent, as far as these tolerances are concerned, can be exceeded and, of course, cashed. I also asked the Minister of Internal Affairs this question, why police are so eager to hide behind these stations and to go deep there, and also the question whether it is true that the Ministry of the Interior has acquired new radar stations for the toll stations. And her answer was yes. It is true that they have obtained them, that they are procured, that it is now only a matter of time before they are cashed out. Although it has been said that they will also be intended for others, I fear that here, where the place is convenient, it will be very soon in the function of deepening. But the other part of the question is why police like to measure speed or depth at these stations, but it was not the most convincing answer that the police have the direction to put these ambushes, if we say so, especially on those sections of the road where road safety is threatened. Now let me ask you, but you government representatives probably won't know this because it's not your department: how many accidents have there been with severe consequences at toll stations as a result of such high speed? In these three years, as far as I can remember, I have not recorded or observed such a case. And to speak now or to convince that there is a need to measure speed in order to increase traffic safety, I think it is unconvincing and also ridiculous. True, this is an excellent place to put down no ill-suspecting drivers. I am also very surprised by the fact that the government dares to challenge such a bill, that it is not a matter for a legislator. Dear Government! It is Parliament that provides for the Constitution to propose and also adopt legislation, any which is in accordance with the Constitution, or even anyone who tries to deny that it is inconsistent with the Constitution. And here, in this law, in fact, we can only speed up a decision or a tip-off by a government that doesn't decide whether or not it has the courage or the desire to remove toll stations. I also asked Mr Vlačič a question, why, where are the reasons, his answer was also in the sense that it was expensive, complicated. A bunch of excuses that don't hold water, but nothing's happened since then. Now find excuses that the vignette system won't be there in a year or two, and it's not true. We see that the vignette system by the government is now envisaged to be up until 2016, meaning that by 2016 we will be watching toll stations. To say that it is a technically demanding object or project to bring it down. Of course, I agree with this, but look, this matter to design to bring it down, there is no big problem, nor can financial problems be such a big problem, but in particular implementation itself. To talk about this being a major obstacle to traffic. Let us see how many road sections are being restored each year and all things are being done, and now we can say without any serious congestion. No, there really is no valid argument not to join these toll stations. Even this deadline, which some Members mention here in particular, is unrealistic, non-life and therefore they have doubts that they will not support. Of course it doesn't. First, what has already been said before, if it were by chance, but obviously not, this law will today get the green light to go into further procedure, before the month of September would certainly not be in the final stage of the hearing. It means that it is only in springtime that work can be done through the implementation of such a law. Not to mention that these 6 months, as currently envisaged, may be extended to three years if necessary. If you really had to, but at least you'd know, three years from now, these toll stations will be gone. Now we obviously don't know, and these toll stations will have to be removed by changing this government. If there's an early election, it'll be soon, if there's no early elections, it'll only be next year. It surprises me, particularly by the other groups of Members, which identify the non-necessity of these toll stations, but at the same time do not support this. Really, it's the wrong world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Marinič has the floor to prepare Mr Urh, Sayovic, Györek or Mr Brulc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Well, at least to me, those who objected and reasoned that it is not a good proposal by the SDS to remove so-called toll stations, which have ceased to function since 2008, you have not convinced me by any argument. Unfortunately, your arguments have been squandered, groundless and contrary to some of the specific issues the government has proposed and the coalition in the National Assembly has also confirmed. Now, if you take some arguments that of course do not last, not by laziness, not by professional judgement, of course, it is sad that there is a thousand and one excuse not to do so, but what is in the background, what is the interest and whose interest, of course, is another question, probably unknown to us, who are trying to help and provide users of roads with a normal ride. Now this one through these toll stations isn't normal. Maybe someone would convince me with a fact, and I didn't hear that maybe it was a problem that didn't lead to the removal of these toll stations because of the agony of SCT. Is this agony likely to be in the final stage so that perhaps now it will be easier from this point of view? What I said was exactly what the government proposed and the coalition adopted in the National Assembly last year, on 16 December, where we discussed and where you also passed the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities for 297,811 million and where you wrote it down in the third article – I will read this when you describe what you can spend everything for by 2016 – including the following: "investment, destruction of toll stations". Ladies and gentlemen of the government, did you overlook that? It says. The law of accounting, which was passed in the National Assembly. When we ask how these funds are used, for what purposes, Article 3 states exactly what purposes these funds will be used for and, inter alia, in writing, it is written down that for the destruction of toll stations. When we ask the Minister responsible for transport and also the obligations arising from Darsa’s obligations to the Republic of Slovenia or the competent minister, we do not get clear answers. I have already asked the Member's question twice to the competent minister and asked for clarification on how these funds are being used under this guarantee law, and I have never received a precise answer. Or if the minister came up with one of the contents of the answer, he'd get a different answer on Dars. You know, here it's hard to convince the opposition - in this case the SDS, how that something can't be done, but when you have and have suggested it yourself and have accepted it, you have all the bases, it's also said, a secure financial source. If you came to me with a law that doesn't have a financial resource, you'd be able to tell us that, and you're proposing something that costs so much and so much that the government doesn't have money for, the state doesn't have. And you've passed the guarantee law, and you've secured the funds. So, where's the obstacle? Where problems exist that users of Slovenian roads at these 28 toll stations have to reduce speed needlessly, we know what this means. We're approaching from 130 to 80, 60 to 40. And above all, the guardians of order on Slovenian roads, who are charged with doing their work as prescribed by the law, I have nothing against it, far from it, sometimes too few, there could be more, there would be no misinterpretation, but toll stations are not for this and do not serve this purpose to hide behind these concrete walls and measure speed. When I came across such a problem myself, I still understand, but how do they understand those who come once a year and drive through Slovenia and are a little inconceivable and pay in this way what they have intended to spend somewhere in a tourist town or Slovenia or elsewhere. Here is the problem and the problem arises mainly in your arguments that do not last. I pray you, so much longer that the government can explain, we have opened up additional questions that certainly require answers, because otherwise we will indeed, as colleague Vizjak said, meet again with the proposal of the law, because with such arguments we cannot be persuaded to withdraw from this, because they are not convincing, they are not substantiated and things really need to be done, as it should have been to remove these obstacles, it is not the whims of the SDS, it is not the interest of anyone else, it is the provision of some normal security for the passage of these toll stations, which since 2008, since the introduction of the blames, do not have their functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor. Mr Kek or Mr Ziherl should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Your Honor, hello! It's a very nice proposal, it's normal, we're all driving and stopping, reducing speed and so on at toll stations is not a pleasant thing. The blames saved us, at least most of us who use highways and fast roads almost every day because we saved hugely in our pocket, but what does that mean for the country, is another song and you know how the European Commission talked about discrimination and therefore we were richly rewarded with 38 million less money to build fast roads, so don't brag, don't talk nonsense just like that. We like the guilt because we pay less. And today it has been said that the guarantee law says that by 2016 toll stations will also be demolished, yes, by 2016, as it is planned that this will be in 2012, when automatic tolling will be done, electronic tolling of freight transport. I would now be the only one in charge of Dars to prepare for this year precisely, to obtain building permits and so on, that the day the tolling of freight will automatically, electronically, begin to tear down toll stations, and that is yes. People like it, and you've proposed something in this mandate like laws, laws that aren't real, unfortunately, it's a real profession, and I'm also sure there's no need to adopt some law to break toll stations, then we need some law to pave the way towards the Trnovo-Banja plano or what? This is the task of the services we have, the companies we have are in our possession and we also exercise control over them. The government is 11. 12. 2008 set up a commission to prepare measures to finance motorway programmes and so on, and this Commission has also agreed on how to dismantle toll stations and more. Finally, all I would say is this, a lot of things on the roads, on the fast roads and on the highways, I should check, and I have debated this in the National Assembly. The number of traffic signs on the fast road from Trench to Novi Gorica, when the entire forest lights up at night and the stranger does not know what is now ahead of it, or perhaps the speed limit at these toll stations at 40 kilometers, I am sure that you can normally transport this at 60 kilometers. And the one who can't, let him drive 40 kilometers through. To now tear down part of the toll station, part to save for freight traffic. It has already been said what infrastructure is needed here, what obstacles would be the trucks standing in line waiting for tolls, and we will pass the tree 130 kilometers an hour and so give. This is a matter of profession that I will not discuss, and I think that must be taken into account. I want to stress again, Dars, have all the paperwork ready. Let them also make sure that we have electronic freight tolling in 2012 and then demolish these toll stations. With regard to other regulations, the police and so on: drive through Austria, Italy, when stopped for very small offences, take the car, use the machine to measure you in the head until they check you out and so on, and no one complains. Let us respect traffic regulations, facilitate traffic, facilitate mobility as far as possible and do what everyone has to do in accordance with the rules. I believe that this matter will be brought to light in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Ziherl has the floor to prepare Mrs Montenegro, Mrs Wheeler, Mr Chapič or Mr Likar. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I wonder for myself what kind of highway it is if you have to reduce the speed from 130 to 40 kilometers per hour, if there's a lot of sections on those 50 kilometers, where one belt is cut out with those famous red white boards, and you can't see anyone behind them who would at least lean on the shovel without doing anything. While such a section is much shorter abroad, it features a construction mechanism, not workers, modern systems. Why pay tolls on a road where there are restrictions of 80 tunnels, even though it is a two-tier tunnel, which is a European standard for a one-tier tunnel, 5 kilometers or 7 kilometers long, Tauernbahn and so on. Why pay the toll when a new road has to be cut because the material was wrongly selected and in the rain of tears, and in the Troyan tunnel it brings out? What kind of highway is it if two German buses stop in the same place in Gorenjska within 14 days? What kind of highway is it if, in the week of the opening, they close the Schengen tunnel because the ceiling fell down, and so on? Why pay for it? If we're paying, certainly the vignette system is much better. If anyone has nostalgia in these houses, let him go to the Croatian highway for the weekend and have two hours at the "charged bitches Lučko", these are the ones in front of Zagreb and if he enjoys being there. We've heard of a difficult intervention. The problem was definitely the repairs listed. Is it hard to put and break those red white tables again? The money is enough because the highway programme is supposed to be overpaid with three billion and more euros, cartel negotiation and so on. Here, I allow them to make a cartel deal when they break up, to remove 60 houses. Then it's from 130 to 40 kilometers. This is the most dangerous part of the road. It is not where drivers enter in the wrong direction, so-called geisterfahrers, but it must be behind the radar and the signs of speed reduction are, of course, so placed that at the third time they are difficult to meet. I usually do, say, 60 drive through and, of course, there's no one in the house, but to whom do I honor myself if no one controls me if I have a vignette? I've had one control of the vignette on the lower highway, but a strong team has diverted us across the resting area, six to eight people have been controlling, sorting, everyone in their column, they've looked, you've got the vignette, drive on, just like you used to. Do we still have this relic of socialism and some outdated view in neighbouring countries? Not in Austria, not in the Czech Republic, not in Hungary, the whole Western Europe does not have it, only we must have some outdated bytes. Where it's payable — where they have a vignette system, they don't have any of it. One more thing. Do these toll houses have to wait for some super Ultra system, which will, of course, be deliberately made worse so that we can replenish and overpay it for years and years? In fact, to blow your head through a wall when the whole of Europe knows nothing about satellite and European tolls, when several more satellites must be launched for the Galileo system, when the European Union is only now preparing bilateral agreements, and I do not know at present which countries will be using Galileo's services, so it is too soon to talk about it. Due to our up-to-date in some other areas, however, we can say that by 2020 they will be at least on the market and that is why these toll houses are more than the rest of an old relic, outside the context. Of course, I don't expect anything to happen, because what another 15 percent of the government can do to us. To break doesn't even know what's superfluous. She was not even able to handle such a banal matter as restricting the use of shopping bags. The law had already been passed because it was incomplete. How, though, can we expect to experience safer, faster, more current traffic? Whether long delays are needed now in the season and the deterrence of people, not to mention all the environmental consequences. On the one hand, we would like to get all the traffic out of Slovenia, because it is responsible for PM 10 particles and some other pollution, but at the same time we set 60 pollution spots here, and we are unable to remove them. Well, it's an emergency. The government's ability to demonstrate whether they are in a position to do so, to carry out such a small, banal, construction operation and to make this happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor. Mr Rojej or Mr Bezjak should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I myself support the proposal to supplement the law submitted to the assembly by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, which envisages the removal of excess parts of the toll stations. They are disturbing, and above all they are not in the use phase and I think they are completely unnecessary. The introduction of the wine system in 2008 has achieved many of the objectives set by the law. Above all, the unnecessary stop at these toll stations has been eliminated, which has, as has been said, significantly increased the flow, especially at traffic stops. This has significantly reduced CO2 emissions to the atmosphere, mainly due to vehicle braking and then re-consuming, from an environmental point of view. Also this limit of 40 km per hour on this, in my opinion a very long section on highways, I am myself almost daily users of highways and I tell you, if every traffic operator would stick to these restrictions 40 per hour, I would think the congestion would be quite great. I don't mean to imply that we don't stick to these restrictions, but we're probably some of us, or we're here in the National Assembly, so that, in my opinion, such meaningless regulations might change and adapt and make them more lifelike. Finally, there was a warning, a while ago, that these measuring devices were installed along the highway and, of course, there was a chance to get a picture with a greeting for home. I mean, especially by saying hello to the penalty, and if you go over 50%, then they take your driver's license. As I say, I'm not in favour of breaking the rules, but I'm in favour of making these rules as viable as possible. Even though the government is eloquent, if it is not legal matter at all and that this is only a matter of technical nature, I do not think that this is entirely true. I don't know, but maybe it would be the Constitutional Court's responsibility if it wasn't for Parliament or if it wasn't for the legislative body. It is also true that this is a technical issue in particular, but I cannot agree that this is such a very professional question that it would not be possible to do so within a certain period of time as envisaged during the six-month period. The Law on Public Roads entered into force or the vignette system entered into force on 1 July 2008 and the question, or an indication, why this government did not do so is, of course, superfluous and it has also been said that the mandate has expired and if anything has been wrong or if you think that the vignette system is also inadequate, then every government has the opportunity to change it, and so far I have not followed this proposal. Otherwise, every excuse is good, and if a dog brings it on its tail, it is an old Slovenian proverb, and at least as far as the excuses are concerned, that something cannot be done, we do not fear in the future as long as this government is concerned. And if we all agree with the objective and purpose of the bill, or at least the majority, that is how it was to be traced from the perspectives of individual parliamentary groups, then let us give, let us find a common way, because I see no reason to give up the goal just because we have different solutions or because some do not have them at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak has the floor. Get Mr. Zanoškar ready, Majhenič or Grims ready. Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We have before us the Law on Public Roads, in which the Slovenian Democratic Party requires the actual removal of toll stations. Why? Right from that point of view, because we think it's an unnecessary hiding place for people in Dars who control guilt. For if it happens to this man that someone will hit him, then there will be a eclipse on the highways of Slovenia, as Mr Weber said earlier. At a time when human life is "injured", not because the hideouts of the people of Dars. In fact, in Slovenia we have a vignette system that shows a good effect, how to actually make the country more precise, how to actually make transport environmentally friendly and actually take a step forward in the modern world. Well, let's think about the system, how to go back. I hope that this Galileo European project will come to life in 2015, as is somehow envisaged, and then I hope that there will be no more of these problems that we are facing today, but unfortunately I still warn that we will not be a guinea pig again, as we always know in Slovenia to be and actually take the first step towards a better toll system. But let's join the controlled situation and then get on this train. Even with the re-introduction of ABC for freight vehicles, we could think about a better system, at least for Slovenian carriers or drivers, so that they could eventually drive through and be detected by cameras, because who would have electronics of modern computers, I think they could. As has already been said before, they are actually thinking or giving some people an opportunity, some companies are able to work from day to day every year an upgrade and thus actually fill their own pockets of businesses, etc. I think we need to support this law today. If you do not agree with any other things, let us add to the second reading and be suitable for all Slovenes and Slovenes, for the accuracy and quality of life in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor to prepare Mr Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Your Honor! The proposed law is certainly worth supporting for many reasons. Given the limited time, let me mention only one additional argument. Everyone in Gorenjska still remembers very well how traffic has been throughout Gorenjska due to to toll payments from, literally, the Karavanka tunnel to the Voklo toll station, every summer and later to the opposite direction. Today, the same story is repeated regrettably at all the points where the road is being squeezed, the number of lanes being reduced, and not only at toll stations, but unfortunately also at those remaining construction sites. I should therefore point out that one of the reasons that would be considered very seriously in favour of the proposed solutions, but also in the work of the Government, is clearly an unequal relationship when it comes to building the mountain transport links that we so urgently need against some other work. For example, when it was built on the Dolenjska highway, there was no problem in finding hundreds of thousands, even millions of euros to deal with individual claims of people who were recognised as party to the procedure, even for parking lots and the like. There was no problem for a special bridge, no problem. However, when it comes to resolving Mr Eržen's problem in Gorenjska at the Peracic viaduct, which has only been able to achieve a recognised status as a party to the proceedings, suddenly the matter turns completely. Not only is there a grave violation of the law, because now the judicial decision is being ignored, but he himself makes it very clear - it was also clear from the representatives of the official authority - that he was simply not offered any concrete offer for a constructive agreement. Slovenia and Gorenska need this link for a new development cycle and for human security. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And security doesn't have any price. [[...]] And for the rest of the seconds, even though March 8th is already over, I'm giving my colleague Alice Jeraj a chance to take advantage of them. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you. The word is given by Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, given 30 seconds. [[He's quitting.]] Mr Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the government! We are also talking about everything in today's debate on amending the law, including the priorities for the construction of motorways. We are talking about the incompetent profession that designed Slovenian highways, about operators who did their job poorly, about maintenance workers sitting, lying and not doing their job, about plastic bags and also about such ideas that some toll systems can be changed in each mandate separately. I think if we have that in mind, then we're gonna have a hard time getting somewhere. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I said that the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia would not support this law, because, in our opinion, it was a very technical issue that was not dealt with by law, but in another way, and that it was an extremely professional issue, both in terms of safety and in terms of construction and in terms of transport. There is another way to achieve this goal. I am confident that the government, one or the other, will do so and that Dars will remove these toll stations as soon as possible and will ensure even greater accuracy, security and fewer congestion in the future. But in our view, this is almost impossible to do until we have introduced a system of tolling in the free traffic flow. This is an extremely technical solution and some partial removal of toll stations would be very expensive, security-related and would not have been as effective as the applicants would have wanted. I will therefore, of course, vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Of course, I expect from the Government that, within the action plan for the free movement of tolls, it respects its hands in a consistent manner, so as to enforce tolls on freight vehicles as soon as possible, and then to ensure as soon as possible the achievement of this objective, the removal of toll stations. And I believe it will happen in some reasonable hands. But speaking of doing all this in six months, I think it's more than unrealistic. Those of us who know how you get to the choice of the contractor, including the construction of demolition projects, and even when it comes to simple objects, we know that it takes time. In Slovenia today, in this construction crisis, we choose contractors for individual investments, and we know. Months run very fast, and within six months, I guarantee you it's impossible to do all this. Here's to the end. The introduction of tolling using vinjets was a very attractive measure. Never in this government have we thought about going back to tolling, as it was before the introduction of the vinite system, but we have thought about the need to introduce the tolling system as soon as possible, because it is also the most honest. Let the users of the motorway pay in proportion to the kilometres transported on the highway This seems to me to be the most fair system in the final stage, and this goal needs to be followed, and I hope that anyone will be in power to implement this system as soon as possible and that we will remove these toll stations referred to in this law. Once again, we will not support the law in the LDS, but we will draw the attention of the government to the implementation of both the action plan and the implementation of this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know where to start, but I'm going to say that from my several years of history in this building, that my view of the problem is such that once the National Assembly starts to get involved in some very professional things that then there is nothing good about it, especially in the field of tolling. Those who have been here longer than I have, you know, that the National Assembly has started to interfere with some of the conclusions already in years, I think 1994, 1995 and then these toll stations have been torn down, then these toll stations have been introduced and so on, and since then we have literally some mixed system in Slovenia, which certainly needs new solutions. Now, today's debate was very interesting, I liked what "out of the sword" about overpaid highways, now for three billion, I had heard earlier from a colleague. So, I think that after everything that's gone wrong on these highways in all of history, that highways are overpaid, because they're also guilty of calling the bus if the driver falls asleep and so on, that the system is overpaid there for, I don't know, how much, 6 billion because it's just better not to be, because then there would be no problems. Then they'd stand on the roads like we used to be in Trzin, the ones we come from this side and there wouldn't be any problem. So it's an extremely interesting discussion, but it certainly won't do any good. Well, my friend Jerič earlier said one point, if you did, a colleague earlier said, but if anyone doesn't like the vignette system, let every government have a chance to change the toll system. I'm asking you nicely, and every government in the future, don't do this because it's not a shirt you're changing every day, but it's a toll system, it's comprehensive and expensive, and I don't know what else, it doesn't cost 2 million, but it's an extremely difficult thing, and when we do, we have to get to the end, thoroughly studied. I accept these two reasons the government has given me, and I lack the main reason for this. The main reason why I am against this is that, for the first time, the law does not accept it, but it is a technical issue, I attach it to the government or the ministry, but why I am primarily against what is the main problem – because we do not have the prescribed toll system to go on. And why break something now, because it's also technically questionable why break it down until we have a proper system. When we have, when we draw a system, whatever it is, I'm not the one who's going to decide it, but then we're going to say, well, then I'm going to have to say, construction, construction and design and do this and that. So that's why I think this proposal likes it, I'm sure a lot of people would like it, even though I don't see any special linings here right now. We still have trucks on the ABC system after all, or someone's hoping to get them back on tolling with payments. Does anyone hope for them?Oh, my God! Then we'll have truckers on the road. On the other hand, it is necessary to introduce control, including personal vehicles and also trucks. The Austrians have this solution in such a way that they have special exports or circumvention sites where they simply redirect all vehicles or all trucks or all vehicles and they are literally there from the first to the last during a certain period of time, and I have never heard of anyone to get angry about this, of course he was angry if he did not have the vignette or he did not buy the vignette or he did not have the lorry of this device he was paying for. In particular, this question, what will be the toll system and when will we come to the final decision on the future toll system in some traffic flow, and then surely there will be a better solution than it is now, but by then, I will say: if we endure these speed limits for four years, we will be two more – so long as we decide on the future toll system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you. Would you like a word on behalf of the government, Dr. Jakomin? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much. In all this debate, I would like to add only that the new free movement toll system will enter into force in October 2012 in accordance with the timetable in force, and the European Community Directive also obliges us to do so. So now talking about some old toll systems, going back to the old system, it's totally inappropriate, and it's also misleading. Only with the introduction of an electronic toll system will it be ensured that transport flows are in fact completely free and only then can construction work be started to destroy the toll stations. In fact, if we decided to do such an operation as was proposed today, we would first put security at risk, especially those involved in construction, you know very well that if we went with the construction works on the central belts today, we would first put security at risk, for which the Ministry of Transport is safe and the whole government will not, at least it will not agree to it and will not allow it. In addition, it would require greater financial impact. In fact, the proposal, which was today, refers to the fact that twice we should have intervened on the motorway body, first on the midway lanes, when electronic tolls for heavy goods vehicles were introduced, then on the side, which is unacceptable and irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Petan has the floor. Five minutes each. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! There's been a lot of talk today. However, I support our proposal so that something will not be wrong. However, I would like to draw attention to some things that we may not have spoken so much about today or to respond to certain claims. There has been a lot of hearing that this is not possible because this is a technical issue and the law is not regulated. That's what I'd say. Given that this has not been realized so far, that these toll stations or individual toll cabins are still standing, I ask you, however, how should we seriously remind the government of this matter, if it has not done so through all the services it has, through Dars, of course, to remember this at Dars, anyway, because they have the best president - untouchable, it probably does not deal with such small things as to enable better, easier, simpler traffic for users of motorways, thus probably not being able to deal with the lady. But there is something else, if this is a technical issue, and this is not done with the law, I ask you, how can RTV be obtained by law through those who have an electric counter. Is that possible? Let us consider what we are talking about as if that is not a technical question. That's an even more detailed question of how we're going to get an RTV subscription, but we still have a solution like that, and whoever proposed it, because it doesn't matter. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. In fact, some of you have said a lot today that the introduction of the vinite system was quick, reckless, unprofessional, without analysis, without any research, doctoral dissertation. I would like to remind you that there are vineyards in other countries as well. So we didn't invent hot water, but something that we can say today has prevented columns and congestion in areas where we have toll stations. On the other hand, as many toll stations as we have in Slovenia are not in any other country. We're all aware of that. If there were still tolling and payment, these stations should be stopped. We know they'd be kilometers. When the traffic just ran out, another toll station arrived, the columns were four years ago, when the system was still practically one toll station to another. In addition, I would also like to remind you of this, otherwise I do not know what the Secretary of State was thinking when he said that a free-flow toll system would be introduced in 2012, but we were informed at the same time that the Government was extending the blames until 2016. Something doesn't go together, or the combined system, as far as possible, I admit. Then I would like the government to inform us how it is meant that we will not speak to one another, and we will refer to an opinion or to what is written in the government’s written material. And here's something else that's interesting. I have traced the information that the European Union is also proposing or thinking or already having, and I do not know what act to introduce vignettes for trucks after 2016. If so, then we could even say that the introduction of this vignette system was not that stupid at all, but we could even say that it was far-reaching, far-reaching. We know that in some countries in the European Union, trucks already have tolls, monitoring of trucks with a satellite system. Of course tolling and tracking trucks, that's two things, it's perfectly clear to me. The introduction of vinjets, however, suggests that this system will probably not just disappear from European roads and that it is probably not even necessary to rush into Slovenia with another system. However, the introduction of vignettes was not reckless, nor too fast, it was recognized, because we have been torturing and polluting the environment at these toll stations, which are certainly too many in Slovenia. I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable fellow Members! Guilt was certainly a courageous matter, a courageous measure that, contrary to some skeptics and thinking, showed that it does not bring loss. It brings better security in the country, bringing more traffic to motorways and not so much to road transport, which is certainly a good measure. It was a courageous move, which probably at that time, a hand to the heart, could also be questionable and skeptical. She turned out to be good. There's been a lot of controversy over whether it's a fair system. The fairest system is really what you drive, that's what you pay. But if the effects were to be achieved that traffic was diverted from the roads that were under siege to highways and thus increased traffic safety, the accidents that were taking place, it is said, should also be measured by these vats. We now expect that electronic tolling will take place, and if we come to that, if we do that, then it will be the most likely time to go in that direction with these matters and with the removal of these objects. In short, I'm in a dilemma today when I can say that I'm somewhere in the middle of something that could or could not be broken down, so today I'm going to abstain because I really didn't get enough convincing data to decide to support it today. However, I have another thing to say, given that I have tracked the information that the possibility of a vignette system for trucks is also adopted at EU level, it is said, but here we are again at this point when this matter and this law should be supported. In short, I'm in a dilemma somewhere. However, I don't use a lot of highways. I have to say that when I use them, I really don't have a problem crossing these stations, at the speed that's currently possible, and I'm also not such a good driver that I can drive 70, 80 over there, but somewhere on those 50 it has to fall, even if it's 40. But others you know more about how you use them, whether it's really so problematic, or whether you really get so crowded that you need to get this thing out of the way right now. I'd say that when it comes to controlling, but even some of Darsa's supervisors could use these facilities to spot the driver who's crossing this station, whether he's got a vignette or not. And with all the communications, it is possible to discuss that at the next station you can also intercept and act as you should, in a way that many of these offenders will also be discovered and, on the other hand, they are now sufficiently discovered in this way, at least they are boasting, even though I must say that there is some way in which they can really come into this situation in a more unfortunate way. In short, the marriage is taken in the right direction, but I think as far as I'm concerned, it's not the right time, so I'm gonna hold on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u94	Your Honor! Not only did the introduction of vignettes remove the unknown long columns, which so beautifully decorated Slovenian nature and enriched it with exhaust gases and everything else in front of each toll station, especially in traffic peaks and especially in the summers, have made it possible to transport more safely and is now forgotten. For two years now, we have been listening to how traffic security has improved during the current government, that there are fewer accidents, especially on regional roads, etc. And, of course, it doesn't tell what the story is about. The introduction of the vignette system, which was one of the most courageous acts of the previous government, by resisting the financial and toll lobby or all those who parasiteised in the regulation of Slovenian motorway traffic, allowed the traffic from regional roads to be largely diverted to motorways and thus became safer both on regional roads, as there was no more congestion on motorways as well as on motorways themselves. As a result, the transport situation in terms of safety was significantly better during this period than it had been in the previous period. This, of course, also tells us how to proceed if we are to listen to it. Many of them stressed the importance of introducing the satellite system as soon as possible and would agree with them when it comes to freight transport, unless, of course, the blame for freight transport is introduced, in order to regulate it in a European way. When it comes to personal traffic, however, the situation is quite different. Because what happens if you introduce a toll system using a satellite. If you only introduce it for highways, then of course the traffic will be directed back to regional roads. Once again, we will witness an endless stalemate, like in Gorenjska from Kranj to Ljubljana, the traffic will again be on the regional side, moving along the snails, the number of accidents will rise again, the lives of the users of regional roads and the lives of the people living along these roads will again be more at risk. But if you introduce satellite tolling, and that was actually the final goal, at least that's how it was declared, for all roads, which means that every moment everyone who gets in the car is already paying some extra tax. And now let's see if this tax is really in the development interest of the state of Slovenia - I say not. For who is really being asked? Targeted mainly the most active generation, assigned mainly to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, those who are by nature the most on the road. Slovenian roads, including motorways, are a major difference, for example against the neighbor of Croatia, which some of you mentioned, were built with taxpayers' money, with Slovenian money. And so in fact, who contributed the most – again small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the most active part of the Slovenian population. And these people with this system, if we put it in place, twice, have contributed more to the construction – that is how things are usually understood when they talk in American politics, in Slovenia, I know that this is a rare thing. But this is the essence of the story – those who contributed the most as taxpayers have in fact also contributed the most to the construction of the Slovenian highway network – the whole of the road network. And now they're going to be burdened again because they're going to use it again. This, of course, raises questions as to whether this system is as fair and correct as it is often said; I say it is already worth considering. Even if we accepted this as a starting point, I would argue that it is certainly not in the development interest, because it is precisely the most productive two times the burden. For this reason, the system of vignettes is significantly, substantially better. And it would be appropriate to take all possible ways to keep it as long as possible, preferably permanently. And I hope that today it is a pity for all those on the transition left who stormed so much in Brussels to say negatively about the system, which was significantly cheaper, that the blame was only €55 introduced by the previous government. And then they took over and got boomerang, and today's tax on their stupidity, on politics, at an additional 40 euros, we all pay. Don't let this history repeat itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Some of you have talked about supporting our proposal and that it is a good idea and you deeply agree with it, but now is not the time. I think it's high time to settle this, because, frankly, highway houses actually serve only to fill the budget when police officers stand up for the toll station and punish drivers; what other benefits there are. Several times it has been said that this is technically not feasible to be so complicated things that they cannot be crushed. I think that's funny at least. Then let us write for these houses that these are some very complicated things, not simple objects that stand on highways. Some were hurt that we said the highways were overpaid several times. We know that because of many events, from investigative commissions to various other investigations carried out through NPUs or other institutions in this country, which need to determine whether corruption and similar matters have also led to a substantial cost of construction, or are our motorways, compared with highways in other countries, too expensive, but there is no need to be any serious manager or economist to find out, and therefore such excuses are ridiculous. Some of you said you wouldn't go back to the previous system, then that means we don't need these houses from the past, and some of you warned or mentioned why you'd be against this law because it's not solved by law. Indeed, it would not be necessary to resolve this by law if it were already done, of course, if the houses were already broken, but because this government must determine many things by law. The last time, two ministers or State Secretary Mrs Kamnareva and Mrs Krebsov said that they had already decided several times that they should not be employed by the ministries or in the state administration, but that they were all employed, and they would now adopt and propose legislation to restrict this so that employment would not continue. In short, whether it is a law or otherwise regulated, it is totally irrelevant. It is important that the matter is settled, and even if you adopt the law, it is not necessary that the matter actually happens, because some other minister, and she has even been intertwined for it, violates a whole bunch of other laws, but what others will find about it. In short, today to talk about whether we should do it or not, we have been talking about this in practice since the introduction of the system of vineyards, operates across Europe, we will now be first in another proposal, in another way, and we have barely introduced it and turned out to be good. Therefore, the questions today, whether we should do this or whether it will be a more appropriate time after a while, are funny, and I think that the law we are proposing would deserve support, at all, because there was virtually no reasonable reason against it, except that this is so technically impossible and the Secretary of State said that we would compromise security. Come on, now, because it's gone down, we've got a whole bunch of clamps, and we're driving for a little while in the narrower work, so that some other thing on the other side of the road can be arranged, so we're not going to put anything more at risk of security, we're going to make it better with the vignette system, and we're removing what's hampering it so that maybe security is even better. It would probably be interesting to hear how many accidents there have been during this stop, stop and all the circus that happens in front of the toll stations that we witness every day to those on the highways.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Very welcome, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, employees, co-workers, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Really interesting today's debate, I was just waiting for someone to mention in this debate that now is the time of cherry and strawberries. This is the only thing I have not heard in the debate on the Law on Public Roads. In fact, everything has already been mixed up, so the only thing worth mentioning in this summertime is. It was interesting, too, to say that when someone said there was no real reason against it, that it could also be returned for time, but it was not about reading one or the other government, perhaps even during the previous government, because there was no real reason against it at the time, and these toll stations were not removed. So that there probably had to be a reason, perhaps even a financial nature, there was a great deal to be heard today by my colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues, about the technical field, but those who are experts, acquaintances, somehow also technically difficult to convince themselves why, three years ago or shortly after the introduction of the wine system, this could not be done. So in this technique, obviously, the technique had already failed. I am convinced, however, that the provision of security, in addition to the financial moment, was certainly one of the most important reasons. However, it is likely that the technique has influenced so much that, as has been mentioned several times by the Secretary of State today, it is necessary to remove both the removal of buildings and the removal of toll stations to have all the documentation prepared so that the production of PGD projects is now under way and, in accordance with the timetable, to repeat, it has been said that, at the end of 2012, when the electronic toll system is established, Dars will also have all the necessary documentation available by then and will begin the removal of toll stations. But surely security is the first and right thing to do, here I really have to repeat, it may also remind some that related to security, I hope that someone has not forgotten, but I am really driving after this, a little bit surprised that not some colleagues who are also driving along this road as I am, – through the lower leg – have repeatedly stressed whether some who are not really driving, because perhaps even closer to any branch they are heading towards, or White Krajina or anywhere else along the Kolpa River, that they have not stressed that security is greater in the area of the lower leg of the highway, and thanks to this government. Before that – I drive on this road alone across the area – it was almost no week that there were no fatal accidents. In this area, however, this government has taken a step, even though there are many perceptions, debates and I do not know what, but I think we are satisfied. This was technically not highlighted by some colleagues. So, I am sure that this matter will, certainly, be disruptive, but the conclusion is that this is not going to work, even my colleagues, whom I very much respect, my colleagues who themselves know the field of transport infrastructure and this department, who have also very clearly highlighted certain things, why this has not been done in the past or is now immediately. Therefore, I cannot support this proposal alone in this proposal, but I am sure and will support everything that the matter is being prepared as soon as possible, as regards documentation, the establishment of an electronic toll system and, in particular, the direction of ensuring the greatest possible safety in transport, both road and other transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the agenda, the third draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Intermediation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Rok Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act are aimed at aligning the Slovenian acquis with the two directives of the European Union, the Directive governing the recognition of professional qualifications and the Directive on Services in the Internal Market. The amendment of the law will provide legal grounds for foreign citizens to also be able to provide mediation services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law provides for the possibility of permanent or occasional real estate intervention activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that foreigners must acquire the status of a real estate intermediary. The draft law also follows the principles laid down by the Directive for the services and activities of providers established in the European Union, namely the principles of administrative simplification, the prohibition of discriminatory treatment and the prohibition of duplication of requirements and the re-checking of evidence. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the real estate transfer law also lays down obligations for foreign real estate companies with regard to the insurance of liability for potential damage resulting from the provision of intervention services in the Republic of Slovenia, both to the contracting authority and to a third party. Insurance is not conditional on the conclusion of insurance in the Republic of Slovenia, but must be concluded before the start of intervention activities in our territory and concluded for the entire time of intervention. The requirement for reciprocity is prohibited by the Internal Market Services Directive and this condition is therefore deleted by amending the law, except for third-country nationals who remain as a condition for recognition of the status of a real estate intermediary. In accordance with the requirements of the European Directive, there is no longer any restriction on the premises prescribed by the applicable law. In addition to that amendment and the addition of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, it also provides for the suspension of certain administrative requirements for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. An individual who obtains a certificate of professional qualifications obtained, an intermediary or a real estate broker thus acquires a status already by entering a real estate broker's directory without having to obtain a decision and may immediately engage in a real estate transaction activity. At its 28th meeting, on 18 May 2011, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a second reading of the proposal of this Act. In the context of this consideration, he adopted the amendment to Articles 6 and 14 of the draft law. The third reading proposes an amendment to Article 14. In fact, it is a matter of correcting the lower limit of the fine due to the conversion into euro. The law will continue to limit the ceiling of the commission, as it has taken over the view that the consumer is better protected. As a result, Slovenia will have to report to the European Commission, but it will be able to base its report on the public interest of consumer protection. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I propose that the text of the proposal for a law on real estate mediation be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Petan will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Real Estate Intermediation Act is one of those unnecessary laws that we deal with here in the National Assembly. I'm not gonna say we're wasting time, but we can learn from this. It is unnecessary because it does not save anything because it does not facilitate work for those to whom it relates, so to speak, let us say to the buyers of real estate. I could even say he's making trouble. In any case, it is the fruit of some lobbies. It has to be admitted that he is not the first, which is sad to say that he is not the first such law, one in a series of these unnecessary laws. Let me just say one thing. The most inexorable is the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and on Conformity Assessment, which is related to the Consumer Protection Act, which spoke of guarantees. He was also the fruit of a lobby, just like this one today. And if you allow me to go in the order of things, why are we in the Slovenian Democratic Party such an opinion that we are wasting time with such laws? The basic proposal of this law, which was sent from the Government to the National Assembly, essentially had all that was written there, one and the basic task of reducing or abolishing the ceiling of the commission for real estate intermediaries. This was the basic task of this law, probably under the influence of a certain lobby. The debate has begun. The debate, I can say, was a good one, and only in opposition to the opposition we have achieved that somehow we have all come to realize that at that time it would probably not be good to release the real estate commissions, because if anything, then at that time the commissions should probably fall. But if we did, that would certainly be a signal for a free commission hunt. Then it's gone if I use that term, from this law. Then there's something very useful, a lot of content and a lot of meat on the bones of this marriage. If we were careful, we could see that, in the second reading of this law, a so-called fiduciary account appeared on the parental committee at a meeting of real estate agencies. I can say that the government representative objected to such a solution. However, the majority of the members of the ruling coalition confirmed this, despite the fact that the government representative had opposed it. What follows from this? It follows that this law is not essentially prepared by the Government, prepared by the Government, or at least not on its initiative, but that there must be some interest groups in the back, formal, informal, that is, in the final stage, there are some lobbies working through the government, and that is the problem. However, they still find enough support to vote on this fiduciary account on the parental committee. But look at him, schmuck, for the third reading we got at the table of amendments to coalition groups that delete this article with this fiduciary account. I can say that we were happy in the Slovenian Democratic Party and said, well, another success of the debate we had in the National Assembly, that common sense prevailed. But no, a few days later, an amendment came in to correct the amendment to withdraw. That's supposed to keep the fiduciary account. So, that's too much to be a coincidence, it says, let the lobby beat common sense again. Thus, we have a marriage before us that, as such, is unlikely to do any harm. However, there remains a bitter taste that the Government does not lead certain legislation, not to propose it, but to certain lobbying that influences or influences the government, in this case I would hope to claim that it is past the government. But they will find fertile soil in our National Assembly. That's what's worth thinking about and what makes us think. In that first case, which I mentioned, the Government of the Minister of Economy was then overpowered by the idea that probably such a guarantee removal law would not be good. I'm sure the Minister wasn't preparing him to rely on her subordinates, and they were, of course, under the influence of certain lobbyists. But that's when we took the matter back. And in that case, we didn't make it. Although we have already received an amendment at the table, this famous solution on fiduciary accounts that can be held by real estate agencies is also deleted from the amendment. That's what's worrying. We are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that everyone can make a mistake. The government could have made a mistake, too, but apparently it was all over her. Because the Government clearly and loudly opposed the establishment of fiduciary accounts at the meeting of the parent board. Clearly and loudly, this must be said honestly and properly. However, I do not know how now all this confusion has occurred, that the Government also supports such a solution in the final stage. And because we have the feeling that this law has been prepared by the lobby and not by our government, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we have, from the very beginning, drawn attention to some of the reckless solutions contained in the Proposal for a Real Estate Intermediation Act when it first came into consideration in the National Assembly. That is why we have also supported all the additions that have eliminated the changes that would have affected consumers from the management of the maximum commission to the 9-month duration of the intermediate contracts. We have listened in particular to the consumer association and to the public interest. We have not bought the thesis that there is a need to intervene in any way in this legislation in order to release commissions on behalf of the European directives. We don't buy these stories anymore. However, we have had an unloving error when an amendment was adopted, which was discussed in the presentation of the position of a previous colleague from the SDS, and this is an amendment on the acceptance of client money into the fiduciary account of a real estate company. We are afraid that this would become a standard of business, so that each company in its contract would make provision for the payment of the purchase or the payment of the ara to its account. The business of fiduciary accounts is not arranged anywhere. The only advantage before the ordinary transaction account is that it is not possible to execute the creditors of the real estate company for the debts of the company, but no rules exist, to whom and how funds are transferred from the account, or the law does not impose any additional security which would prevent the possible misuse of funds in those accounts. The solution, which is now enshrined in the law, poses a potential threat to abuse and thus harming consumers when buying or selling real estate, as the Slovenian Consumers' Union also points out. Unfortunately, this error in the third reading cannot be corrected, so in the Group of Members, we are indeed prepared to support or also to introduce a new law that would remove reckless solutions that do not foresee all consequences and under-lawfully protect consumers. So, if we finish, we will support the law, immediately after this unloving error and because of the impossibility to correct this mistake in the third reading, we would approach the amendment of the law with a change that we expect and believe that we will receive the support of the opposition parties as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the area of real estate mediation is one of the areas where customers or consumers must be, as such, adequately protected. We are aware that the work of real estate intermediaries in these times is as early as possible, but we estimate that they must respect the rights of the consumer fairly and legally and as closely as possible to his wishes. Members of the Slovenian People's Party did not support the initial proposal of the Law on Real Estate Intermediation, because we simply could not agree with certain provisions. At that time, at the time of presenting our views, we warned that in order to harmonise the law with the legal order of the EU, provisions are being drawn up in the law that could make the situation of the consumer worse, which is already already in a subordinate position many times compared to the service providers. As it turned out later, our predictions came true. In our view, the initial proposed provisions on the lifting of the maximum commission limit for the intervention and the maximum duration of the real estate transfer contract, which lasts for 9 months, would result in a reduction of consumer rights, which is unacceptable for us. While the new law also lays down in more detail the conditions for the recognition of professional qualifications for carrying out real estate activities for European Union citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, as laid down in Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, following the principle of the prohibition of discriminatory treatment. In the opinion of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group, such an arrangement should be ensured, as we are part of a common European space based on the principles of free movement of persons, services and capital. The current regulation of real estate intervention is, in our opinion, exemplary, but certain adjustments are also needed, but they must be prepared in order to improve the situation on the real estate market and increase consumer rights, not their contraction. The statutory restriction on the highest commission for the purchase or sale of real estate, which currently amounts to 4 %, is one of the things that undoubtedly works in the interests of consumers. The highest level of the commission was established precisely because of the large number of disputes between consumers and real estate agencies, or intermediaries, in which consumers were usually short-lived. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group support the change in the coalition, which is aware of the sensitivity of the problem of the elimination of the highest commission permit, as also pointed out by the Slovenian Consumers' Union. The level of fees cannot be left to the market simply because it does not work properly because of the unequal situation of the parties and cannot create an appropriate price for such services. We believe that the restriction imposed by the State must remain, as it is only possible to fully implement the principle of consumer protection, which, in our view, is clearly in the public interest. For this reason, we have also supported amendments that have appropriately reformulated the disputed provisions contained in the original proposal of the law, thus maintaining the maximum commission and limitation of the duration of the mediation contract for nine months in the Real Estate Intermediation Act. For this reason, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings are given to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have a third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. In our parliamentary group, in the first reading of the proposal, we announced that we would not support the proposal unless the basis of the provisions on the abolition of the limitation of the commission and the abolition of the legal period of the real estate intervention contract were changed. These proposals, according to our assessment, were the most controversial and at the same time constituted an enormous reduction in consumer protection. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the country is the one that must protect the weaker party, which is certainly a consumer and not a real estate intermediary, and that is why we will also support the draft law in the third reading in order to eliminate the above-mentioned provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you. Mag. Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Minister, co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law lays down in more detail the conditions for the provision of services to providers and third-country nationals. The transposition of the directive is intended to ensure that the applicants can provide non-discriminatory opportunities for the provision of real estate services in the territory of Slovenia and to enable real estate companies from the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and Switzerland to operate in this area. We're wondering why. Why now that the real estate crisis has reached the highest level of negative business? I believe that on the Slovenian market there are enough, too many, real estate intermediaries, which have led to the collapse of the crisis mentioned earlier. However, those who have survived will only be harmed by the competition of real estate intermediaries from the Member States of the European Union. Other issues arise in particular when the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act is adopted. What does this mean for Slovenia? Will it really attract foreign real estate intermediaries who will create a healthy real estate environment, or will it only allow the valuation and travel of Slovenian territory? Probably nothing good. The considerations that some parliamentary groups have had with regard to the free establishment of the real estate transfer commission and the conduct of the intervention activity without limiting the duration of the brokerage contract are now superfluous. The supplementary proposal sets out a maximum commission of 4 %, except for contract values of less than EUR 10 000, and the duration of the intermediate contract remains 9 months. This is why we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, we strongly reject the imposed institution of fundraising in fiduciary accounts, behind which is a huge assumption of the abuse of actors in real estate mediation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! The amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act under consideration is mainly a harmonisation of the area of real estate intervention with the acquis of the European Union. Its implementation will thus allow non-discriminatory provision of real estate services in Slovenia to real estate companies established in the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area, Switzerland or established in the country with which an international agreement is concluded. It will also allow the possibility of obtaining the status of a real estate intermediary as a citizen or national of each Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area and Switzerland, which will prove that it has already acquired professional qualifications in the Member State of the European Union, the Member State of the European Economic Area or Switzerland. It will also be able to obtain status through the procedures prescribed by this law. No one had any doubts about these solutions. This is what we, as a member of the European Union, are obliged to do, and so is it. However, the novelty has also made a strong contribution to the current regulation of the relationship between the consumer and the real estate agency or real estate intermediary. The Novela wanted to implement the free fixing of the commission's height and the carrying out of the intervention activity without limiting the duration of the mediation contract. The proposal triggered general opposition. In the second reading, by adopting the relevant amendments, we deleted the contested provision from the legislative text and amended Article 5 of the Act, which now provides for a new maximum allowable payment for intervention. The current arrangements, i.e. the maximum allowable 4 % commission and the maximum 9-month duration of the intermediate contract, implicitly recognise that the real estate services market is not yet functioning properly and that there are anomalies on it, justifying such an intervention on the market. However, it could be concluded from the original proposed legislative text that the market is now functioning in order and without difficulty. For that reason, the Ministry of Environment and Space has not provided us with any analysis. The deletion of the maximum commission for the intervention operation was based primarily on the 2006 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. Under this Directive, any determination of the minimum or, of course, the maximum tariffs to be applied by the tenderer must be justified by the Member State for important reasons relating to public interest. In our understanding, such an important reason is certainly the protection of consumers in the still poorly functioning market for Slovenian real estate, which is, of course, absolutely in the public interest. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we are in principle opposed to unnecessary State intervention in individual markets where this is not necessary and when this is not necessary. This also applies to the real estate services market. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space has not convinced us that the market is already functioning properly, without disturbances and difficulties, which would justify the application of free commissioning and the conduct of intervention activities without limiting the duration of the mediation contract. That is why, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, in the second reading, we supported the adoption of the relevant amendments, which maintain the maximum permissible 4% commission when the contractual value of the property is higher than 10,000 euros and a maximum of 9 months of the duration of the mediation contract. Most users of this service sell and buy real estate once or twice in their lives, because it is a good that for the most part represents a life investment and invests all their savings and is charged for one, two or three decades. Therefore, the State must provide a properly functioning real estate intervention market without anomalies. Until then, interventions in this market that protect consumers are justified and in the public interest. That is why in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support such a legal text.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u113	We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Does Mr Jerič want to do it again? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Rudolf Petan? [[No, no, ……]] The government wants a word, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Minister Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your express support and, as I understand it, I hope that this law, as proposed in the last version, will also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13 June. The amendment is tabled under Article 14 and has been tabled by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Would anyone like a word with the amendment to Article 14? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Construction of Objects in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Franc Jurša for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 30th meeting, on 2 June 2011, the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Construction of Buildings, which was sent to the National Assembly by the Government. The government has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should be considered following a reduced procedure, but the College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 29th meeting, 8. 4th this year has decided to be dealt with on a regular basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the Government, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, said that the basic purpose of the proposed law was to narrow down the possibility of building in its own direction and thus remove the institute of work in black and indirectly reduce the possibilities for a grey economy. At the same time, the proposed measures increase safety and follow the principle of the quality of the works that have so far been carried out as construction in their own direction. In the framework of a package of proposals to amend legislation with a view to reducing the grey economy in Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia presented an initiative for the proposed amendment of the Construction Act. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The representative of this service pointed out at a meeting of the Committee that the proposed changes to the legal regime should also provide for an appropriate transitional regime or other measures to secure existing legal relations. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia recalled that the initiative for the proposed amendment had come from a working group to prepare measures for the rehabilitation of construction at the Ministry of Economy. They believe that today’s difficulty in building buildings no longer permits construction in its own direction. Furthermore, experience shows that only a small amount of work has been done without pay. In view of the public's response to the proposed measure, however, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and Space, they drafted an amendment to Article 1 of the bill allowing the construction of simple and non-requisitive facilities in their own direction, the execution of regular investment maintenance works and the construction of less demanding facilities under certain conditions. State Councillor Darko Fras pointed out at a meeting of the Board that the Council of State understands the interests of construction craftsmen, but estimates that the proposed measures will not produce the desired results. Therefore, the State Council does not support the bill. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also opposes the proposed law for similar reasons as the State Council. A similar opinion was expressed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee, by 13 votes in favour and none against, decided that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Construction of Buildings was not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Rok Žarnic, to present the Government's position on the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u118	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! As far as I am concerned, I also agree with the Committee's statements, but you must understand that as a representative of the Government in the negotiations with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the result of these negotiations was this story surrounding the amendment of the Construction Act. As far as the profession is concerned, we can live with a change or a law such as it is or, if someone really wants a real change, it is also our expert opinion that in fact 30 square meters is something that someone without adequate knowledge can build safely, but for larger buildings there are also risks of non-professional construction in self-building. This is my comment as an expert in construction. It is not true that it is a matter of abolishing the possibility of building in its own directing, for this change of law is somehow trying to find an intermediate way. With the current law, we have a provision of 250 m2 of useful area for one-bedroom construction. This proposal, which we are talking about, introduces a threshold of 200 m2 with a gross floor area. The truth of the loving little apartment building goes beyond such a threshold, but Slovenian legislation, which does not lay down rules on the surface of a family member, has another story, because if construction in its own direction means social correction, we can take the Regulation on the allocation of non-profit apartments for rent as a comparison. According to this Regulation, the six-member family would have the largest apartment of 105 m2 and the proposed limit for one-bedroom buildings, which are built in their own direction, is approximately a double area or, say, a social minimum for a 12-member family. Even with such a change – 200 m2 can somehow meet these requirements and the need for self-building as a social element. Construction in its own directing is a Slovenian specialty, as well as a variety of specialities with us. An interesting case is the 1976 earthquake in Sosoča, when the victims themselves rebuilt their homes with the help of the State. The Easter earthquake in 1998 revealed many of the weaknesses of self-building and intervention in a non-professional manner, and the country decided in 1998 that the means of reconstruction would be used more deliberately. All renovations took place through the earthquake office, project documentation, performers and controls. And only with an account could the investor enforce a guarantee. This improved construction and rehabilitation then showed less problems in the next earthquake than before. The problem is that we have a number of construction experts very quickly. This looks just like any quick expert in medical science, including aviation. In fact, construction seems to be such an easy industry that everyone can do it. Therefore, this law sought to make matters a little bit more difficult in this area. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Construction. [[...]] And as I say, as far as our ministry is concerned, the existing law can serve its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When the government came to the National Assembly with this law, we immediately said that we would not support such a law. If memory doesn't deceive me, the first proposal was much more drastic. There was talk of a significantly smaller area that was supposed to be allowed for individual construction of buildings, then we got a new proposal, a compromise that took into account concerns and increased this area to the current 200 m2. But we still don't understand what the difference is between the current law, which allows for a slightly larger area, and now we would limit this area and thus ensure everything that needs to be provided for security issues, solid, high-quality construction even when it comes to individual engagement. As the minister said, it is an eminent tradition in Slovenia, and not only in Slovenia, but I would say just in that region of Europe where an individual is working hard to relieve the country and try to regulate his situation in ways that are more economical for him than for the community. In doing so, legislation governs the approach, the way to individual construction. Individual construction does not mean building on black, does not mean disregarding those required and necessary criteria, which the profession also requires for individual construction to be integrated in a meaningful, operational, functionally functionally in spatial planning. If we also stick to statistics, we will find that individual construction does not actually affect the interest of construction companies, because it is somewhat over a thousand, a thousand 400 individual buildings, 1300 individual buildings per year. So we wouldn't even solve the construction crisis if we passed such a law. What was the point of this proposal? We understand that one part, the partial interest of the craftsmanship group or the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia pressured, demanded that construction be offered a few more opportunities also at the expense of individual construction and the government wanted to provide a positive message to these requirements and thus came to the National Assembly. But here she encountered opposition from all parliamentary groups - coalitions and opposition. In all coordinations, we have made it clear that we will not support this law because we feel that it is unnecessary, non-life, especially at this point in time, it really does not matter. It is necessary to ensure the quality of inspection services, to ensure that construction is carried out in accordance with all the criteria laid down in the legislation and, of course, the government must also ensure that legislation is regulated in this area. Just as we wanted to prevent abuse and black work in construction, even under individual construction; but we do not really need this law right now. We want to maintain this fundamental tradition and the right of our citizens to regulate their living conditions in the most rational way possible, and we expect the government to assist with the necessary legislation and also to provide professional support to all construction workers. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] so that we don't support the law, the government knows this, and it's probably the last chance to say this. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you again very much, Mr Vice President. Minister with co-workers, respectable everyone else! This time my opinion won't be as positive as it probably isn't. I must say, once the government had adopted such a proposal and then referred it to the National Assembly, we were amazed at such a solution. In fact, it is a government proposal that has been literally uncoordinated, illogical, unrealistic and certainly there have been no concrete analyses in the preparation of this novel on how many buildings are still being built in our own direction, and there are no figures that actually speak in favour of this type of construction consuming the work of craftsmen, to encourage black work, etc. In short, there are no valid arguments, nothing more than what Mr Minister has already stated in the introduction that it was some agreement with the chamber that they would go to the government to draft such a law. Surely, because of all this, we cannot agree that such an arrangement would constitute a relaunch of Slovenian construction, which is certainly in the midst of a crisis, and other measures are also needed on the part of the government and on some other sides. We also find it incomprehensible that the behaviour or statements of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which first "forced" such a law, and then in the statements they spoke of thinking so, but a little differently, so that they expected the law, but not the law as it is. That's the style. In this house too, we listen many times: we are for change, we are for marriage, but not for that. I also think that there have been many arguments from the various other chambers that have spoken in favour of the tradition of individual construction and inter-neighbourly assistance, which is still important in the current situation. With all due regard to what the Minister originally said as a government opinion, it was necessary to provide professional construction, that we also have too many cases in Slovenia, when non-professionality caused damage that was not necessary. So, I will not make any other arguments, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that it is possible to achieve better effects already through the consistent implementation of the legislation in force. In particular, the supervision of the construction of facilities, which must be properly carried out by the competent services, in particular inspection services, should be strengthened. This, of course, does not preclude a wide range of changes in legislation in order to further reduce the grey economy in construction. In addition, improvements in the provision of professionally and qualitatively constructed new and reconstructed old buildings of all kinds. However, these proposals must be prepared in a professional and coordinated manner and must also take into account certain social and social features of the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In the DeSUS Group, we do not support the proposal for a law amending the Construction Act. By amending the Construction Act, which is prepared within the framework of the construction rehabilitation measures and on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, it is proposed to abolish the construction of buildings in its own direction of the maximum usable area of 250 m2. At the same time, the possibility of building firehouses, mountain houses in its own direction is maintained, but the maximum size of 250 m2 is now 350 m2. The applicant assesses that, by limiting the possibility of building buildings in its own direction to the construction of simple and non-requisitive facilities and to the implementation of regular and investment maintenance works, it would reduce the scope of the grey economy and help to strengthen the economy in terms of the rehabilitation of construction. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has been working for years to put an end to or limit construction in its own direction, which, according to our assessment, cannot solve the construction crisis in any way. In the parliamentary group, we assess and understand the interest of construction craftsmen in order to limit their work to a black and grey economy. At the same time, however, we estimate that the proposal for a novel does not have a major financial impact in the construction sector and the desired results in limiting work to a black and grey economy, as it is often the craftsmen who work in black or without an account or do not do enough quality work. The fact is that it is a bill that has upset the Slovenian public because potential builders or investors often do not have enough funding to afford registered operators, so they prefer to build themselves according to their capabilities and time. Those with sufficient resources will now choose to build with the help of craftsmen or registered builders. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also opposes this bill and considers that the proposed amendment of the law would have an impact on the poorer economic situation of farmers who build buildings for the purposes of agriculture in their own direction, with their own work with the help of friends, relatives and due to lower investment costs and the management of the Slovenian countryside. Because of fragmentation, Slovenian farms are now financially very weak, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also points out the strict criteria for construction in its own direction. Although agricultural buildings have a large floor area, it is a relatively non-requisitive construction. However, according to our assessment, the arguments of the proposer and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia that the proposed measure also enhances the safety of buildings and the quality of buildings do not hold serious judgment, since the legislation already in force provides for the possibility of building in its own direction, provided that building supervision is ensured. If construction controls are not carried out, this is due to non-implementation of legislation and poor supervision of inspection services. As has already been said, we do not support the bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mag. Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for amendments to the Construction Act was immediately rejected by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and, as is unusual in our country, by the Committee on Environment and Space as the home working body of the National Assembly. The latter unanimously rejected the proposed amendments and decided that the proposal for a law amending the Construction Act was not suitable for further consideration. It is important to welcome the sound reasonable conclusion of the coalition Members that the proposed changes would in no way solve the problems of construction or of the grey economy in Slovenia. The proposal for a law whose content supports the abolition of the provision of services without invoices makes people needlessly nervous and disturbed by the planned repression and restriction of neighbourhood aid. In the opinion of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the proposed amendment of the law would also have an impact on the poorer economic situation of farmers who build buildings for the purposes of own-direction agriculture. It is also wrong to think of the proposed amendment of the law to increase the safety of buildings and the quality of buildings by means of the proposed measure, since both of these conditions — both safety and quality — are already taken into account in the applicable legislation, which provides for the possibility of construction in its own direction, provided that construction supervision is ensured. The solutions to the prevention of black work in construction, according to the Slovenian National Party, constitute, in the first place, a measure to carry out quality, professional and conscientious control over the construction of all types of buildings and to strengthen the work of the construction inspection. The proposal concludes that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Law is not suitable for further consideration, and we will support the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me put it briefly, so I repeat the words in the introduction itself. As far as the Group of Non-Aligned Members is concerned, the old law is good enough to enforce and we regret that it will not be adopted, we will also vote against it. We regret, however, that we must deal with such laws, which have no reason whatsoever and which have no possibility of being adopted. In fact, this law is one of the laws that can be an example of outside-encouraged laws that are uncritically summarized, at least fundamental ideas that can also be of good purpose, but then cannot count on support in the event of bad enforcement. The reasons that have been stated that we are able to understand from the material we have received have been cited as measures to save the economic sector, and I hope that at least those who follow our real social situation so far know that this is not the reason because it was already too late, and that even if such a law were adopted, of course, it would not have been nearly anything to help with our construction activity being put back on a healthy footing. So that one of the reasons goes away, of course, according to our understanding. The second reason was more concrete, also a more realistic reason, called the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which, with its good organisation and actions, managed to convince several ministries to sum up their ideas, some of which have also been realized, some have already fallen to the referendums and some are now falling into the procedure in the National Assembly. I say this because I believe that, as far as the initiatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises are concerned, it would also be worth thinking about all the consequences rather than just sending them to the procedure and to the fire in the National Assembly. The weakness of these proposals is a poor willingness, accepting very quickly, without any particular consideration, even in the explanations we find no doubts or any real explanation of the articles, but rather a more concise summary of the articles. We fear, however, that, like any other law that has already gone through the procedure and has been adopted, if it had been adopted, it would not have contributed much more to the social situation than to the less created real values and that those who are now somehow helping themselves in this way, which we are not defending, would have contributed to the improvement of the social situation, so that they too would be slightly smaller and that the need for public sector or public treasury assistance in the form of transfers would have been so much greater. The goals set by the proposer were listed in several indents, one of which was to narrow down the possibility of building in its own directing. We do not believe in this nor do we think that, as was proposed in the original form, it was good. And even in the current new form, if the amendments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were followed, this would only be the approval of some concessions so that the law would not fall. Another of the objectives was to reduce the grey economy. We estimate that in this way it is impossible to reduce, those who have proposed this or those who are in the circle of proposers of this law are those who are carriers of a large part of the grey economy in the construction sector, whether they are employees who continue their work this afternoon, or whether they are those who are registered and they are doing just as much in the afternoon on Saturday and Sunday, but of course without bills, which does not change in terms of limiting black employment and the grey economy. So if we look back [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] when we decide whether to support or not, we simply say that the law was bad, that it was poorly prepared, and that it cannot therefore have the support of a group of unrelated Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc will postpone the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, all present, welcome! Social Democrats do not support this law because we do not agree to abolish the possibility of self-building. In fact, we were surprised at the government proposal and also at the committee where the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia defended this law, we were not satisfied with their unconvincing reasons. At the same time, this Chamber also led the debate on how to adopt a ban on the grey economy through the referendum. So the thing is diametrically different. We are convinced that in such constructions the role of inspection services, which also pursue the grey economy, payment without an account and more, is important. Thus, these services must work that the overseers are also responsible for the quality and safety of construction in the part to be supervised and that the financial crisis accelerates the form of construction so that you can help yourself, where it is possible to build according to the phases of the funds that the builder has, etc. If anyone thought that this law or this prohibition of self-building would save construction companies like SCT, which was stolen and even worse, that I would not explain the situation here, we read every day in newspapers or that we would prevent 1300 individual buildings, of course all of this would not solve the construction operation. I am sure that only the serious work of the Ministry can save it by expediting municipal spatial plans and proposing to the Minister that he sign at least five spatial plans each week. This would encourage construction on the ground and improve the economic situation of construction companies, but here I do not mean SCT, but many good little builders. Social Democrats do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Even in this marriage, we could say that he is unhappy, but even that he is unnecessary, as we have heard today. The current Law on the Construction of PGI-1 Buildings in 79th Article deals with the issue of construction in its own directing and provides that an individual or a company in its own directing can build a simple facility, but also a less demanding facility, provided that it is the largest one-storey facility with a maximum of one basement and a possible mansard above the floor, that such a facility is a separate building for its own purposes, an agricultural building intended for the purposes of a family farm, a mountain house, a firehouse or another small building intended to carry out a social activity, that its useful surface together with a mansard does not exceed 250 m2 of useful area and that it is provided for construction control under the provisions of the law. As part of the preparation of the construction rehabilitation measures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the Ministry of the Interior to prepare and implement concrete measures on the basis of the report of the working group on the preparation of construction rehabilitation measures in Slovenia. On the basis of the proposed measures, a proposal was drawn up, but it is very unfortunate, as we have already found out, to stop the construction in its own direction, the maximum useful area of 250 m2 towards the construction of simple and non-requisitive facilities and the execution of maintenance works in its own direction. The proposal to amend Article 79 restricts the possibility of building in its own direction and, in the opinion of the contractor, restricts and reduces the possibility of a grey economy. We all find that we wouldn't have won much. In the SDS Group, we therefore oppose the amendment of this law in the proposed direction, as it brings unacceptable restrictions to people in a very sensitive time. Nor did the Council of State support the changes in this law. We must be aware that the tradition of self-building in Slovenia is deeply rooted in people and during the economic crisis enables those people with lower incomes to improve living standards. Many families have seen in self - building and still see an opportunity to improve the situation. However, better - standing individuals have already been building with external construction contractors. In doing so, it should also be stressed that it is not to be remembered that both a self-built building and a residential house would be problematic about quality or that there would be problems with statistics. This has not yet happened, but this has happened in renowned companies with multiple controls and with reputable individuals. It should be pointed out, however, that such a law is strongly directed against rural areas. The fact is that it is not a measure to resolve the grey economy, as it would still be possible to play through construction companies despite this novelty. The indication of better construction quality is also questionable, since the new law would also give the possibility of building buildings up to 50 m2 without special building control. We can see that this was a retrial to enact a very harmful law that would take on small people at the expense of the State, but at the same time it would not solve any anomaly that was cited as the reason for the adoption of the new law. We therefore support the proposal put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee on the Environment and Space, and we agree that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the draft decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item – Discussion on the reply of the Minister for Environment and Space Dr. Roko Lightener to the business question of Aloys' property in connection with the foundation of agricultural land on the third development axis, in view of the rapid highway of Šentrupert-Vell. At its 28th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnic, to the question of Member Aloise Posedel on the construction of agricultural land on the third development axis or the rapid road of Šentrupert-Velenje. I give the floor to Mr Aloise Posedel for further explanation of the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I have asked the Minister for a third time about the construction of agricultural land or the placement of the route of the Šentrupert-Velenje fast road into the room, and obviously this topic is also of interest to other Members and Members, and a proposal has also been made to hold a debate in the National Assembly, and I am sure that this debate is a good one for at least two reasons. The first is the destruction on the planned route of large areas of agricultural land, many of which are the best agricultural land in the Savina Valley in Slovenia, and that we are witnessing this fact at the time when the National Assembly also adopted the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Lands, with which the State and the Ministry of State want to protect the Slovenian land, which is one of the lowest in Europe in terms of working areas per inhabitant. Despite the fact that all along, practically before the start of the route placement process, it is noted that the areas to be destroyed are significantly larger than those represented by the Ministry or trainees, things are moving forward and that only recently and at the last meeting the Minister has also declared the number 105 hectares of agricultural areas, and so far there have been only about 20 hectares in the air. Another aspect that I believe is necessary and important is that of spatial legislation itself, which is certainly not good and which has problems for investors, contractors, even the Ministry itself, but obviously the legislation is such that it allows all activities to flow on a formal basis irrespective of their comments, but also regardless of their apparent incompetence. At the previous meeting, the Minister himself estimated that the Commission, which reviewed the Ministry's functioning, had reached a conclusion that the procedure under the applicable rules had been properly carried out as regards the ILO. This is what we are most concerned about, that a ministry can freely carry out the procedures planned under its competence, and that it does not take account of what is happening in another area, in particular in this case in the field of environmental, agricultural, economic, construction or other technical aspects. And in order for today's debate to be as good as possible, I also requested the Ministry of Environment and Space for various studies, analyses, audits, all that is important and related to this route, and received a written response to the National Assembly that the Ministry of Environment and Space opened a website where everything that has been done can be looked at. By the way, the government also adopts laws, and we get them in writing, not just by sending them out to be published on the websites. Thus, the last sentence of the letter, covering 18 sentences, states that the ILO does not have an internal audit of Darsa on the value of the project, and is likely to continue to operate with data of 198 million, although it is already publicly known that this project will cost close to EUR 400 million. So at the beginning of the process, we have data on 20 hectares of hops up to 105 hectares of destroyed hops and we have an estimated value of over 300 or almost 400 million from 198 million at the beginning. The second problem is the spatial plan, and that is also what the minister pointed out at the previous meeting. This is the spatial order of the municipality of Braslovča, where we know that by transporting the congregation brought itself and investors into a very difficult situation, probably the ministry, because they were building where they were not supposed to. So much for a start and then more for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic, for further explanation of my reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I must express great satisfaction that today we have the opportunity to discuss this subject, because this topic is much broader than just putting a road into space. This topic shows, as we will see, some situation in society as well as the criteria and criteria that adapt to the current needs of individuals or individual stakeholders. The controversy regarding the proposed most appropriate variant at the section of the A-1 Velenje-South motorway lasts since October 2007, when a study of variants with the proposal was prepared with the most appropriate variant, which since the connection of Šentrupert on the A-1 motorway across the municipality of Braslovče and Šmartno ob Paki comes to the area of Šoštanjaj and Velenje, where it connects the area of the Gorenje factory. Since the conclusion of the study, the proposed options have been the subject of discussion, in particular the attention of the Civil Initiative of Braslovče, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Regional Economic Chamber of Celje and also the Member of Parliament, is interested in this issue and we can therefore discuss a little more today. The main arguments, as we have heard, are the level of investment and intervention on agricultural surfaces. The expert-based variant studies were reviewed and corrected following the reviews from October 2007 to March 2008. Meetings were then held with the protective departments, with representatives of all congregations. On the basis of their comments and proposals, optimizations were made in the area of the municipality of Braslovča, in particular in terms of the maximum possible withdrawal from agricultural areas. In April 2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was informed of the proposed most appropriate variant, and in September 2008 the process of placement of the northern part of this axis took place further. For the section Šentrupert–Velenje south, Velenje south–Slovenia Gradec south and Slovenj Gradec south–Dravograd, detailed professional backgrounds were developed and ideas were developed until the stage of the public decomposition of the completed draft of the DN and for the section through the Mežiški valley, according to the decision of the Government, the study variants are repeated. In the last four years, the ILO, alone or in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and Dars, has responded to a number of questions from Members, the media and the public concerned. We participated in public debates and field tours. We represented the work done in the media, including on websites in addition to everything. All materials, both professional backgrounds and reviews and key answers to the questions raised are, as I have already mentioned, published on the ILO page, because these are sometimes extremely extensive documents, thick documents, I don't know if it's worth printing, because today we all use computers and it's worth printing some extracts. We also presented our work and its results to the European Commission and the Slovenian Commission to prevent corruption. In April 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established an inter-resort working group to evaluate the procedures so far in the spatial placement of the state road from joining the A1 motorway at Šentrupert to joining Velenje south. The working group is chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Transport and members are representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and three external experts. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set a deadline for the final report to be drawn up on 15 May, the report has not yet been submitted for consideration, but its preparation is in the final stage and I can tell you that we will not know from this report that the last four years have been wrong, but we can talk about whether the decision in 2008 was correct or not. About 20 acres. The story of 20 hectares is a story of manipulation. In the face of my statement, which I made and which stated that the variant F6 and F7 differed by 20 hectares, it turned out by skillfully cutting the statement that I said it was 20 hectares. Those who are in good judgment, who know that we probably know something, can estimate that the number has been manipulated. About other numbers later on when there's a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u138	Once again, a warm welcome to all! The third development axis has been one of the priorities for the further development of the Republic of Slovenia for several years and represents a very important inter-regional and inter-state link, which is crucial for the development of some of the developmental regions: Koroške, Savinjska, Zasavska, Posavska and Bela Krajina. In the implementation of this project, too much time has been lost and Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are afraid that the country's indecisiveness and the various civil initiatives motivated in one way or another may further delay these procedures, which will cause the greatest harm to the economy, which is in areas where the third development axis or the rapid link due to the distance of traffic should already be so uncompetitive. The idea of a third development axis, as the main inter-regional corridor, was already set out in the 1974 Slovenian Regional Spatial Plan. It is also an integral part of the national programme for the construction of motorways, which was adopted in early 2004. A key document that clearly defined the third development axis was the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia in 2004. A key strategic document, part of which is also a project for the comprehensive development of the third development axis, is also the State Development Programme 2007-2013. The process of placing the north section of the third development axis, which will take place from the border with Austria to the A1 Šentilj-Koper motorway, started in 2004. In the framework of the preparation of the national site plan, appropriate variant studies were carried out by 2008 and appropriate environmental reports were prepared. The proposed route, which has recently been the subject of violent responses from both civil initiatives and some experts, and foresees the rapid road between Velenje and Šentrupert, is considered crucial for the further development of the Svalje and Upper Savinja Valley, whose distance from the rapid links is already beginning to be taxed. Successful companies that represent the economic driving of this area, such as Gorenje in the Shaleška Valley and BSH House appliances and KLS Ljubno in the Upper Savina Valley, because of the country's indecision in building the envisaged section of the fast road, are already considering moving certain programmes elsewhere, to more accessible locations, because the transport distance of the area where they operate poses a serious threat to their competitiveness. Companies already have a huge income drop due to the current situation. And any extension of the status quo, delaying procedures for the construction of a fast road in this section can seriously endanger the jobs of thousands of employees who are directly and indirectly dependent on these companies. The blackest scenario could lead to a major wave of unemployment, and no one would want to take responsibility for this situation. In addition, the development of SAŠA in the region depends mainly on the development of tourism, which still has a huge untapped potential here, but this potential remains rather untapped due to transport distance and poor road infrastructure. We are not opposed to new analyses that would further define all aspects: functional, spatial, environmental, economic and adequate financial evaluation of the various variants, but point out that, in no way, procedures should be extended to allow the adoption of the State Spatial Plan and the construction of a fast road in this section to move further to the future. The fact is that each proposed fast road route will destroy part of the agricultural land and reach into the lives of the inhabitants in the area envisaged for the installation of this fast road, so it is utopian to expect that people in other areas with open arms and smiles will be waiting for construction machines on their mouths. Civil initiatives will also be organised elsewhere to oppose certain solutions. This is the legitimate right of every individual who is not opposed by the Members of our Group, but in such a project must be removed from the mold, from private interests and take into account, in particular, the public interest and the positive consequences that this brings to the whole society. There is a high probability that the construction of a fast road will start early on the south leg of the third development axis, although activities on the north leg have started soon after the adoption of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party appeal to all ministries, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, not to delay more procedures and to do everything possible to ensure that the State Spatial Plan for this section of the third development axis is adopted as soon as possible, as the saga around this section drags on for too long. The economy will not wait indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Agricultural land is a source of food production and a strategic level of food security. At the same time, the desire to build the best agricultural land is so great that we can barely control it. It is precisely because of the inefficient system for the protection of agricultural land that we adopted at the previous meeting a new Law on Agricultural Lands to allow for this protection. That agricultural land is not sufficiently protected by the statistics that Slovenia had 561 thousand hectares of agricultural land in use in 1991 and that at the end of 2009 only 468 thousand more. The range of the best agricultural land, these are fields and gardens, has decreased from 195 to 175 thousand hectares. In the DeSUS Group, we are also concerned about the growing trend of uncontrolled soils as well as the growth of agricultural land, and we therefore agree that agricultural land must be protected at least as well as protected water and air. We believe that with such modest self-sustainment Slovenia simply cannot afford the additional loss of the best agricultural land, such as the land near Savina Valley, where the construction of connections from the A1 motorway from Šentrupert to Velenje and Slovenj Gradec is envisaged. The route of the road is located in the middle of the Savinja Valley by Braslovč, where many of the best agricultural land in the 1st category will be destroyed by possible construction. It is well known that civil initiative has been pointing out since 2007 that the proposed section of the future fast road is the worst solution and that there are options that are spatial, transport and economically more efficient. They have also organised several peaceful protests to alert the competent services to the inappropriateness of the route. Their opinion is also supported by various experts, such as representatives of agricultural teachers and experts, who have also sent a call to the government to destroy agricultural land. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that the Interdepartmental Working Group, composed of the Transport, Environmental and Agriculture Ministers, will be audited and reviewed as soon as possible by external experts, as well as by all the procedures so far in the selection of the motorway. The Commission will propose to all three ministers the most appropriate solution, which we hope will be one that will also be acceptable to civil initiative. In the parliamentary group, we expect the government and the competent ministry to adopt rational and sustainable solutions and to decide that this important motorway leg will be adequately positioned with as little intervention as possible on quality agricultural land. At the same time, we expect both the government and all three competent ministries to implement new and sustainable ways of managing space and land, which also allows for the recently adopted amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to recall, in the introductions, the previously agreed and planned third development axis and the urgency of implementing as quickly as possible the appropriate road link between the regions of Koroška and Bela Krajina in accordance with the decisions adopted by the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the procedure for the preparation of the State Spatial Plans, which would allow the north part of the third development axis to be placed in space and the drafter of the State Spatial Plan has ensured that he has prepared an optimized proposal for the most appropriate variants of the solution. The fact is that the Spatial Planning Act in the selection phase does not provide for any public discussion and also the municipal position of the proposed variant is not binding on the contractor or investor of the planned spatial arrangement. Of course, informal public discussions with space regulators and the public concerned are not prohibited; they may even be useful, as they can also contribute to the best possible design of the spatial plan. Regrettably, too often in such cases, things get complicated and the consequences are undoubtedly harmful to the development of many local communities as well as to regions as a whole. It is understandable that it is not possible to take into account all the comments, views, opinions and suggestions, as they may often oppose, exclude, but can also be inconceivable or have unacceptable backgrounds - many different speculations about the reselling of agricultural land, which in the Republic of Slovenia is undoubtedly a profitable business, can also give rise to corruption, many times with political connotations. But this is probably not the main purpose of the debate today, but it would be more reasonable to agree on a binding agreement on the necessity of the final installation of the third development axis or the road link route, and to understand this as the real willingness of the State to allow the new road link to further develop the whole area of the third development axis. Unfortunately, from a narrower local perspective, it will never be possible to find the best perfect solution. However, it is necessary to reach an agreement on the variant that it gives and is justified by the profession, because as soon as they get involved in policy planning, including local, every time ministers and speculators, we are urgently in the situation that we are in today. The victims are affected in Koroška, White Krajina, and other affected regions. The main culprits and actors are, in any case, ministers in the competent departments, such as agricultural, environmental, transport and others. Unfortunately, many times the importance of this issue is not taken seriously, unfortunately they do not understand how important it is to realize the third development axis as a regional development backbone whose main objective is to maintain and develop the economic potentials of an area in which the transport route is placed and not only to solve pressing transport problems, and therefore the most appropriate option is to take place in valley areas, relatively close to more important urban settlements, just around it and connects to the local transport network and also to the connections and links of five Slovenian regions that are all behind the Slovenian average. It is logical, however, that it will not be possible to achieve development objectives in the affected regions without adequate transport links and to rely on the loss of certain agricultural areas. Because studies have shown that with the decommissioning of the road in the back, it will not be possible to achieve the desired and necessary efficiency of the new road connection. And that we are not talking about as a result of the great irritations of the project and many other impacts on the environment and interventions in the structure of the space. And when we argue about the loss of a few ten hectares of agricultural land, while at the same time we tolerate the cultivation and destruction of thousands of hectares of land across Slovenia, we forget about other branches of the economy in the region and it is quite unacceptable that they do not listen to it, because it is the bread they give to people in the region. Thus, unfortunately, they are happening in the past also in my region, in Prekmurje, which, among other things, has deteriorated greatly in the past due to inadequate transport links and has been lagging behind in development. But we all feel the consequences today. They are catastrophic for Prekmurje, both economically, socially and demographically. And the same story is happening today in Koroška, White Landscape, and elsewhere. We should be aware that everyone in charge of decision-making, and in particular some ministers and every time the Slovenian Government, should be aware that without appropriate transport links, there is already a problem of moving production capacity from the region to other locations, even abroad. But the consequences will be the same as we experienced in Prekmurje. First of all, increased social poverty and an unacceptable decline in economic development. In any event, economic interests must be given due effect and conditions for development. Unfortunately, our competent ministers are obviously unable to understand such arguments and the strategic development objectives of Koroška, the White landscape, the other regions. On the outside, they like to show their principled understanding and willingness to listen to the people, but they do, unfortunately, absolutely nothing. If it's a beautiful day, beautiful weather, they gather, take each other with their car to Koroška, as it was April this year, listen to the findings of a civil initiative and representatives of local communities, find that in any case they will have to count on the loss of about 100 hectares of land. Then they went to lunch and, at a relaxed friendly conversation, weighed the arguments for the planned route. Finally, they agreed to give the civil initiative and the local community the right to comment and request and to make some clear observations in public. Minister Žarnic thus pointed out that all additional requirements would result in a shift in construction time and that it was the responsibility of the inhabitants of the region to block the development of the region and that this period would not be extended because of the poor part of the Ministry of Environment and Space, but because of the demands of the inhabitants of Koroška. It's really amazing! The situation is entirely the responsibility of the Korosci themselves and in no way the Ministers and the Slovenian Government. Even more remarkable was the finding of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Židan, who believes that it is necessary to look back at the findings and opinions of the profession, which we can understand that he has failed to look at them and that he does not know them. That's amazing. As usual, however, he did not forget to point out that as an agricultural minister he must ensure that food production increases but does not decrease. For, in other words, and among the lines, it may happen that the Slovenes, because of the planned road in Koroška and the construction of about 100 hectares of land, will suffer and suffer hunger. It's a shame Fran Milczynski can't hear this, he'd probably write some more Buttals. Similar findings have also been made by the Minister of Transport, who, in other words, has a slightly more optimistic view of the large number of doubts that need to be verified, but which are not expected to significantly delay the start of the construction. The maximum, however, was the need for the public to choose the route, taking into account the transport technical aspect, construction costs, environmental aspects and interventions to agricultural land. In the Slovenian National Party, we have a feeling that he has seen expert studies and a state spatial plan all over the place once. In short, Korosci and Belokranjci do not need to be afraid of you, the mentioned "trio Fantasticus" found that you need a new road, that you need to look back, to find out the facts, and in particular you need to provide them with another term in the next elections, because the road is very long and it is impossible to start building within one term of four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! On such a day it is also fun to be in Parliament and it is right and good to say things in such a wicked way that have many truths and lots of salt. It is therefore right that we take advantage of the debate on Mr Žarnic's reply in order to try certain things that have not worked properly in this country for years to come. Today, in Slovenia, putting every facility into space is a problem - let alone highways. Even when we build children’s playgrounds, sidewalks, or smaller sections of roads in congregations, there is always someone who tries to get something into the bike so that it does not roll fast enough. And here's the first message to ask how the system works. On the one hand, the profession is often subjected to various pressures on the one hand and on the other. On the other hand, we want investment, we want projects, we want to build, we want to work. If we look at how our administration works on a national level or in an administrative unit, then one sees that this is exactly why it doesn't move anywhere. Yes, even the municipalities, let alone the state, for the millions of projects we stand in a row of six months, a year before, of course, ladies and gentlemen in administrative units coming from other areas, not from construction projects, that they are willing to breathe "yes". Then, that life is even more interesting and more varied, there are civil initiatives here. Civil initiatives in this country, especially at the Ministry of Environment and Space, are sometimes not seen as someone who gives a point of view, which gives a point of view. But they have stood up as'super-legislators' over all the laws and many times your ministry, Mr. Minister, allows them and gives them status, which is not in the constitution or in the legislation they simply do not have. Here, too, we need to have the right feeling and the right measure: the whole bunch is environmental projects, not just those roads that fall directly in the area of civil initiatives. My colleague Presecnik said that the installation of this important and necessary facility, nowhere – either left, right or south of this route – would not come upon a wave of excitement. The profession must draw a route that is the best, optimal, and, if possible, how to protect agricultural land. But the old people's proverb is that we also make it hard to do it if we don't break the eggs first; without it, we just can't do it and it won't work. Once the profession has chosen the optimal solution, it must be defended with determination, clarity and transparency. What we read in Slovenian media about the adoption of spatial plans in the municipality of Braslovča, which calls for action and after certain measures. It was an abuse of the system, and they may have had something to add to it, or they may have noticed jobs at various ministries. Such mistakes, such anomalies, must no longer be repeated to all of us in the future. As we accept spatial plans in Slovenia, it is again one of these sad stories. The procedures that should be short, robust and effective have already undergone legislative changes several times in recent years, even before the previous law in practice even began to work, we have put in place a new one and then that the measure has been full, this story has been repeated with the last law, and every legislation in this area is less life-spanning, more long-lasting and more complicated. But if then the bureaucrats do it also in ministries that are not at the first level in the ministry, not at the second, but at the third and fourth levels – says the small gods – then it is no wonder that the system does not move anywhere. Inside your ministry, Mr. Minister, who is a huge system, you have jobs and you have people who have not settled down, as they say in the language of the people, besides God, but above him. To allow certain services to grant no concessions for the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in a few years, because someone has a special opinion. That hydroelectric power plants that have operated for decades have not been able to pay the concession fee due to an administrative obstacle, because they were old and unreasonable, they have lost their operating license to put a power plant now under pressure on the same button in line with the other 400 power plants waiting for the concession and, of course, to drive oil from the Arab countries and from where. That these people can't be proved to benefit from all the education, all the sick, all the vacations, and those who build projects are humbly waiting for them to come back to work. And I'm asking you to see how the Ministry's work goes, how long the roles are in the hearing. Another ridiculous case. We have built a cleaning plant with European state resources. From January to June, the Ministry did not agree to the price, because it is said that a gentleman has so much work because he is so burdened, and that means a hundred thousand euros in damage to the municipal budget, because, of course, the costs of operating the cleaning plant should be borne by those who benefit from the service. And also on this story is the inefficiency and the great need to blow up the entire ministry in order to become operational, industriously aware that their employees are being paid by these citizens and by these citizens and that they are not themselves intended. We've gone a little far from putting this route in place, but the problems are always the same everywhere. We are dealing with any problem: on the one hand, different opinions, too slow, inefficient administration, civil initiatives, and then indecisive and separate policies – and this is the measure that happiness is perfect. However, I am glad that at least in the part of the story we have made progress, we have succeeded all of us with great agreement, with great consensus, in adopting the Agricultural Lands Act, where we are protecting agricultural land to the greatest extent possible, such cases have been in the twenty years of Slovenia's history. I am sure that we have adopted a relatively solid law and I am very interested in where those who, as always, know how to find loopholes in marriages will appear. As far as you're concerned and this road is concerned. The tasks of the Ministry and the co-workers are clear, but it is also the responsibility of local communities and those who complain about the projects. Earlier, one of my fellow Members told me to suggest that until they agree, we should spend this money on state roads elsewhere in Slovenia. I think that would be a bad solution. The third development axis of this area needs blood and the time is to "infuse" our common sense, to tighten our sleeves and place this road in a space with the best goals and goals of the profession, not to take account of each individual neighbor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! If we are talking about the development axis routes and in this case the third development axis in particular, it is necessary to highlight not only this economic aspect, which we have already heard today, for the development of Velenje and the whole area in this backdrop, but also the fact that this project and the placement of these projects are crucial for whether or not Slovenian construction could survive the period of construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it was also considered that the extremely strong investment cycle, which was intended to build motorways, was somehow attempting to be extended to build development axes. And here was a very large task for all governments involved in drafting legislation, which should allow for more rapid accommodation in space all over again. And when we radically changed spatial legislation in Slovenia for the first time, we changed it to finally have new, modern spatial legislation in Slovenia to accelerate development. This legislation has not yet worked well in practice, the next government has already had its own view of the development of the country and its view on how it is possible to place investments in the space as quickly as possible, which has resulted mainly in the fact that all those who are actually engaged in putting routes into space often lack clear starting points and clear grounds for rapid and effective solutions. And this has often been fostered by such or different views or by the group’s opinions on how to approach a particular problem. In fact, too little was derived from the existing experience and knowledge that we have already had quite well studied, but then it did not happen that it was also transposed into the content of legislation. What seems important to me especially in the case of this section, if we make a comparison with the recent debate in the National Assembly, as well as the placement of this route into space and with today's situation, is a particularly important conclusion, because it is obviously the wish of someone, whether it be a civil initiative or an interest group, to show that two ministries in one government actually see differently the location of this route in the space, specifically the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Space, and thus to cause some new conflict and some new ineffective action to place this route in the space as soon as possible. So, if we take some assessment from the last debate, it seems to me that it is extremely important that these dilemmas are no longer in fact and that both the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food have decided, as well as as as the responsible road construction department of the Ministry of Transport, to actually eliminate all the dilemmas about whether it is 77 hectares or 20 agricultural land and so on. So this already shows that we can talk about the fact that there will be fewer and fewer opportunities for someone in the future to oppose putting this fast road into space as soon as possible. Although the Minister has already indicated somehow what will be the response of this interdepartmental group, which also has external experts, that in fact it is not so much a problem what has been done during this period, but that it has fallen in 2008 the decision that the most appropriate route is the one going from the direction of Šentrupert and then towards the highway. And here are really just the professional grounds for those who must follow, not least in the National Assembly, when we have adopted a new Law on Agricultural Lands and we are aware that intervention, excessive interference on agricultural land is certainly not the solution that we are defending in Slovenia, but even less in the National Assembly and that all the conditions that this ministry is also giving us in order to reach the most effective option that will be acceptable both to agriculture and, finally, to the economy and to the people in this area, who are certainly the ones far from missing this traffic. By welcoming the activities that have resolved these dilemmas in the Social Democrats Group, we hope that today's debate in the National Assembly will help in particular not to give rise to any new dilemma as to whether it was a decision to choose where to put the option into space, but that we are really coming from a debate in the National Assembly to a final decision as soon as possible, and then also to design this road, because we are finally helping the Slovenian economy, and that we can also do so through investment to the many who are facing an extremely difficult situation today, to relaunch their businesses and try to gain work on this investment. We expect from today's debate in the Group of Social Democrats that there will be no new dilemma, but that this will, in particular, move towards a final solution, and we hope that this will be the same for all those who will continue to discuss our position today on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We supported the proposal for this debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we believe it is an extremely important matter. I am talking about the work of Šentrupert-Velenje, which is part of the third development axis, which then continues further towards Koroška in the Mežiški valley. It is true that this fast road is placed in the program or all the programs that we can say are possible, but it must be admitted that it is relatively late. But that doesn't even matter now, this area needs a road connection to the highway cross. It should be pointed out that such an infrastructure facility is important for development and for the normal connection with other infrastructure veins in Slovenia, otherwise development stops and this area we are talking about has certainly stopped in development. At the same time, the issue of the protection of agricultural areas is also emerging. And the route, the real location of such an emergency facility, is one that must certainly find a compromise between economic development and the protection of agricultural land. Such accommodation is certainly an interdepartmental project, which is certainly part of the Ministry of Environment and Space, then the Ministry responsible for agriculture, for the economy, for transport, for transport, but probably would have found something else, and it is also an inter-neighbourly cooperation, because this area is a border area with Austria. But the fact is, for this area, Koroška and Saviniska are called not to let anyone go, or to offend anyone, we cannot exactly say that, as a whole, that it is well-developed, except perhaps an individual city, so construction is so much more important. In doing so, it must be acknowledged that it is true, as the Minister has said, that the current situation is the result of some of the conditions in society and this is the widest. Surely this is a state of fruit, I will say, some policy of the building lobby, which is with all possible bargaining on the division of work, about how much work someone will do, if they also agreed on prices, let us leave it alone, but if it was a negotiation, that is not good, then here certainly is the placement in the space for which the Ministry of the Environment is responsible. For both state and municipal spatial plans have certainly stopped and nothing is moving here. Certainly nothing moves, at least what is done is irrelevant compared to what should be done. My predecessors have already said a lot about this and there are virtually the same perceptions, the same perceptions, we all have about the same information. Surely it does not serve as a good solution that we already have a lot of options at the beginning. The moment we have two, three variants, and when we decide which one is right, then those on Option 1 who lose some land say, "No, better one is Option 2, go there." Those who lose something there say, "Well, better is the third one, go there, and when we get to Option 3, they say, "Better is the first one." It is said that the moment we offer the variants, we already know that we are in a dead end and that we have given a bone that will be difficult to swallow or that there is no meat on. I don't think we learned anything from the case of the fast road through the Vipava Valley when about 30 variants were made. This lobby, which prepared these variants, served fat, and people argued for 10 meters of road to the left or to the right, and then there came a variant, maybe even the one that's not the best, but it doesn't matter. The fact is that this is a typical example of how we should not pretend to offer a bunch of variants in the beginning. In these circumstances, the building lobby was concerned with ownership, and less with how it would work and certainly not to ignore the fact that construction lobbying is not stupid, and it seems more appropriate for them to make fewer miles of roads at a higher price than more roads at the same price. Surely it is, then, a very welcome civil initiative that somehow prevents or prevents the start of construction because money is being used anyway. Interestingly, civil initiatives always occur when the state does not want to do something or wants to postpone something because they are not the right situation because there is no money or because someone else is using it. So it's probably in this case too, but I won't talk if the government isn't real, and then there's civil initiatives as much as you want, for every dog figure and for every sock that needs to be built, there's a civil initiative. It would also be good to recall the bureaucracy that has already been mentioned today, which has fantastic ideas on how not to work. If so much energy were to put this bureaucracy into how to beat something, save it, instead of how we wouldn't do it, then we'd have it all figured out, but that's the way it is. This should take into account almost the fact that this area, which we are talking about, is almost faster to reach Ljubljana through Austria than on our roads. And if I remember that there's a quarry there where I know that cops who charge penalties, if you drive a mile faster, up and down, don't be surprised if the situation in this area is the way it is. I have not yet been able to drive in this area without meeting in both directions the police control that does what it does with the radar. Next. This road connection is certainly extremely important for Velenje, as an important industrial centre, and certainly also for Mežiško and Drava Valley, which are somehow cut off from other road infrastructures in Slovenia. We could say that the economy in this area, as well as elsewhere in Slovenia, is expecting construction, while recognizing the need to protect the agricultural land. The task of planners is to find the right compromise, which means building this fast road at the slightest loss of quality land. Surely we must not neglect the growth of the land. We talk a lot about land use, we also talk a lot about growth, but if we put it together, then we can find that we are growing more land than we are using, especially if we are talking about urgent projects like a fast road. If the land is growing, it means that it used to be agricultural. We're not going to say that the forest is growing. The forest can be magnified. And this must also be taken into account when talking about the use of agricultural land for anything else. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that our attitude towards the country will have to be changed. The fact is, we have a country. A lot of people don't realize that we have a country, that we have to lead it, that we have to develop it, and that we have to look at it wider, look across our fence, it's higher than it is. In doing so, we must be aware that running from one good tree to another in the big forest does not do us much good, but we must adopt a strategy for the development of the entire forest. If we take care of the development of the entire forest, then our spruce, which is the largest and most beautiful, will develop well. Because otherwise, problems can arise. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the idea and plans that this beginning of the construction of the third development axis will begin as soon as possible and that all those who are actors in this story will find a common language and that it will be seen more broadly that we have a country, and this country must be built further, and not to "blown" into the low fences through which we do not want and we do not want to see, because there will be no such development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. The Group supported today's debate and we also expect that today we will clarify certain issues and that, unfortunately, it is not possible for Mr Webra to say first that it is not the slightest intention to encourage any doubt that two ministers from one party, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture, are looking at the placement differently. There was neither the slightest desire for any opposition to the necessary development of Shaleska nor the Upper Savinja Valley, that I could at least say in my name that I had never wanted anyone bad in my life. And all I do about this route is to clear up certain things that were certainly not right in this process. It is not even these two ministers who are present today, but the beginning of this story was taken over by Minister Pogačnik and Minister Erjavec. These two began with this story of the placement of this route in 2008, when the new government took place. I've been expecting a lot since Minister Žarnic's first performance. I hope that he will continue what he said that he is pleased with this debate, that we will be able to say something about the state of society, but then he is just finished with this thought. I would also like to remind him of his reply to the previous meeting when you said, Mr Minister, that there was some agreement on this route between some of the other sets that were connected in these matters, and that is why, when it was time, there was no response and you were not there at the time. That is also a fact, and that is the essence of everything we talk about. So I don't think there will be any new dilemma today, but the dilemma is as old as the period until 2008, when the decision on this route was taken. And the distinguished Mr. Secretary said that it was an ordered study at the time, but you said only one study. But there were two studies. The first study commissioned by the ILO in 2007 was evaluated by 12 experts, recognised professionals with doctoral qualifications, master's degrees, recognised experts from various fields. This review of this evaluation route was obviously not at the discretion of some, so the Ministry of the Environment ordered a second evaluation and this was done by Urbis d.o.o. with two employees and one co-workers - and the final result of the evaluation of the routes was 114 to 112 for the chosen route, and from that point forward, these experts who were making the first route raised their voices and began to draw attention to the poor evaluation of the routes, to the lack of evaluation, to all the problems that will arise due to the chosen route, and this is happening today. These data on 20 hectares, which have grown to 105 hectares, Mr. Secretary-General, are not the result of your lapsus. Your 20 hectares may have been misused by journalists, but in the basic project there are 21 meters plus 2 times 3 and this was the first basis for the width of the road and thus how many hectares of agricultural land will be consumed and destroyed. And this also in the report issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space made it clear that only 27 metres of the belt used were taken into account in the first part, but that it is now in the second phase, when the route is already being valued, all trenches, embankments, four-metre belts on each side, transfers of existing roads, connections, resting places, urban infrastructure transfer areas, areas of environmental protection measures and areas needed at the time of construction are included and returned after construction to their original condition and planted, recycled and similar. So these numbers have been the same since the first day, which is from 2007, but they have been different, probably from other interests. Therefore, the essence of this story was when this decision was adopted in the previous composition of the government under the leadership of Mr Janez Janša. And the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food was then headed by Mr Jarc and had already written a negative opinion. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has been aware of the importance of agricultural land since 2007 and has never signed and agreed to such a major intervention on this route. The same with regard to civil initiatives. Today, it is nice that there have not been so many negative assessments of civil initiatives in any presentation, because truly civil initiatives are very different and appear on different occasions. I think that this civil initiative is in Braslovča, probably everyone can also look at their website: the Civil Initiative of Braslovča and sees which and what experts are involved in this and how they reason to warn about certain things and never explicitly oppose this chosen route, but from the beginning they point to incorrect evaluation and non-use of the rules of the profession in the evaluation of routes. What I strongly reject on behalf of all is the obvious that in any way we want to harm, hinder the development of the Shale Valley or the Upper Savinja Valley. Years ago, when I was still mayor of the Municipality of Žalec, it was very clear that it was not an issue of opposition to this region, but that it was a matter of protecting the land and taking into account the profession. And right at the beginning of this mandate, my colleague Andrea Richtar and I sent this request to the Government, to all ministers, to revise the evaluation of routes and to initiate this procedure. Nothing happened, things went on like nothing was being warned. So that the indications of those who today will point out with a finger that those who point to what is happening on this route and in this placement and who call for accountability because of the lost three years will have to show or look in the mirror and ask why certain warnings were not taken into account at the beginning of the time and when certain things could be corrected, the question is how this will change today, especially if we have also heard presentations from the SD Group or a colleague who stressed that the Minister has already indicated what the outcome of this commission will be. I wonder how, until the Commission does its work, we are already talking about what the conclusions will be, with the deadline, as the Minister has said, one month after the appointment of the Commission, and the Commission has been appointed on 7 April, and today, I think it has been almost two months since then. I just want to say that this is not an objection to the fact that the route and the third axis are being built, but it is a matter of clarifying and determining how it is possible, in the light of the legislation we have, to point out the professional errors and to the fact that this expert analysis, which was carried out in 2007, has been overpaid, or probably even if it was done for free, we cannot get this information, at least this was the answer from the Ministry at the moment, and we do not have an answer with the DARS. Secondly, and I am pleased to note that colleagues from other parliamentary groups have also mentioned the spatial plans of the municipalities, and this has also stabbed me in the reply of the Minister of the Environment, who, in response to the previous meeting, devoted two or three sentences to the question, and then turned and pointed to a civil initiative that did not point to the municipality of Braslovče, which turned 125 hectares of agricultural land into private matters. Mr. Secretary, it's worse that they did this. It is bad because they are consciously likely, or because of their ignorance of what is worse, they have played legislation and published only a decree on the spatial order of the municipality and not all the annexes have been published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, but have left them at home because they would immediately show that they are not in line with the guidelines of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Space. But with all due respect, this was pointed out by another civil initiative, including from Braslovč, which did not go into her account, how much they could build in this beautiful part of Savinja Valley, and it is even sadder that if we read that the ministry gave this constitutional opinion after almost three years, the Constitutional Court ruled that this spatial order of the municipality of Braslovče did not apply. The administrative unit has issued over 100 building permits, not only for private houses, but also for industrial facilities, and today we do have a situation that is likely to cause a headache to the head of such municipal February and probably the ministry. What about the facilities that stand, what about those that have been authorised and who are even responsible for controlling it - either the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of the Environment or the administrative unit that issues a permit on the basis of an unpublished decree on the spatial order of the municipality or who?Oh, my God! If this goes down, we can imagine what this beautiful Savina Valley will look like. Or it will be another story, where there will be a lot of talk for a while, and then without responsibility, the train will move on. And this is the fundamental desire to note that this spatial legislation is bad, that the attitude towards Slovenian land is bad, that I expect resentment now, but the fragmentation of small municipalities has also caused a lot of corruption, which probably with different spatial policies does not mean such a great loss of agricultural land. Even in a bid for today's debate, the question addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment was how many hectares have been changed by municipal spatial order or spatial plans in recent years the answer has been very modest. There is no data in the case of the municipality of Braslovče, but we have seen that there is no control over whether these spatial order and plans, which are used daily in administrative units, are properly, formally accepted, valid or more. So I think that our relationship is bad, that things need to be changed here, and that is also what this debate is about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoskar has the floor, and I remind Mr Minister and Mr Posedel that at any time during the discussion they have the right to speak and discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Thematics is particularly interesting for us, which come from this end and the initiative for this debate I am taking exclusively and only for the reason that today we are discussing the placement of the corridor of the third development axis in this space and solely for the reason that we are today discussing the possible loss of agricultural land, which, as we see, are very important for our country and that it would be bad for us to continue to lose them, as the relationship between lost agricultural land is greater every year and that is not good. Otherwise, if there is any other ambition in this debate, then I am firmly engrossed in it. I am also hampered by all the debates that have been an attack on the Ministry's work and do not concern this topic, which is on today's agenda. The third development axis, the imperative for the northern part, namely Koroško and Šaleško, and is like the yoke of the snake, is dragged through the years and years, and even today, when we have an open state spatial plan, when a public debate is being held on the location of a fast road, today one would suspect or doubt whether this is already the right step or is the last step, or is this a step that leads forward, because there are still some additional questions that will soon extend this deadline to build a fast road to Koroška. I greatly appreciate and respect every effort to preserve agricultural land, and, finally, there was a debate in this room and the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Lands was adopted and so is, but if this goes on, then the largest construction company will fail before the plans for a fast road will be made, and after the construction company in Slovenia, which could build a fast road, will then securely stay in Braslovča, the Shaleška Valley, the Thinkinska Valley and so on. Only when the agricultural land remains due to the failure to move the fast road will new agricultural land be created in Koroška, when they will stop that last factory and move it somewhere, I don't know, to Serbia or Bosnia, and then they will be able to tear down the factory and make agricultural land. It's hard to hunt this relationship. It's very sensitive. Where is this limit of conservation of agricultural land or other social interest, the national interest in the development of a particular province? You remember that for a short time there was an intervention law on the program to promote the development of Koroška, do you remember, not long ago, when some Korean companies collapsed? Remember all the statistics on the unemployed in Koroška? This is largely the reason why Koroška and Šaleška are, in fact, the only two regions that are not connected by transport. Now that almost all other regions are connected, all other regions, but now this is our strong concern for agricultural land, which is right, of course it is right that I will not be misunderstood, so large that we simply give up the fast road or this modern, modern link between these "unwinded" landscapes and thus prevent this coherent, versatile development of these regions. I think it's a national interest that a fast road is done in spite of everything. Not in silence, to commend the Ministry of Space and Environment, that during this time of planning of the fast road from the very beginning and to this day I have been involved, in many cases they have been invited to participate not only in civil initiatives, to which I have a positive attitude, civil initiatives – they are right – because they often point out a more serious problem and trigger a more serious debate, but rather to cooperate, to plan were invited by all the local communities through which the fast road is routed. There was no way for all these local communities to warn and give their suggestions and suggestions on how and where to put the fast road, where the corridors should be, to do as little damage as possible, to fit into an environment as possible, and to give the opportunity to develop this space. Thus today, when we are talking about Braslovča and these agricultural lands, the question should actually be raised that the local community of Braslovča has been involved from the very beginning and to this day in the consideration of this State Spatial Plan. Civil initiatives, of course, have their views, have their comments, nothing to do with it. But after all, I think that it is the profession that has so far, at least from our point of view, from the point of view of the local communities of the Thinkinj Valley, namely the municipality of Slovenj Gradec, that the profession has been the one that has taken our comments the most into account. In our congregation, we have largely avoided all the destruction of agricultural land, and I am sure that the profession with the same criteria, with the same standard as it did in Koroška or in the Shaleska Valley, has also approached the planning of a route that is traversing or going through Braslovča. So, at this point, I have no particular concerns, and I am sure that the profession has chosen the most optimal solutions, by realizing that all these agricultural land needs to be protected. It is appropriate, if further analysis is required, to be carried out. If they're going to serve some radical modification of existing corridors, then I'm up for it. However, any action and any thing delaying the implementation of this project would be harmful. Harmful for all who live on this route as well as for those who live on the southern part, because the third development of the Axis is imperative and I would like to see a fast road through the Chaleška and Koroška get a very great omen of national interest. If we want to preserve these landscapes, from where they are today, I will not say mass, but in a large number people are moving to the other side of the border. We've talked about this before. We talked about how the fast road or highway on the Austrian side is much closer to Europe, to us who live in the Shaleška or Koroška region. And that people today are buying land and building individual houses in the Pliberk Congregation, because you know that the Pliberk Congregation is no longer in our country. And that workers are moving massively to the Austrian side because it is easy for Austria to become a more friendly country at the moment than Slovenia. If we want to continue this project, which is so important and necessary for these parts of our country, then the country will also have to slowly say goodbye to the part of the population that is already gravitating to the Austrian side and will be in a larger number tomorrow. There will be more people who will take children to kindergartens from Koroška, as they do today, or buy parcels there, or our economic companies will be buying land in the municipality of Pliberk, building new factories there, as is the case with Iron Ravna. If this is an interest, then so be it, I do not think it is the national interest of our country. I am in favour of discussing this subject today. However, any debate on this subject should not be a delay, not to be a hindrance to all this flow, for which I could say only: thank you to the Ministry of Environment and Space for reaching this point in which we are today. It's very good. And I think that governments, whether this government or the next governments, will have a good starting point so that they can actually start buying land, and also specifically with financial structures, how to implement this project, which is so important. From this point of view alone, I would say that it is right that the debate is and also that it is once again strictly noted that agricultural land is a matter which is also of national importance, which must be protected. But be aware that everything in the tunnels, and in the basements and all in some ecoconducts, will probably not be possible to give, because then the economic justification of such a road is already questionable and it will probably have to be sacrificed some hectare of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u153	Mr Majhenič has the floor to prepare Mr Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sure it's a very important decision when it comes to building a highway. Because it is possible to destroy hundreds and several hectares of fertile fields, which, as we know, are lacking in Slovenia and the trend of poor land management is worsening. It is therefore right to have a broader debate on this issue, as the project, which is designed, chooses the worst and most expensive variant of construction and cannot be acceptable only to Dars, who, as we know, is a poor moneylord and known for bad decisions. The motorway is very important for the development of the economy, as well as tourism, and in the integration of the region, which has not been a priority for Korosca in relation to central Slovenia. The President of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič, has been pointing out the need for several years and insisting on the construction of this road connection, but when the elections are over, except Victory, of course, everyone forgets the pre-election promises. It would therefore be right for the Government to listen to the debate today and do something good for people who have been living in the forgotten region for some time and who want what central Slovenia already has. Of course, the protection of agricultural land should be taken into account in the placement of the route. For to destroy the best agricultural land for the people involved in agriculture is but not a contribution to the progress of agriculture, even though they will get the highway, but will be without land and income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri has the floor to prepare Mr Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was expected that in this debate, the evidence falling on the proposaler would be aimed at blocking the development of the third development axis and blocking the route or planning of the road which would link the Mežiški valley to the rest of Slovenia and allow for faster development of the entire region. It's not like that. In the proposal and in the concerns of the proposer, it is a matter of identifying a constant, which is repeated as it is in every planning in our country. Everything is imperative, and we also agree with the development of the third development axis that it is an important imperative that cannot be hindered or hindered. But if we come to the realization that there have been possible and better other options and that the variant that we all now support and define as the only possible is the one that devours the additional 70 hectares of agricultural surfaces, it is necessary to imagine whether we really need to follow blindly some conclusions and plans that do not correspond to some new knowledge. Recently, in the debate on agricultural areas, on agricultural land, we have heard here the important findings of the Minister of Agriculture. We have heard that Slovenia is placed in a very poor position with regard to the conservation of agricultural areas per capita. We have heard about the acute food crisis, which is not only Slovenian but global. These are new insights that justify a critical approach to plans that do not take into account the vital needs of our society, i.e. issues arising from the food crisis. Something similar is happening in general in the planning, whether it's the third development axis, the third dock of Luke Koper, or the spatial plan in Luka Koper, where we hear that there is almost no possibility of change, to adapt these spatial plans to actual needs. And this, of course, also applies to other important issues. Minister Žarnic recently praised a project, which from a spatial point of view makes no sense, in Koper, Capodistria. Therefore, allow me to express my doubts as to whether you have been sufficiently involved in the issue of agricultural protection even in this case, whether there has been a coordinated approach with your colleague, the Jew, who has already given this a dramatic warning. And as we know, it's not true that there are no alternatives, there were alternatives. The first route, which, like the colleague Posedel said very clearly, "burned" by distinguished experts, would take this route closer to the existing Arja village rift, and then there were changes, and we know why. And these changes meant, in fact, further destruction of important agricultural areas. That's all this is about. Is it really so impossible at this point to assess, evaluate slightly differently, even in the light of new knowledge, without interfering with the pace, in the timing of the development of the road links of the Mežiški valley, the Silesian valley and so on towards Austria, and without prejudging the economic, social and other expectations of the affected population? So I think that the dilemmas that have been raised in this debate are still legitimate and concern the interests of the whole country not just one region and are not aimed at preventing the development of that region. I would not like the request of a Member of the Commission to sound that way, because it has also made it clear that this is not the case and that it is in fact only a more critical and self-restraint approach that we expect from politics when it comes to protecting public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor. Mr Barovic or Mrs Richter should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I will not discuss the good intentions or indiscretions of today's panellists. I agree that it is not their intention to delay proceedings, because this debate cannot affect the procedure, because this debate is a debate on the Minister's response to the question that ultimately has no conclusions, no conclusions, but is just a debate, and in this debate we will reiterate what we think about the third development axis, and the procedures must continue in accordance with the legislation that governs the area that we are talking about today. At the outset, the proposaler found that the representative of the SD Group had already mentioned that he already knew what was going to happen, the results of the Interdepartmental Commission, which had been overlooked by the Minister, in his earlier address or additional reply to the question, indicated that the period of the last four years would in fact be assessed as one where no error had been made, but that we could discuss the time before. I think that the previous government – as it had already announced the start of the construction and Mr Janša, who was then president, said that we would start in 2008 and probably not have been informed as he should have been informed – yet this government has made an important decision. And when it comes to lobbying, and it is often referred to as a humorous lobby that shamelessly lobbies for its so-called projects, believe that we have had a great impact on Mr Janša and the government in the previous term to decide as she has decided. Once again, I think that the decision was a good one and that the decision was the right one and that it allowed for the continuation of the activities under way in this mandate. The Minister himself said that he had been misunderstood or that the 20 hectares had been torn out of his reply, saying that this was a land that would be intended or transported by fast road, despite several denials and clarifications as to how this statement had been made, this statement is still being cited and used by supporters or opponents. Since he also said today that the F6, F7 route is being compared and that there is a difference in 20 hectares, there is a lapsus, perhaps the minister himself will say, it is the so-called F2 and F6 routes. I am correcting this so that we do not again make this a story, that we do not really know which routes are actually being talked about. Protecting agricultural land, very nice and right, I am also in favour of protecting it, as much as it is to protect it and to replace it where it is not possible to protect it if we want some longer-term development. And this is definitely the third development axis. We can only look at it today through a fast road, but this is much more than a fast road, the fast road is just the backbone of the third development axis, the fast road is essential for the implementation of the third development axis. Agriculture is a viable economic sector, but it is not the only one, and at least if I can personally assess it is not the most important for the further development of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is too small to compete in agriculture for larger communities in Europe and beyond. But that's right, I said to protect or replace the lands where we actually run them. And it was said that at the previous meeting in response, the Minister said very quickly that there was no civil initiative to defend the land that was in the same local community, which pointed out that we would now run over agricultural land by highway, 125 hectares to change destination and actually do so. In doing so, it must be said that last year the elections were also held in this local community, and that the story actually has at least two chapters at the moment to be separated. But in the eyes of the calculation, also percentages, of what a speeding road means compared to the whole route of a fast road and what it means to get a percentage if we calculate the rate of the speedy road, with a share or with this base of 125 hectares of change of destination. And we're saying over and over again, let's compare the options. The variants are, of course, comparable in the first phase, and the variants were also checked at that time. However, it is not possible now to compare the first phase when the selection of options was and the choice was made, which is the right one, and the state spatial plan, which is at this stage in this section. This is a significant difference because it is a much more accurate installation of the road into space and you can, of course, also get different data. In fact, at this stage, as they have written down, it is impossible, professionally incorrect and misleading to make any comparison between the draft VAT and variants, what I have already said. In fact, this cannot be implemented. And when we talk about the route F2 Šentrupert–Velenje–Slovenia Gradec–Koroška and route F6, which would best correspond to the connection to the Arja village, we will, of course, find out from these calculations that different assessments and different results are obtained on the basis of analyses. Certain advantages are, of course, the so-called K15, a version that is close or on the same route as F2. And K31, which leads towards the Arji village, has the advantage: let's say from the point of view of the benefits of users, K15 is better, from the point of view of the unloading of existing remote roads, K31 is better, from the point of view of the unloading of major urban roads, K15 is better again, and so this analysis is done, and at the end of the summary or conclusion that says, although K31 may be slightly more expensive than K15, K15 is better when you draw and add up the results that this route gives. And I will not repeat the arguments that have been stated today, I will not repeat which route better connects the area on this western part, where the Upper Savina Valley is, or the town of Šoštanj in the Shaleška Valley, or Šmartno near Paka, then against Slovenia Gradac or through the Arje village. And do you think that if we say today that this F2 is not good and that we go to F6 and again make a state spatial plan and we close the investment for another three years, it is very important because of economic operators, both in the Shaleska Valley, both in Savina Valley and of course in Koroška, that it means nothing in fact, and that when we say it, it is now the F6 route that everyone is enthusiastically clapping from Arya village over Mount Velenje, Thinking to Slovenj Gradac, which is the perfect route, you chose the best, we accept it and we have no comments. The next day, we will have a civil initiative to talk about the fact that this route is worse, that more tunnels will be needed, that it will be more demanding, and that it will overrun the existing road link. Of course, I am also pleased that today it has not been mentioned that in fact this route towards Arja village is better because it essentially resolves the traffic along Velenje-Arje road of the village, what I have heard in the past. Yes, of course it is, because this is the only relatively normal connection between Velenje and Koroška and the highway cross. Where are they supposed to drive, where are they supposed to unload the traffic? So, the arguments are for this route and the problem in all of these discussions is that we are one advocate of this route and are now operating on arguments for this route. On the other hand, there are opponents of this route who are looking for arguments against this existing route, and we are not really listening. It is therefore good that the profession brings the matter forward, that we have a state spatial plan, that we have public divisiveness, that we have public debates, that people have the opportunity to say what they think about this road and that the government finally decides. Because in the end, someone has to decide. And probably, like the previous government in 2008, this government will have to say or decide on this route if it does not expire earlier. And another thing is, we've divided this route into the north, into the south and there's one end to Koroška, to Koroška, and now we're going to discuss each other individually. And if we say that this route of Velenje south - Šentrupert is not suitable and we go to the other Arja vas - Velenje, it falls into the water also this route, which has already been in public debate, because it is not possible to connect because the debate or opposition and a different decision will mean, probably all of you remember those stories when they told how they build tunnels. The one at the end, who is always the smartest, says, "We start working tunnels on one side and on the other, if we meet, we have one, if we don't, but we have two." This is how the debate on this route now looks similar. All of these routes are interconnected and are, in fact, inseparable, separated by procedures, in stages just to make the treatment easier. But if we change everything now, and I don't know if there's a hero who hopes to predict it, I think this time, too, Mr Janš's former Prime Minister would not be able to predict when this road will begin to build if these stories continue, as they have begun. That we are not talking about the importance of building these construction infrastructures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Posedel has made a statement as a candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps in this debate only a few information that may have been from ignorance, otherwise said. A colleague mentioned that the congregation of Braslovče was likely involved. Yes, it was included, 19. 11. 2007 was a gathering of locals who were against the chosen route. 22. 11. 2007 was an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council of the Municipality of Braslovče, where 12 voted against this route and 3 in favour. So much was taken into account in the Braslovča Congregation regarding the route. On the other hand, I am pleased that colleague Bojan also said that he would not discuss politically, although there is probably no place for professional discussions here. As politicians, we can talk about why we should not go a step back from what is only unknown. All that has been said since 2008 is very clear and the legislation is so guided that the procedure is properly stated by the Minister: the Commission will find that there have been no mistakes and that this debate too, we will put it through and then everything will go forward. The point is, it's different. The point is, and that was that sentence when I thought the minister would help a little while talking about the state of society. Then how can we talk and not hear what was obvious? We are not advocates of one route, I have not mentioned at any time today which route is the best, because I am not an expert, nor has it been written by the Civil Initiative of Braslovča, Mr Kontic, you can laugh, but their website, their documents do not favor any routes. They have been pointing out the evaluation since 2007 and I am very pleased that today's debate will bring at least those studies that have been commissioned in 2007, the first, which was done by 12 experts and the second, which was done by Urbis d.o.o. And that at least we'll compare it and that the commission that's been appointed has looked at this. In order for the civil initiative to have a connection with local elections in the municipality of Braslovce, I assure you that it is not because the former mayor who made this mistake with the municipal spatial order did not run, it is said that the desire to allow larger areas of walled plots is always present in the local community, but in this case there is no. More horrifying is what the minister probably knows from other congregations. What's more terrifying is how legislation is played to get to the habitable plots. Take a ride across Savina Valley and look at the locations! Confused with common sense, God forbid, peasant. Where are all the facilities, and what's all the work done? Regarding the fast road, Mr Kontič: with such respect and care as you are talking about the Shale Valley, you do not want and do not want to hear anyone from Savinjska. It's nice of you to say that agriculture is also an economy. There are more than 100 years of farmers here, many of whom are connected to these very hops that will be transported. That it's about the soil that's the source for the whole valley and it's going to be cut off on this route? These are matters that are professional, life and you, even when we were talking as neighbors, as congregations in local conversations, aggressively insisted that you were right, but not everyone else. When you are just talking about the economic crisis, how important every money is, it is important to ask why the most expensive mile of the road is probably chosen, but if the other route could probably be cheaper to the highway to Velenje. Therefore, it has been difficult to talk, even today, and this debate has shown that there will be even more damage to agriculture, land, Slovenia, and that it will probably be necessary to think about connecting, if not in the region at least in spatial planning, more municipalities together. It's only about civilian initiatives. Civil initiatives are a very interesting matter and are very different. What you allow or go to the Valley of Shale is probably also a mockery of civil initiatives. I'm talking about today's article, maybe you haven't read it yet, or what we already know: that the mayor and the director of the municipal administration are setting up a civil initiative and are performing at a public hearing once as a representative of the Municipality of Velenje and once as a representative of a civil initiative for a route that is contrary to another civil initiative. I think it's a little bit in the face of the current regulation and the process of adopting the best regulation. I don't want to talk about it anymore because it's just an actual matter and anyone can read it in today's Work. It is only a wish that we take this step and do not talk about what you have already told us directly today that the debate should be, but the procedures will go on. Probably with such prices and hectares it is difficult, as this debate is intended to draw attention to the lack of legislation, to ensure that what the Minister said in his previous reply was the agreement of some that such a placement has been made and that such evaluation has been done and that in the area of spatial legislation it is gravely necessary to change much so that we do not make the situation worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Kontić made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I will be brief about not taking the time of my colleagues and colleagues who want to discuss it. I never speak with an argument of power, but I defend the arguments that speak for this road connection and no one will stop me from doing so, but at least really in this National Assembly. But there's something really wrong with that thinking. When I said that I hope that the procedure will go forward despite today's debate, because we do not know how the conclusion of the procedure will end, Mr Posedell. But the process must go on and the decision must be taken in the end. However, if you think you can block the process through this debate, then the statement is that you do not want to contribute to the delay of the process is over. You shot all the way through here in this case, if that information doesn't hold. About Braslovch. I didn't say it affected the outcome of the election, you didn't listen to me or you didn't understand or you wouldn't understand. I said that last year there were elections and that there were two stories in Braslovča or two chapters in this story: before the elections and after the elections. And that some have decided on this as they have decided, and that now there are others who manage and correct the mistakes that need to be corrected if they have actually happened. And when you tell us or think that I represent interests and that I act arrogantly with arguments, it's just that everyone acts like they think it's the right thing to do and that these arguments will be heard the most. But I also talked about the interests of the Upper Savinja Valley, and you didn't actually hear that. I wasn't just talking about Shaleska Valley, I was talking about Savina Valley, the interest of Savinja Valley, the Shaleska Valley and Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Visjak, would you like to make a procedural proposal because the replica is not possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u164	Procedurally. Your Honor! We are witnesses that the developmentists in Savinjska, Šaleška, as well as the Koroška region are arguing here in front of us and the Slovenian public about such and different solutions to an important development project for that part of Slovenia, not only for those, but also for the wider part. I'm sure the problem will only be deepened in this way, not solved. I suggest, so procedurally, that they sit together, they find solutions, just as we have found them in Posavia. But if they don't have a wall to arrange it, I can give them my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u165	Well, I cannot put such a procedural proposal to the vote. Mr Posedel, there is no replica to the replica, but you will get the word as a candidate after one of the Members has spoken. Mrs. Richter, please, you have the floor. Get ready for Mr. Posedel, Mrs. Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. It's really fun to summarize a word after that. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, may I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u167	And yes, it's time for the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u168	Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u169	Yeah. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Well, apparently that confusion has now gone into technique, so energy is working. I won't be long because it seems to me that quite a few colleagues have mentioned that it would be good if we sometimes listened and even heard each other, understood and so on. It's been two months since we discussed the same subject. Here before us was Minister Židan and we listened to the priority food content and our agricultural land, taking care of agricultural land, which is one of the priorities, both European policies, European priorities, and I believe that Slovenian governments and our priorities, because we must probably be interested in food and food industry and thus lost agricultural land. I am alone in this story because I am from Celje and Celje has always been and will remain the great centre of this great region, which we call Savinja-Shaleška, Savina Valley and so on. Not long ago, you probably read, there are a large majority or all the mayors of this great region, over 30 of them, met and signed an agreement on the future, strategy and development. And what is the road cross other than – unfortunately, the railway will not have for a long time – a connecting tool that means development for the future. And that's why I believe you've made a deal with the government. And I also believe, as colleague Zanoškar said, that he believes in politics and all the professions, not just one profession, the professions that have drawn up the proposal and is now in the process that the path that you decide on is the one that you will start implementing is the most appropriate profession and, of course, for all people. For me, civil initiatives are very important because there are two million people in the Slovenian space and we would not also listen and hear, we turn around twice, we all know each other, if we are not even related, and it is therefore important that we listen to civil initiatives, and here it is possible to have a little short contact that civil initiatives are always at the back, are those who are unreliable, but I am confident that you will sit down and with your arguments, papers and with both colleagues, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Transport, again with arguments that will convince civil initiatives that you are doing well, properly and that your decisions are not just political. And, of course, what colleague Kontič also said, I can only look forward to the fact that the current Government has continued one of the decisions made by the previous Government. It is said that some decisions still apply and that this Government takes a responsible approach to its programme and also implements its decisions. Therefore, let this debate, as a reminder or a hearing of the unheard, be an initiative to agree and convince in the Government with arguments and then decide, also politically, that the route is the best. The third development axis must happen very quickly, because it is the area of central Slovenia, when we are talking about Koroška, which is now completely cut off from central Slovenia, not to speak from Ljubljana, only those Members who are driving or also those who regularly walk in one way or another on the ground, but not to say that this third development axis continues towards Dolenjska and, of course, towards the other southern parts of Slovenia, who are almost as far away as Martin Krpan’s time, when he carried his salt over the hills and valleys, and sometimes we could even say that we are in the poor middle, early, late, middle ages. This is so today, when you travel from Koroška to Dolenjska, when I speak of course also about Metlika and therefore people in this area and especially in the economy need a very quick decision and the beginning of the construction of the development axis. I am convinced that it is also the interest of civil initiatives if they listen to us if they think seriously and soberly that this third development axis also happens. And that is why our initiatives by some in this area will stop when the decision has arguments and really convinces all those who are still skeptical to this day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Posede as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. A very serious topic can be very amusing for some, so also such a procedural proposal by a fellow Visiank to meet in the building room and talk. I am more concerned that that agreement took place in 2007 and was accepted in the building room. Such a decision for such a route would probably not have been taken in the presence of the profession and in the event of a serious attitude towards the Slovenian land. So much for that. Second. Mr Kontic, I can hear very well, I understand very well, so don't worry. I heard you, I understood you, and I'm listening. And I also respect what you say, and I want only that, as the arguments have been made many times, colleague Andreja said, all municipalities of the Celje region, except the Upper Savinja Valley and this is the special story of the SAŠA region: Savinja-Šaleška. If they were correct, they would be "the Upper Savinja-Shale region", because Lower Saviniska, with a significantly larger territory, economic power, and development, remained in the Celje region and why the Celje region is also a little behind, is a matter of these relations, but this is a story that is not for today. Today's story is that we're talking about land loss due to procedures that the Minister obviously didn't want to open anymore, and he wants to confirm with the Commission that everything was fine at the time, and that this relationship is going to go to zero 105 hectares of the best land in the Savina Valley, and that's why we're the ones born there, and we're outraged that the arguments we're convinced of are not put on the table. I expect, Mr Minister, that you will also do these studies and evaluations within this Commission and that we will have an answer why the revision of the twelve experts on the evaluation of routes has not been taken into account, but has been taken into account by Urbis. I think that's what we want and it'll be easier to talk from there. Mr Kontic, just this: we do not oppose the third axis, we want the development of the Silesian region, but on pure grounds and net accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u173	Mr Kontic has returned to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u174	In the case of net accounts, it is good if both sides are so prepared to be accounted for. One more deceiving, and that's why I volunteered for the replica. It's not about 105 acres in the Savina Valley. 105 hectares has the entire route, Mr Posedel. But you said 105 acres in the Savina Valley. There are 48 hectares in the Savina Valley. Please don't fool me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you. Does Mr. Procedural have the word? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. On the agenda, we have a debate on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space of Dr Rok Žarnic to the question of the mission. The debate has been going on for more than two hours, and the ministry has not yet given one answer to all these problems, to all these confrontations between the Zares Group and the SD. I think that if we are talking about his unsatisfactory answer to the question at the previous meeting, the Minister should be actively and objectively involved in these discussions. Alert one and the other discussants to problems, to inaccuracies and, above all, to offer solutions. I think it's very irresponsible that the Minister is actually sitting here for two hours and hasn't answered a single question. In this way we cannot hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space or any other minister. It's unfair, it's unfair, it's better the government doesn't report time. It has a stated time and in the end for a certain conclusion is a purely "without connection" such a debate. The role of the minister is probably to actively participate in such a discussion, says solutions, and says much about the way this government and this coalition function in general, not only in today's discussion, but in general. I'd like to ask you some quality answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u177	The Minister will answer when he wants to, either in the middle or in the end, that is his decision. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm afraid you weren't here when I made the opening remarks. In the introductory words, I have given chronology, and I think that this problem, as far as our ministry is concerned, is clear and clear. This is more about political overtures, someone who's never done anything. I must say that our ministry carried out its work properly following the 2008 decision and carried out it. A lot of people don't like what they've done. But I must begin where Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has concluded. I don't think this is about local issues. This is a strategic national importance for the whole country. The third development axis was displayed correctly years ago as a development axis in which, regardless of who the customer is from, most of you believe here. It was a political decision, a strategic decision, a proper decision that I would sign if I were a minister, as I am now signing. Apparently the devil is in the details, as always. And these details disturb us, because I fear that in Slovenia we have too much fig in our pocket and we are thinking of partial interests, this is a situation in society, as I said. We're thinking about local interests, bits and pieces of money, if we're going to force and save when it's time. I'm afraid that's what's going on here. See, there are many agricultural land in the municipality of Braslovče. Some of these, entirely legal, have changed for developmental purposes. Legally, because I don't have the correct data, we'll also give this data because you'll be surprised at how big the surfaces are. Unfortunately, 125 hectares went by, at least as it now appears, illegally. And this poor unfortunate road with these 48.59 hectares in the municipality of Braslovce represents 28% of the area, if we add the illegal part of the road - a bad third. In thought. At this point, I would like to call on the civil initiatives taking care of land for agricultural policy to also say what I have just mentioned. Above all, I would ask my fellow experts, including some of my fellow students from the university, that when they are very zealous in calculating what will be lost, they should take a meter and go to the ground, and calculate what was illegally built or destroyed. It would be of great use to us, to you, to all of us. However, I understand this debate that the vast majority of you agree that we need this axis, that some details may need to be regulated, but it is encouraging for me as Minister in this area, perhaps a little late, but at least to move the matter forward. I hope that in my mandate, you will say that I am an optimist, we will be able to put at least one of the DPNs at the government's meeting, and that it will be adopted in this mandate. And I can tell you, the good news is coming from the south end of the third development axis. There they obviously understand that there is a public interest, including local interest, and, if you like, the personal interest of each of the inhabitants. It is highly likely that they will be the first to be able to drive at least after part three of the development axis. But I'll be in touch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you. As a proponent, please, Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. In these debates or in this debate, we do not expect anything to change. The debate itself will not help. But what we are listening to, I think that everyone who follows or wants to understand, sees, Mr Minister says the Ministry has done the right work since 2008. But we are talking about that you were warned in 2008 by all the ministers, the whole government, the secretary of the government, that the evaluation of the routes is probably unprofessional and that the route is not the best. And you didn't respond personally, neither did any of the ministers, nor did the government, nor did the train or the caravan go forward. That's what we're talking about, not your proper work. We respect that, you are, I'll say, at least such an optimist that you can hold on to this ministry in all the troubles, but we're talking and you said for ourselves that this is likely to happen: we'll force it when the time is right. This is what we talk about: that all warnings were timely, by the profession, that evaluation is probably not professional, that the best route is not chosen and that is the whole story. No opposition to the regions, nothing but that. It wasn't done from here on out. This was not done and this will be difficult to prove, except with the report from 2008 onwards, but on the wrong basis you have done all the work and we have also warned about this in every debate and also that you are spending money on the study, for projects and for nothing to be done. And there's something else about the civil initiative, Mr. Secretary-General. Also because you always mention this illegal change in agricultural land in the municipality of Braslovče. This is where you were warned by a civil initiative! I don't know which Mr. - in the paper I read, who and what your employees' responses were, how much pressure it was, how much pressure the Minister took to look at, and it really turned out that this spatial order was wrong and that you gave it to the Constitutional Court. Probably with one long delay both in your ministry and in the Ministry of Agriculture, we can only be afraid of how many such cases there are between 210 municipalities. Who exercises this control, where they are still so resourceful, with the help of which the Slovenian land is transformed into walled plots, this is the debate. There is no dispute between the Shaleška and Savinja region, far from it. It is about how we have the planning system, what levers we have, that some come to the best plots and probably everyone who looks can see that this is happening in Slovenia and that we are talking today, that someone should go to the building and just finish the debate. The debate is important and in particular to preserve not only agricultural land but our land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you will have your word immediately, only I will return to my old practice. Whether Mr Posedel or Minister, in the midst of one Member, this has always been the case. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. No, no, no. He'll be an MP. Thank you. That is said, Mr Minister agrees with this practice. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor. Get Mrs. Nigga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u182	Dear colleagues! This debate is due to an essential element that is missing. The construction of the third development axis, which I have been monitoring for many years and I can think of it, lacks an essential element, which is a development component. The first study, produced in New Town, variants 3, 9 and 10, I think of them, solved the development and transport component of Koroška, including this Savinja work, the suction work, the central Slovenian and White landscape – no one objected. Politics has destroyed a project that has been made out of European funds. Where is this money, who has earned it, we still don't know. A second political project was made. I'm honestly saying that I had an argument in New Town with the then mayor of Velenja who said, "You'll see. Os will go where we say it, not what you say!".. That's the truth, you can ask him. The developmental component is missing. Mr Žerjav was a transport minister and was at an interview where development is needed and the transport link is well known because he offered his own solution. Because he said the other one — the new one is bad, too expensive. Today, we are witnessing another dispute in the latest plans for the third development axis. The first argument is still ongoing, ask the congregation Laško. We're here for the second time today, and that's justified. It is not just Mr Žarnic, but I would expect the least representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy today to sit here and say that this development axis brings development. Who? A congregation that is two kilometers from the highway? Or is one who is not on the third development axis 30 kilometers from the highway? And no one wants to invest in this congregation because this traffic jam is too much for him. It's not fair and it's not fair. This is where I drew for the Minister of Environment and Space today. He's the victim here today. Those responsible: Minister of Transport, Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Economy, are not here and care about development. Koroška would have evolved, it wouldn't have failed the way it did. Koroška would have a transport connection, the same would have been with Zasav, the same would have been with all central Slovenia and would have been the same with colleagues from the White Land. And we wouldn't be fighting over too expensive land, and we wouldn't have had another fight. They're in Las Vegas and there's gonna be trouble and there's trouble here. It's a four-timer option that doesn't bring development. Can we even talk about the third development axis? So much for that. Here I support Mr Posedel in full, not only against Mr Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u183	Minister, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you. I'm running out of lyrics because everything's already been told. Actually, I don't feel like a victim, and I'm very happy to do my job because it's very interesting. That's not sarcastic, I mean it. I have to say that this control of the UN and these things are true with us, but I don't think that's right because we show up at the same time in two roles. So this marriage solution is not the best. Why did these demands begin to take place? We have only recently managed to obtain a qualified member, one of the attorneys who helps us with these things so that we can carry them out. It is a matter of long-term procedures, risky procedures and matters must go as they should. I can tell you now that you will hear about two more congregations in the future and perhaps more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Prepare Mr. Mencinger and Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Today is, I'd say, kind of dynamic. He started off with a historical theme that's history, and he's going to end up with development and developmental eighths. However, unfortunately, as this beautiful and wonderful essay said, history has caught us a bit and we have learned very little. Statistics say a lot, but those who have assessed placing in the space especially motorways in Slovenia and who have evaluated all possible variants and combinations, we have always decided in Slovenia, but always for the most expensive variants. Why? These were not even the simplest and not the kind to touch agricultural land, which we have only 23% in Slovenia. That's true, and we need to be aware of that. And here are the consequences of all this. Exactly how many tolars it was then, and today it is also known how many Euros it is today. Sadly, though, let those who had the opportunity to influence the matter at that time view it. Actually, I'm going to say this, it's very banal, it's really banal that we're talking about spatial planning being decided by politics. Politicians may decide here and there about a segment, about some small priorities. In spatial planning, which is so difficult, requires so many experts, I tell you that these experts don't leave very close to each other, and maybe it's good that they don't. I had the opportunity to speak not only with one but with several ministers, and I know how much they allowed it to influence the professional arguments of the other profession, in some such banal facilities as libraries. But such important facilities as infrastructure facilities, which are actually important for the development of the whole economy, I think that politicians, in particular not parliamentarians, cannot be significantly affected. We can add to the debates in some way, and we may speed up some processes, but these processes are so long and so long-planned that it is definitely somewhere else. And if some say that we are the politicians responsible, I will certainly tell you that very few or not many of them. What's the problem? The problem is that with every project as good as any, we can only speak and look bad. We do not know what we have achieved with all these infrastructure facilities, what we have restored, what is the cultural heritage that we have been able to preserve, because this is the specifics of Slovenia, and this is a very big one, with a difficult ordeal. And there was an opportunity for the second profession to influence. And these are the facts. These are facts we just can't get past, and we just need to know that. It is true, however, that Slovenia ran during these periods, not only during a period of 20 years of autonomy, but also earlier, because it did not have strategically well-targeted development goals. She was running in the energy, agricultural, such and other fields, and this, of course, also made it difficult to put into the space of various infrastructure facilities, which are of infinite importance and also had a profound impact on all other activities within Slovenia. We had a year of biodiversity, 2010. Today we have a year or this year is a year of forests. We can say that with everything we've been criticizing, we've only kept something. In Europe, we have one of the best biodiversity and, last but not least, the forest, we are the first, second or third, we have 66% of the area. It is true that we do not have agricultural areas, we have only 23% of them, but it is essential that we consume only 90 m3 of water per capita and that other developed countries, of course, consume hundreds of times more. However, those who are very eco-aware and at the same time one of the most developed — say Denmark — are only 130. It is said that in all this policy and in all the runaways that have been very large in these years, however, one thing we have been able to do as we should. Statistics are unforgivable. My colleague Brunskole would also like to say something else, because we have left some axes and some parts of Slovenia empty, without anything, so let the White Country get its own space to say something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Well-known, distinguished Minister, Ministry employees, president, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a few rich and interesting debates. I am convinced that to the areas we need or the development axes, that is, the third development axis, the third A, the fourth development axis, that is, the quality transport link between areas with central Slovenia or the quality link between the Republic of Slovenia and other countries, we certainly do not care that things, as has been said several times today, are indeed being drawn. But it's only right that we discuss matters. If, on this occasion, I can express my purely personal opinion that I am not quite sure and I would not like to argue too much about this, whether this is the way it has to be done today in this regard, because it is an assessment that this particular area should have been discussed in some other way. Maybe it's not wrong either. Let me say that the very area of the third development axis of the southern part, as mentioned earlier by my colleague Črnugljeva, is that, and as Mr Minister has already said, that in the southern part it is a broader matter than the local interest. This is a matter of public interest, state and interstate interest. But I'll make sure of that when we can really drive on the third development axis. However, let me say that I also assess that we are on the right track and that tomorrow's debate on the Development Support Act of the White Krajina, or because the Government has adopted the Pocolpia programme, where a third development axis – the southern part – will be included among the major points of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, here I wish to publicly thank the Ministry of Transport, the professional colleagues, here are present, for the great effort and work that public presentations and hearings have already been carried out. Not only do people demand connections, but they do, and they want them from the heart. However, let me say that I am convinced that even in the part of the area from Styria, Savinja-Shaleška to Koroška in all areas, where there are still some questions that may be open, that things are still going the right way. I am sure that matters will be resolved on this axis in this area as well. The third development axis can really mean better development. In the White landscape, however, we are not only facing developmental eights, when many of the potential investors are talking about roads, electricity is also an important point in recent times, when, for example, in the Semič area, the company is not able to employ an additional 100 people because of the problem of increasing the supply of electricity for specific production. However, I am sure that within the framework of the Pocolpian programme, as well as the plans of the Ministry of Economy, a source and obedience will also be found for this matter. However, to colleagues with whom Comrade Posedel asked a question from the Member of Parliament to Minister Žarnić regarding the construction of agricultural land on the third development axis, or the rapid road of Šentrupert-Velenje, I would like to see as soon as possible the resolution of all possible dilemmas in this area and in particular the relief for the benefit of all, because when we go abroad, we find that 500 meters or a kilometer of two, left or right miles are almost undetectable. But I do know that on the third axis of development, there was a big question for every 100 or 500 meters. So I want a solution to the problems and I am convinced that the debate has resolved mainly in the direction of resolving matters, but not in the direction of any conflict between the coalition Members. I am sure that this was not the case, but in the well-being of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Posedel made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u190	The hall is beautiful. Let me conclude with this last sentence by my colleague Renata; it is not at all a conflict between the coalition Members, given that it is heard that I will soon be in SD, that would be illogical. As for your second assessment: this is not a dispute between Savinja and Shaleška. This is a misjudgment based on a dialogue with colleague Kontic. There is no dispute between Savinjska and Shaleška. It's about what I think he's given a very good warning, and the minister said in his last speech. It is not well solved either by legislation or by the fact that control over what is going on then is in the ministry and therefore we expect a concrete solution very soon. We know that there is no control, we know that the legislation is so complicated that I specifically ask you, Minister, how many of 210, 211, 212 municipalities have adopted a spatial plan? 29 out of 220. That's a long way from everyone. The deadlines are extended and the extension of deadlines means an open space for those who hope, for those who know, and this debate is intended to point out that legislation is such that it allows for all that anyone remembers. In one municipality, a change of destination has so upset some that a commission to study what is happening to land is established: in the Municipality of Ljubljana. In all the other 200 congregations, this is not discussed, and I am sure that according to how legislation is regulated, there is a serious problem in a number of communities in the middle, and that there are plots, illegal interventions, and, above all, environmental damage. And what you said wasn't personnel. Probably. This is not enough to say out loud, because if you monitor how many quality staff the Ministry of Environment and Space has gone through, we don't have enough data, but I think that's the problem that needs to be said and helped the Minister. I also reject the fact that the minister would be the target today. I personally have this debate and those who voted for it want to help strengthen this part because it is essential to strengthen control, inspection. In a specific case, everyone who has ever been mayors or even private knows what experience we have with them. Illegal disposal, in black, at night, of construction material from a broken building to a forest where there is a stream and a protected area. I could say in months, and it would be too long, so I'll say the constitutional problem is solved. If the construction inspector came because it was construction material, he wasn't competent because it was in the woods. When the forest inspector arrived, he was not competent because the stream was flowing and part of the material was delayed into the stream. So he's never been a proper inspector, and we haven't solved this problem. People who work at the Ministry of Agriculture, who know the terrain, drive around it, see interventions to the first agricultural areas, but do not react. And these are the problems that need to be addressed, and therefore I think that this debate is correct and that the Minister will also be, because I see that he is aware of this problem with the personnel, with the overload of some and then the perceptions of those who, for example, do not agree from Ars, there is no agreement from individuals and that this issue needs to be opened up and started actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Žerjav has the floor to prepare Mr Bevk. He's quitting. Mr. Bevk, let's get Mr. Presecnik ready. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable assembly, Mr. Minister with co-workers! Placement of developmental axes really doesn't go hand in hand. This is not from today, nor from the time of our government. It's been going back a while. I recall when colleague Kontič asked a question in this Chamber to the Prime Minister of the time Janez Janša, I think this was once in 2006 and Prime Minister Janez Janša said that they would plant a shovel on the third development axis in 2008. Well, you see, this shovel is still completely clean today. The placement of the road on the Cerkno-Gorenja route on the fourth development axis started in 2006 when the Minister of Environment, Dr. Janez Podobnik and several other transport ministers changed during this time and nothing was yet agreed. I think that next week the Minister of Transport, Dr Vlačič, will take a look at this section of the fourth development axis between Cerknim and Gorenje village, as agreed at the special consultation that I organised in Cerkne this February, where representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space were also present at a precise stage of the project. I therefore hope that these roads or development axes will be placed in space as soon as possible. Also because of new jobs. We have heard, above all, the opposition SDS: "Room reform is not necessary, create new jobs." If you were to create developmental axes and put them into space during your government's time, SCT could be working today, not bankruptcy. So that jobs don't get created like that overnight. It takes five, six years to create a job. I visited one of the companies in the Collector Group, where about €60,000 of added value per employee. And I said, "What time do you do one job?" "Not overnight," they said, like you did in the campaign for this referendum. It takes five, six years to create one job. Innovation is needed, tools need to be made, production needs to be automated, customer contracts need to be concluded and so on. And also these development axes, once placed in space, can be the generator of our further development, so that we can reach out to these large infrastructure projects and that very many people can also be employed in these projects and that pension reform can be at least as proposed now. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And not the way he's going to. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Preseknik has the floor to prepare himself for the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have already indicated, in the opinion of the Group of Members, the need for the earliest possible start of the third development axis in the whole, certainly the whole route, but in particular, after all the technical and transport studies, it is most at stake or necessary, calling for something to start happening and for the Velenjan industrial complex to be connected to the motorway. That's definitely the section that's most needed. I don't mind if a section starts building sooner if it's ready first, and I regret that it's at this section where I initially thought there would be relatively few problems or there won't be any, but now it's turned out in these last years that it's too bad. The question raised in relation to the construction of agricultural land on the third development axis, or the rapid road of Šentrupert-Velenje, was a basic question. And now, in these two, three hours, we have talked about all the necessary and unnecessary things, all the possible routes, all the possible delays in the Ministry of Environment and the space that needs to be addressed, but I am firmly convinced that on another occasion. And here I am with my colleague Richter, who had previously debated, in this deep agreement, even in my implementation, it has been said that the third development axis must happen and this must happen very quickly. I have no objection to checking, whatever he re-evaluates, but let this not interfere with the follow-up procedures necessary to finally place this route and to start activities first for the purchase of land itself and so on and so on, all that is necessary for the very beginning of the construction. Until today, nothing was said, but I was surprised at the need to link the middle part of the third development axis and the southern part or some kind of federal process, which I had long debated long ago not seeing any need for a federal flow. So if we get the north side of the highway in any way, we get it to the highway, and then there's certainly no problem that we can talk about the middle part independently, and if that's a delay on the highway, not on the lawn, it's not an obstacle to the construction and future use of this road, which is the goal. And I have certainly never been involved in any political overreaction, nor do I personally know, so I have not read the evaluation of individual variants, I do not know this evaluation, because I always stress that I fully trust that the profession will do this evaluation and that those who are responsible for the eventual execution of the procedure as it is necessary and probably the worst option is to argue in this Chamber now, what is right and what is wrong. But I will only stress this from the opinion of the parliamentary group: if anyone thinks that we will not destroy agricultural land on any other option, he is wrong. If he doesn't think there's gonna be any opposition, he's wrong. Above all, we will achieve that we are good again for a few years, but these few years do not mean two years, but certainly substantial, substantial more and let's ask the economy - the one that still gives bread, even at the end of us - to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the companies that are still active and unfortunately are less and if we fail them, we will probably pee thinly in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Get ready, Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you very much. If you've given me your word kindly. Maybe with just a little bit of information about those O.N.s, I'd have told you. In the intercom, I said that 29 of them were accepted, 50 of them are close to reception, 120 is something going on, so it's 199 out of 210 who are at least at work. The deadline expired on 1 January, but will be extended to the SOS and the ZOS initiative and is now in the process of drafting a law to extend it there until 1 June 2012 in order to set things straight. From then until the end of 2013, it will only work on new ones. And then it will be finally. So much for me to say. But now I would like to thank my colleague, Jacob President, for I think he has taken everything we have said: whatever we do, wherever our problems are, we need the road. The more we become intolerant, the more we make trouble, the later the road will be, and every day it is known in this loving country. And I agree that this is a problem of major ministries, just consider that I represent my colleagues here, and I also try to answer and believe in them, and without this turning out strangely, these colleagues who have been appointed here are also concerned about this issue and are trying to help. And there's something else for the end. I would like to thank you all because this is one of the more active, quality and rich debates with very meaningful suggestions, opinions from all sides. And I thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u198	Thank you very much. At the end of the day, it's time to congratulate and thank you. I also thank all those who voted in favour of the debate, including the Minister. Again: he was not a target, but he is the minister of this ministry. I also repeat that the issue and this debate was not intended and directed not against Shaleška, nor against Koroška, was not politically motivated, was not motivated within the coalition, but was motivated primarily by what all the debaters saw, that this is an area that is poorly regulated, which has many shortcomings and therefore also calls for action, that I also realize that the route must be built as soon as possible, that it is important for the economy and for development and that we want it as well. However, not where the most agricultural land is transported and not where the most expensive option will be built. To conclude, no new dilemma has been opened today, but only the old one should be resolved, and this is on the Minister – to make a comparison of the evaluation of both routes. The one ordered by the government and then by the ones executed by Urbis. There I think the answer to all these dilemmas and doubt whether the route is correctly placed and why there is so much potentially destroyed agricultural land and why it will be so expensive a kilometer. If you guarantee this, Mr Minister, the success of this debate will be very great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I can't see my hands. Then I conclude the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue by vote in half an hour, at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u200	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on European Council Workers, the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda – first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am speaking because it is right to say that our Group of Members has recently found that there are laws that have nothing to look for in the procedure. Apparently, some lobbyists are preparing content to, of course, fit in where they can. I wouldn't go into history, but I won't start to tell you what those laws were, I think in a very short time something like this came along, and this Real Estate Intermediation Act is one of them. The main purpose of this law was to remove the margins for the sale of real estate. In the opposition and, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly opposed this, and we are pleased that Members from other parliamentary groups who have found that this does not lead anywhere, especially at the time when the real estate market should be released. In this way, of course, this would not have happened and a price difference could have been made, of course, when prices were falling, into a commission, which would not have contributed to the reduction in real estate prices. The fact that there are really lobbies in the back shows that certain solutions to which we have witnessed on the working body on the Committee on the Environment and Space, when the government objected to a certain solution to the fiduciary account, the matter was adopted and then the amendment was tabled by the coalition to delete it, and the amendment came later, so that it would not be deleted so that this amendment would remain. This really proves that the government somehow does not control what is happening with the legislation coming into Parliament and that if only the government opposes it, then it means that some lobbying works. This is precisely why we oppose this law, and we believe that such a way of investing the legislation proposed by some lobbies in order to stop this, because it does not lead anywhere and certainly does not benefit the current situation when things should be normalised, but more and more things are being managed by the lobbies and not by the government. Thank you so much for that. We don't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We are voting on the bill as a whole. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda – the second consideration of the proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Construction of Buildings in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal for amendments to the Construction Act is not suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Here we have now, thank God, two such laws, one after the other. This is also one of the laws that should not be dealt with and I can say here that it is good that we have found on the committee that such a law is not appropriate and that we will collectively reject it. So, we really need to ask ourselves what we've been dealing with lately in the National Assembly. I would say to those who are a little bit of a joke and a little bit of a joke, that in this terribly important law, such as this, that the Prime Minister should probably tie a secret to him, but I say that some just say so, some more for a joke and a little bit really. We will support such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u204	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I would like to say that we have probably come to a very similar thought on the committee by all representatives of all the parliamentary groups. In fact, the law of what it is, the Construction Act, already allows construction in its own direction and is just a matter of inspections, both construction and work as well as some other, which can verify whether construction is really in its own direction or not. The law already prescribes building supervision, it is said that this does not need to be sharpened and that this law was unnecessary. If we adopted it and considered it a bill suitable for consideration today, we would end up finding that we are completely needlessly disturbing the entire Slovenian electoral body. And that is why we have also opposed this law to moving forward and we — I must say — 14 votes in favour and no one has opposed the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that is why, of course, our Group of Members will now vote in favour of such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. Franco Yuri, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, really, I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. I know that it is not necessary and that we can vote because this time we will unanimously reject the law by voting for such a decision. This has been clear since the very beginning, we have been defined as a parliamentary group at the beginning of the procedure or before the procedure begins, we have advised the government to come to the National Assembly with such a law because it makes no sense, is just a waste of time and we will all vote against it. The government did so on the line of least resistance given that it negotiated with the second category, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. But the fact is that this law is unnecessary, probably the government did not expect us to support it enthusiastically, and this indicates the importance of dividing the power of the legislature and the executive branch; in this case, the legislative authority clearly and uniformly says no to such a law. The Zares Group will also vote in favour of the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? This has already been done, Mr. Tanko. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? Above all, it shall be reasoned on its behalf when the vote is contrary to the position of the Group of Members. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. The law is not necessary, nor is the applicant needed, so I will vote in favour and also in favour of early elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Well, that was also an explanation for the stock, thank you very much. Anybody else want some? So we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
