ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Melita Župevc, Dr. Luke Yuri and Alan Bukovnik. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received a draft agenda yesterday. Seven. 2011 with reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of South Sudan. The draft decision was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in order to recognise the new State of the Republic of South Sudan. In accordance with the provisions of the 2005 peace agreement between North and South Sudan, the people of South Sudan had the right to decide their future in the framework of Sudan or in the framework of an independent State of South Sudan during a transitional period of six years. The referendum on the secession of South Sudan took place between 9 and 15 January this year and 98.83% of the population voted in favour of independence. In the opinion of international observers, including observers of the European Union, the referendum took place in a calm and credible manner and was positively assessed. In the Abyei border region, the referendum has been postponed and the status of this region has not yet been definitively established. We welcomed the successful implementation of the referendum both in Slovenia and in the European Union and assessed it as a sign of the maturity of the political forces and the people of South Sudan as well as Sudan. In doing so, we have expressed our full respect for the decision taken by the electorate. With the declaration of independence on 9 July, both the Member States and the European Union themselves welcomed the new country. Of course, the establishment of South Sudan's independence is not the end of the road. Many questions remained to be raised among the countries. Among those most needed for resolution are the border issue, the issue of citizenship and issues related to oil sector management. We are also following developments in the South Kordofan region with care and concern. The role of the international community is to help countries resolve these issues as quickly as possible in a peaceful and mutually satisfactory way that will enable them to live in peace and good neighbourly relations between the people of both countries. The Security Council has already adopted a resolution last week that allows the deployment of UN peacekeeping units in Abyei as well as the establishment of a peacekeeping mission in South Sudan. The Republic of Slovenia may also be involved in the efforts of the international community. Representatives of the Republic of South Sudan are interested in the Slovenian experience of the transition to independence and, in particular, in issues relating to the establishment of their own currency and inheritance. Dear Members! South Sudan declared independence on Saturday, 9 July 2011, on the day of the 6-year transitional period. Following the call by the State of the Republic of South Sudan of the international community to grant it full international legal personality. Based on its own experience and rights, the Republic of Slovenia in foreign policy respects the right of peoples to self-determination. That is why we respect and welcome the democratic decision of the South Sudan voters to establish an independent, independent state. The UN Security Council will decide today on the recommendation for the adoption of the country of South Sudan in the UN, and the vote in the UN General Assembly itself on the membership of that country is expected to take place on Thursday, 14 July 2011. Slovenia has consistently supported the political processes in Sudan, which have led to the peaceful disengagement and declaration of independence of South Sudan after 10 years of conflict. We therefore want to vote in favour of the membership of the Republic of South Sudan in the United Nations on 14 July 2011. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, I therefore propose and call for you to take a decision on the recognition of the Republic of South Sudan as an independent and sovereign State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Janji Klasinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-worker! This morning, the Committee on Foreign Policy, at its 65th emergency meeting, addressed the Proposal for a Decision on the Recognition of the Independence and Sovereignty of the Republic of South Sudan, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly. At the meeting, Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar said that the Republic of South Sudan declared independence on Saturday, 9 July 2011, and a vote on the recognition of this 193rd country of the world will take place in the UN General Assembly on 14 July 2011. The Government therefore considered it appropriate for Slovenia to adopt an act on the recognition of the new State before the vote in the General Assembly. Slovenia will thus be among the first countries to recognise South Sudan, which was created by secession from Sudan in accordance with the 2005 General Peace Agreement. This set out a six-year transitional period after which the inhabitants could decide on the secession of South Sudan. The Minister has just said that the referendum was held in January and that almost 99% of voters voted in favour of secession. Mr Žbogar said that the new country is facing a number of challenges and some unresolved issues with Sudan. There are still conflicts within the countries in Darfur, South Kordofan and the oil-rich disputed border area of Abyei Province, where a referendum on its status should also be held, but it has been postponed for an indefinite period of time due to recent violence. With regard to this province, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution on the maintenance of peace until the referendum is held. With regard to the distribution of natural resources and oil revenues, there is a disagreement with Kartum, since there are three quarters of all oil and infrastructure and oil pipelines in southern Sudan are in the north. The issue of citizenship remains unresolved between the north and the south, as Sudan has taken citizenship from all Southern Sudanese people. All of this can lead to new conflicts, and on 8 July the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution establishing a mission in southern Sudan of 7,000 blue helmet members and 900 civil servants. The Minister said that Slovenia would consider possible cooperation in this mission. Members expressed their support for the immediate recognition of South Sudan's independence and sovereignty resulting from a long and bloody civil war, thereby recognising the legitimate right of the people to self-determination. In particular, it has been pointed out that in recent times, economic interests have been increasingly gaining ground in international relations, but that there is still a need to strive for values such as peace, prosperity and respect for human rights. Many years of efforts by the late Dr. Janez Drnovšek and Tom Križnar to resolve the situation in this area have also been mentioned. With this positive attitude, Slovenia also expresses its commitment to the implementation of the European Union's common foreign policy, which has expressed full respect for the outcome of the referendum and adopted a political framework for action towards Sudan and South Sudan. The members of the Committee have unanimously adopted the proposed decision and we therefore propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of South Sudan be adopted in the text tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please. Mr. Urh, just a moment. Procedurally, Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President! I respectfully request that you arrange for an official copy – a list of opinions or opinions, views of the groups of Members and individuals in such a way that they are appropriate. I don't know what the reason would be if now there is confusion in the coalition, who is where, please don't place our colleague in other political options. As far as I know, Miran Györek is still a member of the Slovenian National Party, not of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Since this is official paper, I'm asking you to make this paper the way it's supposed to be, unless you know more than I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich was a mistake. With Miran Györek, it should be SNS, it happens. On behalf of the professional services, leadership, the wider and narrower National Assembly, I sincerely apologize to you and to Miran Györek for this error and I promise that it will not happen again until at least September 1st. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Urh, if you continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! With such a jubilee as we celebrate the Slovenians this year, it can be a pleasure and an honour to welcome, recognize and accept a new member of the international community in the international space. Of course, our passage from independence and independence cannot be compared to the calvary that the Southern Sudanese survived during the long years of the bloody civil war between the north and the south so that they could finally confirm the desire for secession at this year's referendum almost unanimously and opt for a separate path. This will certainly not be easy, but with the support and assistance of other countries, international institutions and integrations we can be sure that long-term dreams will be easier and realized in a better tomorrow. First of all, the continued efforts of this young country and Sudan to resolve all outstanding issues peacefully and constructively between them will be very important. At the same time, it is important for them to have friendly and respectful relations between themselves, neighbours and all other countries in relation to the new country, and for everyone to take up and fully exercise respect for fundamental human rights, freedoms and values. This will also make it easier to ensure the economic and social development of South Sudan, which, given its natural nature, has every opportunity to succeed and to exploit these potentials for the well-being of its inhabitants. In the DeSUS Group, we will unanimously support the decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of South Sudan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellows! In the Slovenian National Party, we have never had any problems with peoples and nations who have been defined by their own will as a nation and as a country. At the very least, we have such problems if, on the basis of the General Peace Agreement in South Sudan, a referendum on secession was held, on which almost 100% of them decided to secede to South Sudan. We have absolutely no problem with that. The more important it is to mention Slovenia and the European Union, if we have to give international legal personality, the more important it is for all of us to finally have peace in this country, that we do not see and see and suffer from the visible suffering, the calming of children due to hunger and disease, the constant seas and wars. This is the reason why the State of the Republic of Slovenia should recognise South Sudan regardless of the rest. At the same time, as always, I must also express the concerns of the Slovenian National Party that we obviously have different recognition vats in this country. When the Americans stood back, we were among the first, we ran and recognised Kosovo, we are a little slower here because we have to, because in two days there will be another important act. At the same time, we have warned and already in writing that the State of the Republic of Slovenia should be subject to the same rules and the same attitude towards people who want self-determination. Such an example, as we have pointed out, is also Abkhazia and South Ossetia, where there are a few different countries in the back and, of course, Slovenia obviously does not have to act with the same criteria, with the same attitude and heart towards people and their self-determination. This is wrong, this is not credible and it is not fair to Slovenia, because the reputation of Slovenia worldwide is falling. South Sudan will be a country of peace where children will go to school, not dying of ease, and where there will be no more horrors and seas that are not even seen in Hollywood's greatest horrors. Let us hope that this is the case and that we will help this peace and prosperity in the Slovenian National Party, and I will also say to the beautiful people who live in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Your Honor! It must be those who think that we are one of the few countries in Parliament that recognise the autonomy of individual countries. Others do this to governments and I think it would be right in Slovenia to change the law that would impose on the Government in the framework of the Law on Foreign Affairs to do these things. Because we have some experience from the past mandate, especially when it comes to recognition of Montenegro and recognition of Kosovo, we know some of the notable complications that have occurred with the recognition of Kosovo when it is believed that pressure has been exerted on the Republic of Slovenia, which has not been successful, and then Afghanistan has recognised Kosovo first, which was surprising for many in view of the failure of the country of Afghanistan at that time, but this is the case. There is absolutely no doubt for us, and there is no question as to whether, after it has been made clear that the international community has agreed and based on the standards applicable to the fulfilment of the rights of the countries of the areas which have the opportunity to implement their own decision to do so on the basis of the procedure. This South Sudan referendum has shown more than what has been understood through, that it is a real crisis for Sudanese people living in South Sudan and that without them coming to their country, it is not the end of the sea for them, it is not the end of everything that has happened in that area. Regrettably, the victims of great powers and those who yearn for national wealth are behind the wealth that is expressed in raw materials, oil, and similar things. It is more than obvious that the great, greatest forces in the world are being fought there, who will have greater influence and will exhaust more wealth for these poor people, and that is why we have supported this recognition in the Liberal Democracy since the beginning. Unfortunately, however, it is possible that this procedure is that the Government and then the National Assembly must rush and call extraordinary meetings. The government could certainly do this more effectively, and I believe that we will have a law that will allow this to happen in the future. In the Liberal Democracy, we welcome this decision of the Republic of Slovenia, and we hope that we will also soon establish diplomatic contacts with South Sudan and all that because it is one of the needs of countries in relation to other countries when it comes to the exercise of their interests. I believe that Slovenia has something to offer to South Sudan and can also exercise its interests in this area. We'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members has no problems when it comes to supporting a nation that has decided with more than 98% positive decisions on independence and independence of South Sudan. We will support the decision on the table and we have no interest in Slovenia's interest in what a journalist asked me today. We do not need a particular interest in supporting people who have lived in the civil war for years, where there has been some kind of genocide against the Nubian people and so on. It is therefore a principled view for us to respect the decision of people who want to live alone, and we will support it. In this particular case, however, we are concerned by the fact that we have learned from the media that there is still no peace in the northern part of the country, where some kind of genocide is being carried out over the Nubian people as some kind of revenge for the secession of the southern part. We sincerely hope that the United Nations will ensure the presence of international units that will stop this violence and help these people survive and, of course, ensure the lasting peace that is likely to result from the secession and establishment of their independent country in South Sudan. This way, of course, in this part of Africa, life becomes bearable, without violence and, of course, makes social progress possible. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will be pleased to support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janja Klasinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Like our colleague Žnidaršič said, we are guided by the same goals. We absolutely support the recognition of South Sudan as an independent state. On Saturday, 9 million South Sudanese people were happy to support this independence, and not by chance, for 50 years they sought this independence. After they entered into an agreement with North Sudan, they had a referendum in which they had even better results than the Slovenians had, which is difficult. This is said to have been supported by almost 99% of the participants in the referendum. That's why it's no wonder we support it. I must say, we Slovenians have been connected to this end of the world for many years. Our humanitarian Tomo Križnar is fighting unselfishly for the people there to survive as easily as possible. If you hadn't organised an action to distribute film cameras that are recording and representing these terrible crimes to the world, maybe the announcement just now wouldn't have been accepted with so much support from the world public, because you probably wouldn't even know what's going on there. They also meant a great deal of commitment and support for late President Janez Drnovšk, who warned not only Slovenian but also the international public about the genocide in Darfur. Since Slovenia respects the right of the nations to self-determination, which has also allowed the Slovenian people their own statehood, we believe that it is right today to recognize the sovereignty and independence of this 54th African country among the first. In doing so, I would like to point out that I cannot agree with my colleague Barovic, who said that we did this for someone else. No, we did it for ourselves. Slovenia was also not among the first to recognise Kosovo, but it is certainly among the first to recognise South Sudan if we do so today. While many challenges await the newest member of the international community, we expect Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan to find solutions in order not only to participate well in the distribution of oil spoils, but also to prevent genocide in the northern part of South Sudan and the southern part of North Sudan, that is to say in the border areas where our compatriot Tomo Križnar reports these days. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Social Democrats, as I have already said, welcome the declaration of independence of the Republic of South Sudan and congratulate the people of South Sudan on this historic event. The proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of this Republic will, of course, be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, we support the decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the new State of the Republic of South Sudan, which is based on the referendum decision of the people of South Sudan. Which brings us more emotionally closer to the legitimate wishes of the people of South Sudan as they associate with the establishment of our country. At the beginning of the new country, which was created on the basis of the self-determination and unanimous decision of the people of South Sudan, it must be said that this is also the duty of our country, since the 1999 Declaration on Foreign Policy states that Slovenia respects the rights of peoples to self-determination. We are proud to have proposed this commitment in the Declaration on Foreign Policy at that time from the SDS Parliamentary Group with an amendment to the declaration, because the then government policy on this principle has been overly and cynically forgotten, although this is one of the foundations of our country. In the Group of Members, we are also convinced that the emergence of a new state is at least a small contribution to peace in the world, because Sudan is shared, which has been practically always the destination of civil war since its independence in 1956. The first lasted from 1955 to 1972, and then virtually continued the second one, which is permanent today. This is also partly due to colonial policies and divisions, as colonial powers have not nearly anywhere in the world divided countries along ethnic borders and in accordance with the will of the people. Today, Sudan is the intersection of the interests of the great powers. The country is rich according to its natural characteristics, it has oil, but of course it is extremely underdeveloped. We firmly believe that this establishment of the independence of South Sudan solves some issues and will be the basis for a more peaceful future for both countries. The Group hopes that a referendum on self-determination of Abyei will be held in the future in accordance with the General Peace Agreement of January 2005. This will be the basis for lasting peace in this part of Sudan and it will also be a just solution. The emergence and recognition of a new country will have a positive impact on the possibility of resolving international conflicts, but it will also warn dictators that the policy of force does not pay or pay off. The will of the people, the desire for democracy, their own country, and the full identity at the end of the battle is overcome by such bloodthirsty dictators or dictatorships. For all of this it is right that Slovenia quickly recognises the new Republic of South Sudan and we vote in favour of its membership in the UN on 14 July. With this we will join the joy of the people of South Sudan, whose people practically all served when the flag was lifted of their own country, as they do not report that any of the important citizens would boycott the declaration of independence. Once again, we will be happy to support this recognition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The recognition of the new South Sudan State is self-evident. Naturally because of our history, sensitivity to such cases of self-determination and because, after all, Slovenia has done much with Sudan. The former president, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, celebrated his quest for lasting peace in that restless part of Africa. Sudan is also aware of the inconvenient work of humanitarian Tom Križnar, with whom I had a telephone conversation prior to this meeting. It's in Juba. I asked him what I thought. He said that recognition must be, but at the same time Slovenia must launch all diplomatic actions to stop what is already happening along the border between the new country and Sudan. In Juba, Križnar also contacted President Sudan Al Bashir. He gave him photographs that prove that unfortunately there are killings at the Sudan and South Sudan border at South Kordofan in the Nuba people's area, where a Balkan scenario, which we know from the times of rapid bordering in the former Yugoslavia, is promising. The new country is based on a referendum carried out in 2005. Before that, there was a long civil war. The legitimate right of the Southern Sudanese is to live in their country and to allow for normalisation of the situation in the area of Sudan where the war is still taking place. This will not be easy and will not be possible without the active involvement of the international community. Slovenia launched one such initiative in 1999. At that time, she demanded that the United Nations send observers to the Nuba Mountains, and that happened. This was Slovenia's initiative, this has happened and the presence of these observers has at least temporarily ceased the admiration of Sudanese paramilitary and military groups in the Nuba Mountains. I think it is time for a new similar initiative, recognition is important, but it is not enough. It will certainly be necessary to maintain this consistency with other emerging countries. On the agenda of the General Assembly in September will also be the recognition of the Palestinian State, and I hope and hope that in September we will sit at a meeting of the National Assembly and we will also decide on the recognition of the Palestinian State by the Republic of Slovenia. This is what they expect there, and they are united about it, and they want this recognition, for without it there will be no peace in the Middle East. The Zares Group welcomes the immediate recognition of the new African state. At the same time, it calls on Slovenia to engage as actively as possible with the support of some of the initiatives given by Tomo Križnar himself, such as sending the necessary technology, cameras and those of the famous humanitarian aid pumps to Darfur. Darfur is located just north-west of the newly created country, and unfortunately there are still massive human rights violations. Al Bashir is still a criminal who must be handed over to an international court. For now, pragmatism does not allow this. He was at the party, he was there, he confessed to the state, but the question is, what's going to happen at the border? This border is rich in raw materials and, as someone has already said, there are the interests of various greatness there and will probably shape the fate of any arbitration for the border. Let us also help with our good experiences.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues, the president, Mr. Minister! Members of the Slovenian People's Party are pleased to support the decision of the Republic of Slovenia to recognise the Republic of South Sudan as an independent and sovereign state among the first to recognise the Republic of South Sudan. The successful implementation of the referendum, of course, reflects the political maturity of the people of Sudan, but they are ready for a long journey and, of course, we hope that they will also succeed in the development of their independent and sovereign state. After decades of monitoring conflicts, events in Darfur and, of course, many victims, this event on the African continent has been a bright ray of hope in dealing with crisis situations in this area. Of course, in the referendum, 98.83% of the voters for independence are one of the specialities with such a huge percentage of independence. But that's not surprising. After 50 years of conflict with the north, we hope that they will be able to solve as soon as possible the many challenges ahead of us on this path to independence. First of all, it is important to establish lasting peace, because without it there is no stable development and improvement of social indicators in one of the poorest countries in the world. We hope that a better social development will be facilitated by an early agreement with the North – the Deployment Charter, as has already been said today, of natural wealth. We would also like to see the international recognition of the new country as soon as possible in order to achieve a more successful agreement. Since we have just celebrated our country's 20th birthday in the Republic of Slovenia, a comparison is offered in itself, but perhaps only in 2 segments. One of these is during the longer period of preparing and giving birth to a desire for independence. And another such comparison can only be likened to a high percentage of the people's determination for an independent, independent and sovereign state. It is sad that nations and countries must come to democracy over and over again through bloody victims. But when we do have democracy, we do not appreciate it very much at home. It is also right to look back at what is most important in the world in addition to human life, and that is peace and freedom. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will vote in favour of recognition, while at the same time congratulating the people of South Sudan for such high-level unity in the referendum, which also shows the determination to make their destiny from now on as citizens of the independent and independent South Sudan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has only Bevk, to prepare Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the conclusion that the Republic of Slovenia recognises the Republic of South Sudan as an independent and sovereign state. The Republic of South Sudan was at first part of the British and Egyptian condominium at the time of colonialism. In 1956, the state gained its independence as the Republic of Sudan. In this area, 2 civil wars lasted for more than 2 decades, and in 2005 South Sudan gained autonomy after more than 20 years of war and more than millions of victims. At the referendum held between January 9th and January 15th, almost 99 voters and voters voted in favour of the independent State of the Republic of South Sudan. After such a violent and bloody history, we can only wish that both countries — both Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan — could solve all the problems that have accumulated in more than half a century’s history and 54th African countries — we can only wish happiness on its next path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler, to prepare Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. If it is not difficult for anyone and any country — to support the sovereignty and independence of a country such as South Sudan — it is to be said that, according to our own history, of course, we respect the nation’s right to self - determination to the fullest extent possible. We have also stressed in our own determination that this right of the people to self-determination cannot ever be consumed. Today we are also talking about the emerging country facing the longest civil war in Africa. As my forerunner has already said, this civil war has turned out to be an inhumanely large number of victims. Slovenia is certainly the one who will welcome all the efforts of the international community to bring about peace, justice, democracy and, of course, poverty reduction. For all of this, the European Union, specifically the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and on 20 June, foreign ministers – including ours – adopted a special approach to South Sudan and Sudan. This approach also shows the active role strategically played by the European Union in the area of common security and foreign policy. It is true that the Slovenians are also proactive in this regard and that we are also trying to help and contribute to the implementation of this common, external and security policy of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the word to prepare Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I think that the birth of each country is an extraordinary event, and I think it is an extraordinary event for Slovenia, when it can clearly say that it agrees with the establishment of South Sudan as a sovereign state. If we say that every country's creation is a story for itself, it is certainly a unique story for both Slovenia and Sudan. Above all, I think that we all really want peace to prevail in this part of the world, but that many of the procedures that go in a direction that no one wants have already lost their lives in this space. Last but not least, when you find that they have natural powers to organise their country in a successful way, it seems to me that this is a unique opportunity to give them this opportunity by our decision. Of course, all of this is also an important challenge for the European Union in particular, so that I hope that the European Union will also share in these procedures in particular positive experiences in the creation of independent and sovereign countries and that the future organisation of Southern Sudan will, of course, reflect this policy of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative, Minister? They don't want to. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The Republic of Slovenia recognises the Republic of South Sudan as an independent and sovereign state." We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 12 July 2011 at 7.47 p.m.
