ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! Please take your seats. We are waiting for the President of the Republic, Dr. Danil Türk, and the President of the National Assembly. Dear President, Dr Danilo Türk and the President of the National Assembly, Mr Germić, welcome to the National Assembly! / anthem/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u2	I give the floor to Mr. Jozet Tank on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Vaclav Havel, a writer, politician, humanist, who marked European history and also inspired Slovenian spring. A great European has said good-bye, fighting against communism, fighting for freedom of speech and fighting for human rights at home and around the world. Like Dr. Jože Pučnik in Slovenia or Leh Walensa in Poland, he was at the forefront of democratic processes, which, when sufficient energy was gathered for the necessary democratic changes, had finally destroyed the Berlin Wall, both physically and in the minds of Europeans. I suggest we say goodbye to the great writer and statesman for a minute of silence. / minute silence/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u4	Glory be to his memory! Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr President! I give the floor to Mr Ljub Germić, President of the National Assembly, to address the Members and Members. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u5	Dear Mr President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, welcome to the 1st meeting of the National Assembly and thank you for speaking to us on this occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, the newly elected Members and Members, allow me to welcome you to the House of Democracy! Nice welcome to the President of the National Election Commission! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to congratulate all newly elected Members and Members on this occasion on their election. During the first early national elections, you have gained confidence in people that in the coming period you are taking solutions that will mean a better life for all of us, that our children will live better and that our parents will live better. You come from different backgrounds. You bring with you different experiences, different knowledge and different knowledge, and let this diversity enrich this high house. In doing so, you should be guided by the well-being of citizens and citizens to seek the best solutions to the challenges not only of our country's challenges but also of the global world today. I am sure you have enough knowledge to be able to find good solutions, but for the wisdom of your decision, based on the reasoned debates and culture of dialogue and tolerance, always use your heart, because only the combination of all of this means wisdom in decisions. Let me tell you all the good things about it. A lot of patience, wisdom at your work, and good luck to you! Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u6	Mr Ljubo Germić, President of the National Assembly, I thank you for your address. Dear Members and Members! I begin the 1st meeting of the National Assembly, convened by the President of the Republic of Denmark, Dr Danilo Türk, on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, who will also address the National Assembly. Mr. President, please. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u7	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen! Today is an important day. In front of our public, our countries are being established a national assembly. The National Assembly, which is offered a unique opportunity to open a new chapter in our history. It's an opportunity, and it's an emergency. We need serious changes. However, the decisions to make these changes really possible are largely the responsibility of this national assembly. The past three years have been a time of global economic crisis, which continues and even deepens. There was also a time of our own political and economic weaknesses, disagreements and political blockades. Therefore, despite some of the achievements we have at home and in the neighbourhood, we cannot be satisfied with the current situation. We need changes and a break with our bad practices. The fact that the Council of State of the past fifth reference has not completed its four-year mandate is a reminder that it is necessary to work differently and better in the future. But let us also look at the encouraging aspects of today’s situation. These aren't enough, and they're important. First. Good electoral participation in the recent early elections in the National Assembly has shown that citizens and citizens trust in democracy and the ability of policy to find the right way out of the crisis. In times like these today, it is a powerful confidant and a great responsibility. The votes received by the electorate are an expression of high expectations and confidence — trust that needs to be justified. Next. In international development comparisons, Slovenia enjoys a good position. Our sovereign debt is among the lowest in Europe. While our budget deficit is worrying, it can be reduced within a few years at the level foreseen by the fiscal agreement within the European Union. Social indicators place us in the most egalitarian and socially just countries in Europe. We have developed solidarity, responsibility and understanding among people. All of these are advantages that will help to find a way forward. And finally. We have an opportunity to prove our common political maturity. This is, in my opinion, bigger than the daily political conflicts and media-attractive affairs. Now is the time to move away from these stories and devote ourselves to the essential tasks of our time. The National Assembly has great responsibility for this urgent movement that we need in our political practice. Our key problems at this time are reflected at the level of decisions concerning the economy and development. In economic matters, it is necessary to achieve a higher level of professional competence and responsibility for decisions, both those needed directly to overcome the crisis and those which will determine our long-term development. More than ever before, it is necessary to focus on the problems of young people, to enable them to live their own lives, to create families, and to participate productively in the development of society. Our time dictates the realization that giving up is also necessary, but not to shorten one another and enrich others. Denouncing must be measured in a wise and fair manner, with understanding and agreement, that a certain waiver is necessary because of our joint improvement. We need more justice and the rule of law and the rule of law. Such an understanding of tasks also necessarily requires a higher quality of the political process. Higher than the one we know from the recent past. The decisive aspects of this political process will take place right here in the National Assembly, the highest decision-making body of our country and the House of its legislative power. Let us imagine, when we remember party overtures and political blockades from past legislative times, that we should not allow this mechanic to take over again. The National Assembly should become a place of patient dialogue, responsible negotiations and informed decisions. Of course, we will understand that it is not always possible to reach consensus when making decisions, but that compromise and consensus should always be the first thought and the ultimate command to find solutions. Everything must be done to ensure that the decisions are good and convincing, and they, and this is particularly true, must be followed by determination in their implementation. Once our public recognises these efforts, confidence will be strengthened and public support for political decisions will be increased. Dear Members and Members! You should also be guided by a good understanding of international circumstances when making your decision. Slovenia is a respected and valued country in Europe and around the world. A lot more than we're willing to admit to ourselves. This should be an important incentive for bold decision-making on all the development issues to be addressed, as well as for foreign policy work. In particular, international circumstances are complicated due to the difficulties the EU is facing in finding answers to the current financial and economic crisis. When searching for these answers, we must cooperate constructively and take care of our national interest. Slovenia has joined the euro area with a vision of its long-term development, and in these difficult situations it must be able to understand the situation in its European environment and in the world, while at the same time drawing its development path towards a more technologically advanced and economically successful society, to a higher level of prosperity for its people and to a higher link with the world. This is our national interest in the general lines. Of course, it is the determination of its specific contents that requires much work and negotiation and, if possible, the path of consensus. As with any other country, Slovenia is considered to be a national interest in what we are able to agree on and for what we are able to do. Deal and effort, we'll both need it. Dear Members and Members! We are living in times that require a lot of thought and country-building, and this must always be expressed, all from your first decisions forward. Ethical attitudes and decisions by their conscience are more important than ever. Personal ambitions and the fights for prestige are not desirable and citizens will not reward them with confidence. The interests of the country as a whole must be at the forefront, our common interest, and this should always have priority over personal and client accounts. I believe that the Sixth Congress will respond well to the challenges of time. There is a great multitude of you, and of the Members, who for the first time occupy the sent-off bench. This is encouraging, as it shows the ability of the Slovenian political space to restore itself on a reasonable and democratic path, thus ensuring the change of political generations. It is particularly encouraging that the recent elections have greatly increased the participation of women in our national assembly, and this has also brought our highest decision-making body closer to those standards of advanced democracy that we are trying to reach and which our people deserve. And all of this inspires trust. I congratulate all of you on your election to the National Assembly, with the best wishes for your successful work and for the common good of our country. Thank you for your attention. And once again, I wish you every success in your responsible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u8	I sincerely thank the President of the State, Dr. Daniel Türk. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm informed that no one has apologized for today's session. In doing so, I ask two Members or two Members or one Member and one Member, who have not yet communicated their presence, to me they have told me that this moment is all settled. [[...]] I can see that we have accepted all the certificates on the election of Members and Members. I will be assisted by Mrs Mojca Prelesnik, Secretary-General of the National Assembly, and Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General. We are moving on to the agenda for the 1st meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and received by letter of 16 December 2011. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Member of the national communities have set out the following draft agenda: 1. Appointment of the President and the Presidents of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. 2. Confirmation of the terms of office of Members. 3. Elections of the President of the National Assembly. 4. Elections of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. No proposals for withdrawal of items or items from the agenda have been submitted. We are moving on to consideration and proposals to expand the agenda. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Member of the national communities shall propose to the assembly that the agenda be extended by means of a proposal for a decree establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly and by appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together and vote separately on each proposal. You received the motion on the bench. Would a representative of the proposers want to expand the word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, does the representative of the motioners want an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on proposals for extending the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. I ask all present Members and Members to insert cards in the voting devices and check their operation so that an orange or red light burns on the right side of the card. Please, once again, when we begin to decide that you will decide then, because you do not have to vote after the end of the decision. I am putting to the vote a proposal for an extension of the agenda, this is the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, for 62, for 25. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This agenda item will later be treated as item 5 of the agenda. I am voting on the proposal to extend the agenda by appointing the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members, 63, 26. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and will be considered as item 6 of the agenda. We are now voting on the agenda as a whole. I suggest that you accept today's agenda as you have received it with reference to the meeting and with the amendments or additions adopted. We're voting. I take it that you have decided and adopted the agenda with 63 votes in favour and 2 against. [[for the vote 63]] [[Against 2]] I take it the agenda for the first meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the agenda, this shall be the appointment of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Management-voluntary Commission. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Member of the national communities at the meeting on 16 December 2011 decided that the post of President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission shall belong to the Group of Positive Slovenia and that the Vice-Presidents of the Commission shall be appointed to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Group of the National Gazette of Gregor Virant. The interim head of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia announced that Janko Jani Möderndorfer was proposed as chairman of the Commission, and the interim head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposed Ms Sonja Ramšak as Vice-President, and the interim head of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Gregor Virant, proposed Mr Richard Branisl as Vice-President. You have received a motion for a decision appointing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Mandate-Election Commission on the bench. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. A representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group shall have the floor. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! What we watch and follow these days, Slovenia does not deserve. Even with excessive attacks on the Slovenian Democratic Party and contributions on North Korea, it cannot be hidden that due to the struggle for prestige on the left the relative winner of the List of Zoran Jankovic – Positive Slovenia has not prepared anything for twenty days. There is no coalition for a constitutional session, nor does it officially know who the biggest opposition party is to propose at least to the Vice-President. We struggle with the working bodies of the National Assembly, and the biggest customer comes with unusual suggestions and ideas. So it started out bad. So far, in all previous mandates, we have had a clear picture of who or who will be in the coalition or in the opposition in the constitution of the National Assembly. Previous relative winners made timely progress, were more skilled, more reasonable, more tolerant of partners, joined with more political breadth and also with greater softness. Everything has also been more public, transparent, and no one has been excluded in advance by mandate-holders. And at the time of the constitution of the National Assembly, at least all fundamental matters were resolved in principle. In this mandate, although the deadlines for the establishment of the National Assembly are running out and the general situation is particularly poor, it is still unclear who is in the coalition and who will be in the opposition. Some want to join the coalition, but they don't want them, others defend them, and in any way, SDS has already ruled out the relative winner, Mr Jankovic, already in the pre-election campaign. These days, it's pretty obvious who's making a big deal out of who. We see that there is no minimum chemistry either between those who are supposed to form a coalition – between Mr Jankovic and Mr Pahor. How, then, can others be drawn to such an announced team to show their enthusiasm? It has turned out that the composition of the coalition is not only as simple or as very simple as we have heard many times in various shows. Even for Mr Jankovic, it is not that simple. You can't take it that easily and be so full of yourself. And above all, for a solid coalition, it is not only the winner’s awareness that he has won or that he has won a relative victory. There is a lot more to be done and, above all, a lot more patience. It has also been shown in the composition of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that the problem of taking into account the rules of procedure of the National Assembly will be a problem. Even further work on the composition of the working bodies has only deepened this problem. It is obvious that a relative winner interprets these business rules in his own way. And whenever he throws this "Marjanko" on the table, this "Marjanca" always turns around saying, "Take it all." As if the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly did not provide that seats and leading functions in working bodies should be divided in proportion to the results of the elections. I think that much more informed and calm decisions will need to be taken and that we will have to stick to what we have in this house as a basis — this is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly — and act and decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Everything else will present great problems, both for the work of the National Assembly and in other areas. It is important to know that everything begins and ends in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Gregor Virant. Mr. Richard Braniselle, please. [[He's quitting.]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is also no debate between Members and Members. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we unanimously confirmed the proposal. On the basis of the decision taken on the number of seats on the Commission belonging to the individual group of Members and Members of the national community, the temporary heads of the groups and Members of the national community have communicated the names of Members, Members and Members of the Commission. Thus, the nineteen-member membership of the Commission is the following: Janko Jani Möderndorfer, Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia – President, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party – Vice-President, Mr Richard Braniselj, Parliamentary Group of the National List of Gregor Virant – Vice-President. The members of the commission are: from the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia Alenka Pavlič, Jerko Čehovin, Maša Kociper, mag. Melita Župevc, Renata Brunskole, of the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation Group Jože Tanko, Eva Irgl, Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Andrej Vizjak, of the Group of Social Democrats Matjaž Han, Samo Bevk, of the Group of Nationals of Gregor Virant Mag. Truda Cinderella, from the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of France Jurša, from the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party Jakob Presečnik, from the New Slovenia Group Ljudmila Novak and from the National Communities' Group Dr. László Göncz. I hereby conclude this agenda item. For the preparation of the 2nd item of the agenda, the Mandate-Volution Commission shall meet immediately in a large lounge opposite the Great Hall. Members of the committee, please take with you the material you received on the bench in connection with item 2 of the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll pick her up at 11:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u11	Please take your seats. We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — CONFIRMATION OF THE MANDATES OF THE DEPUTY. You received a report from the Mandate-Voluntary Commission with the State Election Commission report on the bench. I note that, until the beginning of the meeting, no complaints were lodged with the candidates or representatives of the lists. I would like to ask the President of the Commission, Mr Janko Möderndorfer, to submit a report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u12	Your Honor! The term-of-law committee shall be held at the first session of the 21st session. 12. In accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Law on Members and Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 2011 reviewed the report on the outcome of the elections and the certificate of election of members of the National Assembly. The Commission also reviewed the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the early election of Members to the National Assembly and the electoral certificates of Members, and on this basis concluded the following. At the early election of Members of the National Assembly 4. 12. Pursuant to Article 90, 61 mandates were issued and 61 candidates were elected on the basis of Article 91; the remaining 27 mandates were allocated at national level under Articles 92 and 93. One candidate was elected a representative of the Italian National Community and a representative of the Hungarian National Community. The election certificate was submitted by 90 elected candidates to the Mandate-Electorial Commission and 3 elected candidates did not submit the original election certificate and their identity was established. On the basis of Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the General Assembly, the Commission shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the following decision shall be adopted: The terms of office of all members of the Assembly elected at the early elections on 4 December 2011 shall be confirmed following the list of elected candidates for Members, which shall form an integral part of the report of the Mandate-Election Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u13	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Gregor Virant. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! For the first time in the National Assembly, I am proud and happy to have a sense of great responsibility. Although I am new in politics and our client is new, I am not afraid of the challenges ahead, but I look forward to them because I am convinced that we have the right answers to the key questions of our future in the Citizens' List of Gregor Virant. But I'm aware that, like me, you believe your program and team are the best. However, Slovenia does not own Jankovic, Janševa, Pahorjeva, Žerjavova, Erjavčev or Ludmila Novak, nor Virantova, Slovenia is our joint task and it is our task, so people have chosen us to find such a common language among us so that we can work for the good of the countries and our people. I was 13 years old when Slovenia was born alone. In fact, I was barely aware of the world around me, but I remember that politicians were united in that important period for Slovenia. Today, after 20 years, Slovenia is like human life in general. During the 20 years, a lot of beautiful, good and excellent things have come together, and unfortunately even a few less pleasant, missed projects, wrong decisions. In addition, we have been hit by a financial, economic and social crisis, stronger than some other countries. There is no longer room for personal disputes and political disputes. It is time to step together and do what needs to be done to get the country out of the crisis. If ever, then we need a coalition of joint projects and measures and not an ideological coalition. As a representative of the younger generation, I would like not to overburden the next generation with debts, so as to take away opportunities and perspectives for them to realize their talents. I want our children to grow up in Slovenia with thousands of opportunities, in a safe Slovenia where solidarity is high on a scale of values. This will be easier to achieve if we, no matter what political options we come from, are able to squander species and vote for good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Katarina Hotchevar. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Reported for discussion. It follows from the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that there are no mandates at stake, so I am putting to the vote the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in full and therefore we are voting together on the approval of all the nineties mandates of Members and Members. We're voting. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has been fully adopted and all ninety terms of reference have been confirmed. Congratulations to all of you, and I wish you or all of us all a lot of success, as I think has already been told twice today. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 3. POTUS OF THE DAY — THE LOVE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENTAL CONGREGATION. Since no nominations have been submitted before the beginning of this point, please qualified candidates to submit a proposal by 12.30 for the President of the National Assembly. I'm adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u16	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue with the interrupted 3rd item – Elections of the President of the National Assembly. Within the time limit for the submission of the nomination for election of the President of the National Assembly, the proposal was submitted, firstly, by a group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed Sam Bevko, who proposes Mr Borut Pahor as President of the National Assembly, and secondly, by a group of 28 Members and Members, with Janko Janji Möderndorfer, who proposes Ms Maša Kociper as President of the National Assembly. You also got this material on the bench. I ask, do you want the parliamentary groups to take note of the proposals? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on. We're moving on to the debate. Does the representative of the candidate Mr Samo Bevk wish to further explain his proposal? The explanation will be given by Majd Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u17	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Members and Members of the Social Democrats suggest that the National Assembly elect Borut Pahor as its President. He is certainly an extremely experienced politician. On 2 November 1963, Borut Pahor confirmed politics as his professional choice and mission and received the Prešernovo and Zoret Prize for his diploma as a political scientist. He started his career in 1990 as a delegate to the current Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In 1992, he was elected Member of the National Assembly and was a member of the Commission for European Affairs, the Commission for the Control of the Work of Security and Intelligence Services and the Committee for Defence, and he also led a Slovenian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. He was elected Member in 1996 and was Vice-President of Parliament until April 1997 and a member of the Committee on International Relations, the Constitutional Commission, the Defence Committee, the Head of the Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and a member of the Executive Committee of the International Parliamentary Organisation. In 2000, Borut Pahor was re-elected as Member of Parliament and became President of the National Assembly. In June 2004, he was elected MEP. There he was a member of the Group of Social Democrats, a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a Vice-President of the delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the EU of Croatia. The 2008 elections brought a relative victory to the Social Democrats, and the President of the Republic of Danilo Türk proposed Borut Pahor as the mandate holder for the composition of the new government. His experience in leading the National Assembly, the Government and the parties to the Social Democrats, as well as his knowledge of the parliamentary procedure and his international experience are undoubtedly proof of his suitability and ability to act as President of the highest legislative branch. In this respect, his experience in leading the Slovenian National Assembly prior to the entry into the European Union is particularly important in order to establish relations between the Government and the National Assembly and the European institutions, which is particularly valuable for the implementation of the National Assembly, which is one of the three separate branches of government. In addition to leadership, Bohrut Pahor is characterized by tolerance, prudence and openness to diversity, which is extremely important and necessary in the current situation. By his personal attitude and manner of management, he has shown in his work so far that he can enable conditions for the democratic, quality and successful functioning of the Slovenian Parliament. The candidates are confident that the most important strategic decisions of the country will be taken in the best possible way and with a view to public well-being, that is, the well-being of all people, as has been the case so far. Dear Members and Members! We therefore propose that, with the election of the President of the National Assembly, we begin to fulfil the mission given to us by citizens and citizens in the elections and, with the early election of the President and all the authorities of the National Assembly, we will allow the formation of the Government and our intention to join the coalition by running Borut Pahor for President of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats will only be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the delegation of Positive Slovenia want to speak? Mr. Janko Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u19	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia for the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Maša Kociper. Today, we are likely to devote some time to the introduction itself, and not least to the support of one candidate or another. In Positive Slovenia we are absolutely convinced that there are very many reasons why our candidate should be given the opportunity, this is Ambassador Maša Kociper. Allow me to begin with at least what you got on the bench and the public does not know, briefly present in at least one minute, and then further. Ambassador and candidate for President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Maša Kociper is a graduate lawyer with a legal exam by profession. From 1996 to 2000, she worked as a consultant at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, where she worked in particular in the preparation and organisation of meetings of the National Assembly. As Head of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Service at the District Court in Ljubljana, he coordinates the implementation of all mediation programmes at the District Court in Ljubljana, justice, family and economic mediation, and takes care of their promotion. Maša Kociper is also a mediator, lecturer and trainer of new mediators and regularly attends educational and professional meetings on the theme of peaceful dispute resolution. For five years she has been a saint of the Municipality of Ljubljana, where she runs the Statutory and Legal Commission and participates in the work of three other committees or commissions. The undeniable fact is that all the arguments on the part of Ambassador Masha Kociper are, but there are some others. In the elections that are behind us, citizens and citizens have made it very clear who is responsible in the country for forming a government and, last but not least, for the representative of the first one of the same in the National Assembly. The fact is, there's actually been some kind of break. For the first time in the National Assembly, we have received the highest possible number of representatives being a Member, which means that the time has also come for the President of the National Assembly to occupy the Parliament. What is most important to us all, we need some new way that the National Assembly has probably failed to overcome today, and this is actually a cultural dialogue within the National Assembly. From the beginning of today at the first point, we have seen that some wish to point out in every way that there is a need to respect the rules of procedure. Unfortunately, the one who talked about it most of all hit him right at the beginning. I therefore propose that, in every thought and concern, each Member and Member of the Commission, in its own right, in some way, also assume the responsibility that it has actually been elected with and support our candidate. Not only because Masha Kociper is a parent, and not only because she has professional skills, and not only because she is a young and capable mother of two children, not only because she can lead the highest decision-making body in the country, decision-making, but also because it is time for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much. We conclude by presenting the applicants. We are moving on to the parliamentary groups. The first to be reported was Positive Slovenia. Does anyone else want a text on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group? [[No, no, ……]] Then the Next is the Group of the Social Democrats. Member Bevk only, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats is aware that it is essential in Slovenia to form a government that will begin its work as soon as possible. In doing so, the constitution of Parliament and the election of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are crucial. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are working for the normal functioning of the country as soon as possible, with the proposal of a candidate for the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor. Our proposal for the President of the National Assembly also means an approach to the coalition, as we have made it clear several times in recent days that we want the social Democrats to be part of the coalition. Mr Borut Pahor, Ambassador and candidate for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is an indisputably highly experienced politician. He started his career in 1990 as a delegate to the current Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in 1992 as a delegate to the then Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in 1992 he was elected as a member of the National Assembly. During the period 1996 to 2000, he was already Vice-President of the National Assembly until April 1997. At the parliamentary elections in 2000, he was re-elected as a Member and also became President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Even before the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, in June 2004, Mr Borut Pahor was elected MEP in the European Parliament elections. On the basis of the results of the elections to the National Assembly in 2008, Mr Borut Pahor became President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which he led until September 2011, which is during the worst global economic crisis since World War II. His experience in leading Parliament, the Government and the parties to the Social Democrats, as well as his knowledge of the parliamentary procedure, as well as his international experience, is undoubtedly proof of his suitability and ability to act as President of the highest legislative branch. Mr Borut Pahor has, in addition to his leadership skills, a very developed social note, characterized by tolerance, prudence and openness to diversity, which is still essential in the current situation. With his personal attitude and way of leading, he has shown in the past that he can enable conditions for the democratic, quality and successful functioning of the Slovenian Parliament. The signatories and signatories are confident that the most important strategic decisions of the country will be made by the best of their ability and in good faith, as has always been the case. We will, of course, support Mr Borut Pahor as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette of Gregor Virant, Mr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, a sincere congratulations on your election! In the Civil Gazette, we are amazed and a little outraged at the chaos that arose from the first serious task of this Parliament, i.e. the election of the President or the President of the National Assembly. At this point, the country needs a government with full powers as soon as possible, and it needs wise leadership, not prestigious fighting. What is happening that the two potentially largest coalition parties cannot agree on this issue is an extremely bad sign and an extremely bad start. That's how we estimate it. We have decided to support Mr Borut Pahor from the two candidates available. That's how we decided when we considered the quality of both candidates. We know Mr. Pahor very well. He has already served as President of the National Assembly, and we believe he has done very well. He has proved to be a tolerant, professional president who has not made any distinctions between Members and Members, between the parliamentary groups. He acted neutrally, just as the President of the National Assembly should. He has a lot of experience in politics. Otherwise, we are critical of his work as Prime Minister of the Government, but we think it is two different functions, two different services, and that he will carry out his task as President of Parliament very well. Otherwise, we are not thrilled to have to make a decision about this at a time when we do not yet have a clear outline of the coalition, because it would be good if we had it today, because it would be significantly easier. This is now a partial decision on one of the functions. We remain firmly convinced that we should first agree on the content, the coalition agreement, the programme, the plan to pull this country out of the dead course, not to start with one of the functions. But then why did we decide to support one of the candidates? Because we want to be country-friendly and constructive. Because we want the National Assembly to be set up today and to start working because we have some very serious decisions ahead of us. Mrs Kociper, I don't doubt she'll make a great Member. I have no doubt about it, but we don't know her work yet. I wish her a successful job as Members of the National Assembly. And once again, we did not have much trouble choosing a candidate between these two candidates, who is already well-known and positively rated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u25	Dear Presidents and Members of Parliament! Even on my side, congratulations on your election! In the DeSUS Group, we wanted a better start to the National Assembly. I must say, we expected to mature, given that early elections were because people demanded changes. These changes, however, are not only aimed at a better life, but are also aimed at a policy playing an important role in these difficult economic and financial times. I must say that in the DeSUS Group we are sad that there has been an uncoordinated proposal for one of the most important functions in the country. It is necessary to know that the President of the National Assembly replaces the President of the Republic in his absence and I think it would be more prudent to agree on which person is most suitable to carry out this task – the task of integration and tolerance. Since both proposals do not have some broad support, because this is not a product of some broad consensus and agreement, we will leave to the party DeSUS the decision on who to support, members of the party DeSUS. Each individual will decide how he will vote. As we say, in DeSUS, we think that this is a very bad trip for our work. I'm afraid if we continue this way, people will probably want to change again. Maybe we'll actually have an early election, as it has already happened to us. Apparently, there is also no capacity or political will to find a broader consensus in the new Assembly. At this point, we don't even know who the coalition is, who the opposition is, but we're already bartering with different cities in the National Assembly. My belief is that the situation should be calmed down. Perhaps it would be good to interrupt the session and agree on who will lead the National Assembly, since the National Assembly, however I may be forgiven, is the temple of democracy. This is the most important democratic body in this country. And if we begin with such a journey, I fear that bad times lie ahead of us, bad promises that we will not do the task that citizens and citizens have entrusted us with, how to draw this loving country out of the troubles we are in, even because of a policy that has failed to reach a consensus that has failed to negotiate and that has failed to engage in dialogue. In the DeSUS Group, Members will vote in the way they think it is most appropriate in view of the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We have a new mandate ahead of us, a mandate that will be very demanding. This fact requires a great deal of responsibility from all Members, from all Members, and later from all members of the new coalition, the new government. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that until today it has not been possible to find agreement on the candidacy for the President of the National Assembly. Voting in this case, according to my assessment, is not appropriate and will take place for the first time in history. In the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that Slovenia needs the National Assembly from now on. And that's why we need the President of the National Assembly. We cannot and must not afford that today the National Assembly would not be constituted. That would be unrealistic and, above all, irresponsible. We must all assume our share of responsibility. We will certainly do so in the Slovenian People's Party. Slovenia and the National Assembly need in this mandate, following our assessment of a broad policy, a policy with experience, a policy that will meet the challenges of this national assembly in this mandate. That is why, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have decided to support Mr Borut Pahor as President of the National Assembly. With this act, the Slovenian People's Party does not prejudge anything. That's what I'm stressing. Especially not possible speculation about government entry. As far as this is concerned, the highest organ of the Slovenian People's Party, this is the Main Committee, has made its position very clear – that we are not interested in the government at the moment and that there is no possibility of joining the government. I'd like to say another sentence. If we want changes in this mandate, we must first begin to change ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u28	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u29	Dear Presidents, Dear Fellows and Fellows, welcome on behalf of the New Slovenia Group! Each community needs a leader who directs it and is also responsible for its work. The Slovenian National Assembly needs the President to make the work in him quickly and we will be able to make the necessary and important decisions. This is all the more important and urgent in these times of crisis. This is what citizens and citizens expect from us. We have two proposals for the President of the National Assembly, SD Borut Pahor candidate and positive Slovenia candidate Mrs Maša Kociper. The first candidate is well-known to us, and the second candidate is much less. In Novi Slovenija we placed both candidates on the scale – I don't mean literally. The decision was not easy because none of them were really the ones who would be happy to support it. Mr Borut Pahor, despite his efforts at the head of the government and his personal latitude, led us to early elections, as we no longer trusted the citizens of his government. Ms Maša Kociper is a member of Positive Slovenia, which has the most likely mandate holder. We are therefore asked whether it is good for Slovenia to have the same party as the President of the Government and the President of Parliament. The advantage of Mrs Kociper is that the first woman could be the head of the Slovenian Parliament, which would be a good sign of greater gender equality in the leading political functions. However, sex cannot in itself be the reason for the decision, but the ability, experience and credibility of the candidate. While Mr Pahor has already served as Parliamentary President and has a lot of experience for this city, Mrs Kociper has not yet had the opportunity to show what her leadership skills are, what her view of democracy is in Parliament and how it is in crisis and unexpected situations that are always taking place in politics. New Slovenia also participated in discussions on the composition of the coalition, although our position is clear that we do not belong to this government coalition. As a constructive opposition, we will take decisions that will not be directed against the government coalition, but for the good of Slovenia. That is why we have also decided today to give our vote for us to the most suitable candidate, although none of them particularly impresses us for the above reasons. We also have suitable candidates for presidents in New Slovenia. For all of us, a decision would be easier if the coalition were clear, but we're just guessing and predicting. We have ruled that in these troubled times, it will be easier to lead the work of Parliament, Mr Borut Pahor, because he already has experience in this place and because he comes from the second most likely coalition party, as has been stated today. We are all aware that the situation in Europe and Slovenia is very serious, so we need urgent and rapid action and decisions. We have a time of action ahead of us, so let the cock fights wait for more favorable times.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u30	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities, Dr László Göncz. I sincerely apologize to everyone for the wrong accent and everything else that happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, a nice greeting also on behalf of our Group of Members. [[address in Hungarian and Italian]] In the parliamentary group of national communities, we always try to act constructively for the benefit of the state and citizens, of course in our case, with particular attention to issues relating to the existence of the Hungarian and Italian national communities and to the area from which we come. For us to be constructive in our work, it is very important that the condition for the smooth and well-organised functioning of the National Assembly is met. In meeting this condition, it is an important decision to elect either the President or the President of the National Assembly. Today we are taking up this responsibility. Unfortunately, neither can we be satisfied with the situation in which we are facing this important decision, because the enabling activities, which primarily include the discussions on the emerging coalition, are still quite inconclusive, at least after our conduct, which also makes it very difficult to decide when the President or the President of the National Assembly is elected. Since we have two candidates or candidates and a candidate for president or president, we will weigh different aspects in our decision, including, among other things, who, as first among Members, can provide or allow for a fairly stable, transparent and successful functioning of the legislative branch of power. We too will make decisions based on our conscience or experience and predictions. We have some very important decisions ahead of us. Citizens and citizens expect a lot of work from us, but there is no doubt responsible work. Also in the field of the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities, we have important tasks to attend to. This area is all the more important in Slovenia because a model of protection has been established in the past, which, legally speaking, regulates the issue of the existence of national communities in a very good way in many areas, but unfortunately in practice, we record a lot of inconsistencies and therefore the model needs to be upgraded within existing constitutional frameworks. But I'll talk about it some other time. Whoever is elected President of the National Assembly, in our Group of Members, we wish him good and sincere cooperation and we congratulate him on his progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, Mr Roman Jakič of the Positive Slovenia Group, next of all, Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today is the day when all our citizens and citizens should be informed that all the political forces elected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are trying to save Slovenia and their position in it. Today is also the day when our citizens and citizens should feel the fresh wind that swept into this temple of Slovenian democracy. Today is the day when our citizens and citizens expect all of us to respect their will, as expressed by 4. This year's 12th. Dear colleagues, do we give them this feeling? After some of my colleagues' official appearances, I feel like they don't. We report that we are not trying to solve their problems, we want to convince them that nothing has happened, just that the faces and the seats have changed. Everything they said no has once again spread out on the political scene. Shopping, bluffing, personal egotistic fighting and so on. Colleague Maša Kociper presents hope with her knowledge and experience of mediation in the difficult stories of judicial proceedings, family cases and economic lawsuits. Maša Kociper represents a fresh wind because it is not burdened with any political mortgage from the past and is in fact the face or reflection of the will of people who have chosen new faces is a new positive energy. By electing a colleague, Kociper, we will become, I hope, the 11th Member States of the European Union, where parliaments run strong, educated and socially sensitive women. Among others, we will join the Netherlands, Austria, Great Britain, Germany. Mrs Novakov's answer is also, almost all of them are members of the ruling parties. However, my colleague and friend Borut Pahor, I invite him to reconsider his decision. Not only because of legal doubt that the same person can effectively manage the office of President of the National Assembly, but also because of the ongoing actions of the President of the Government, not only because of the warning of ignoring the Rules of Procedure and parliamentary practice, but also because of the constitutional criticism of the possibility of abuse of power or the so-called "abuse of power" but also because of the state power that President Turk said this morning must express political maturity and not get involved in political prestige. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, get ready, Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u35	I give up the debate, the president has already told us everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u37	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome and at the same time congratulations on your election! Yesterday, I said that Mr Pahor had certain personal and character elements that would be very useful in the presidency of the National Assembly. And I got a call from one of the voters who said how you can support or support Mr. Pahor, because we have an early election because of him. I told him, today we don't like Mr. Pahor for the President of the Government, but we love him for the President of the National Assembly. If we always insist on our trenches, then our Slovenian policy will never and never move forward. The fact is that Mr Pahor did not do his best as Prime Minister, if he did, we probably wouldn't be sitting here today. However, the fact is that there are many positive assessments of his work as President of the National Assembly from 2000 to 2004. We have repeatedly stressed in our performances that we want to act constructively. Of course, this constructiveness has to be expressed in some way. We do not want to oppose certain proposals only on the basis of principle. That's not what we want to start. The fact is that if you read the Rules of Procedure and the 12th paragraph, we need a President of Parliament to conclude today's constitutional session. And if we do not elect the President of Parliament, then we will also give a strange message to the public because our Parliament will not be fully constituted. And that is why my vote will go to Mr Pahor, but at the same time I am very clear to all voters that this is not a voice and support for the SD nor is it a voice or purpose for any pre-election or enabling coalition. All I would say is that whoever is elected, I wish him a successful job, and I hope that this Parliament will lead successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež, the Group of the Social Democrats, and then Mr Richard Braniselj is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. First of all, congratulations to all Members and Members, and congratulations to the relative winner of the elections! The responsibility for good co-operation in this House lies with each and every one of us, each of us will have to make a long or short effort to be able to work together and take solutions for the common good many times in this mandate. Slovenia needs a government, it needs it as soon as possible, it needs a government with full powers, because the difficult decisions that the National Assembly and the Government must make are not waiting for. The conditions we face do not wait. That is why it is so important that we are all aware of our responsibilities in the first task, this is the establishment of the National Assembly. I understand Borut Pahor's candidacy as President of the National Assembly as the first step towards the formation of a government majority in this Parliament. Personally to such or other coalition connections, I have no exaggeration. I think that my party has received a certain message in these elections and that it must also act in accordance with this message. This does not mean, however, that we too do not have our share of responsibility in fulfilling our assignment today. And after I, like you, have lived for two weeks in the impression that Borut Pahor is offering this position, and was also among those who convinced him to accept this responsible task, of course let us experience a surprise. The relative victory in elections is exactly that – relative. Steps towards the formation of a majority will in the National Assembly are difficult and require a lot of mutual respect, including indulgence and good will, to form as consensual political decisions as possible. I believe in this democracy, and I would not want to do an exaggerated drama by facing some sort of complication today. I believe that if the beginning is a bit awkward, perhaps the end can be so much better. The principle of the division of power must be taken seriously in this country. I believe that the National Assembly under the leadership of Borut Pahor can be an autonomous branch of power, what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also sends to the National Assembly. Cooperation between us needs to start again, the election game is over. It is likely that all of us, for sure, shared in the election match also statements that today seem inappropriate. Today, it must be concluded that this National Assembly will be constituted and this new chapter will begin. This is a clear expectation of electives and voters, and I propose that we take this task in a responsible manner. I am pleased with the many new faces in this House, I am pleased with the many young faces in Parliament, and I admit that, despite the complications, it gives me hope that some new culture of cooperation may be launched in this mandate in the State Assembly, which will be able to overcome the stable political divisions between us. Slovenia needs this. For our people, that would be extremely welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel has given up the debate. Mr. Janko Weber is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u41	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I think it is very important today that the National Assembly is being set up and given its President, and I must also make it very clear that I am surprised at the proposal that Positive Slovenia propose its candidate for the President of the National Assembly, because that also means the division of votes. It may be that we do not today collect the 46 votes that need to be collected for us to elect the President or the President of the National Assembly. I am particularly surprised that this proposal has come about because it does not seem right to me that one party is thinking about the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly. However, this is an extremely important relationship between the Government as the executive branch of power and the National Assembly as the legislative branch of power. And if the government is already made up as a coalition government, the work in the National Assembly is much broader, especially because opposition is also taking place in the National Assembly. And for the President of the National Assembly, it is extremely important that he has a very sharp attitude towards where he can somehow tolerate the work of the coalition and to where the opposition is also. And given the fact that the opposition is in the minority, it is often expected and is a very responsible task of the President of the National Assembly to try to enable the opposition to act successfully or at least somehow properly in the National Assembly. I think that the President of the Social Democrats has proved in his work so far, both in leading the government and in leading the National Assembly, that he is willing to listen to the very broad interests and then to draw the most effective solutions that we need. I also assess that the Government has acted extremely well in these years, as Slovenia is now in good shape compared to other countries of the European Union. Last but not least, we have taken very effective measures to reduce differences between people in Slovenia. The fact is, within the European Union, the smallest differences between us are precisely because the Government has heard about the weakest. And it is in these days that the minimum wage has also risen, significantly raised, for reasons of listening and enabling us to function properly and to provide our needs also to those with lower incomes. We must not ignore the fact that today we can talk relatively peacefully in Parliament also because we have arranged relations with neighbouring Croatia. It is up to us to really agree very well on how we will work in the future. And these are the advantages of experience in working in a very difficult situation, and this situation has been greatly tasted by the candidate for the President of the National Assembly, Comrade Borut Pahor. These are the experiences that must certainly be exploited, they must be cashed out, because all of this can help to make us much more effective than we could have been yesterday. It is therefore very important that the National Assembly is set up as soon as possible to get a government, because we also have an agreement on whether or not to deal with the intervention law. And if we don't elect the President of the National Assembly today, I think we're questioning the adoption of an intervention law because it's impossible to deal with this law before the National Assembly is established. This means that whoever is to form a coalition and in any form whatsoever will have a significantly worse starting point for work in the following year than if the National Assembly is to be established today and intervention law is to be passed. So, as soon as possible, we need a successful work in the composition of the National Assembly and the government. Last but not least, when we proposed to our colleague Borut Pahor as President of the National Assembly, we have made it very clear that we want to participate in the coalition and that we, as our second most powerful party in the coalition, belong to the President of the National Assembly; parliamentary practice has always been that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and distinguished fellow Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate you sincerely on the trust you received in the early state elections on 4 December this year. When we enter the third decade to all of us dear Slovenia, we find that Slovenia is on the ground. We have a great responsibility to raise Slovenia to return the hope of Slovenia, and the beginning is here, right here in this house. And it is to this house, the National Assembly, that we must restore the reputation — only we, the 90 of us gathered here can do so. Citizens and citizens have high expectations. My thoughts are especially in those whose voice is never actually heard because they are in such severe straits. At the time of the election campaign in New Slovenia we argued that Slovenia needed swift but deliberate decisions, measures and that these measures should be such as to give hope that is fair, just and then effective – first honesty, justice and then efficiency. The first condition is that we choose the first or the first among us today. When we enter into Christmas time – and before us is also a holiday of Slovenian autonomy and unity, let us not forget this – it gives us a good atmosphere for our good decisions based on reason and emotions. Ms Maša Kociper unquestionably represents the hope for Slovenia, just as we all do. My thought, without offense, is that the Positive Slovenia Group will probably have a new mandate, and so is the relative winner of this year's early elections. Some colleagues have already mentioned, and I would like to point this out myself, there is a danger that, for example, the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly will agree quickly because they are party colleagues for some urgent legislative procedure, although there would be no conditions for an urgent legislative procedure. There's a danger. Mr Borut Pahor, who was interviewed by the New Slovenia Group because he wanted to – we told him in 2008 as well as the Slovenian public that we do not see him in the role of administering the executive branch, unfortunately, we were not wrong, but we must say objectively that the Slovenian Parliament was well-chaired in the mandate 2000-2004. As we began today with the honour of the great European Vaclav Havel, I am thinking of the year 2003, when Mr Borut Pahor presided over the National Assembly of Ion when the great Democrat, the great Slovenian Jože Pučnik, died, the then coalition was just groaning that it should not be a pitiful meeting. The President-in-Office of that time, Mr Borut Pahor, did so in spite of everything. Here is a tribute for this, very much also for the fact that he immediately decided that Slovenia should be treated with dignity and dignity by Dr. Andrej Bajuk, also the great Slovenian. Mr Borut Pahor, my vote will be given to you by expecting, above all, small parliamentary groups such as Nova Slovenija to receive just the same attention as the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc, the Group of Social Democrats, is next to prepare Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u45	Dear President, Honourable Fellow Members, fellow Members! About Borut Pahor, a graduate political scientist, an international relations expert, who started his career in this building in 1990, much has been said, including critics and praises. On his professional political path, he performed a number of important functions. This time it is also proposed by the Social Democrats to perform the second most important function in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the President of the National Assembly. He served as President of the National Assembly from 2000 to 2004, until his election to the European Parliament. Most of the Members and Members of the then call, as well as other people accompanying his work, are convinced that the best president of this high house, as colleague Borut Pahor calls the National Assembly. In fact, I could say that the National Assembly as an institution then had the greatest reputation in the eyes of citizens and citizens. It is clear to everyone that Slovenia needs the government immediately. Social Democrats want to participate in the new government. And the first step towards forming a government is, of course, the constitution of the National Assembly, and this is the election of the President of the National Assembly. Both Borut Pahor and I are from Primorska. We've known each other for a very long time, so I can say that Borut Pahor is an excellent candidate for the President of the National Assembly. I will support him because he is patient, he is prudent, he is patient, and because his consensual policy is not foreign, which is particularly important here in the National Assembly. In Parliament, where there are representatives of various political beliefs, there is often a need to find appropriate solutions. Therefore, the characteristics mentioned above are of some importance. I am confident that the candidate for the Social Democrats for the President of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor, will successfully lead this assembly. And thank you all who will dedicate your voice to Borut Pahor and, of course, make your coming holidays better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My sincere congratulations especially to those who have become Members and Members of the National Assembly for the first time today, and in a way, I would like to say what I apologize to all those who may be a little surprised or disappointed at some of the discussions that have taken place today. Indeed, at times some have already felt, even from some viewpoints it was possible to feel that they did not picture the National Assembly in such a form. Today is indeed an important day for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who finally want political peace in the Republic of Slovenia and adopt all those laws that we have unfortunately failed to adopt in the previous Congress of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I believe that today is also the time to tell the public why I decided in early October after my assessment of the only possible alternative and change. Because it didn't go on like that anymore. Some people may not have trusted Janša’s government before, but they chose Pahor’s government. Unfortunately, there was probably no luck with the coalition, which is why there were different thoughts in the Republic of Slovenia. As the first professional politician at the time, I also highlighted myself. I have never been a member of any political party, even as mayor, with 74% of the votes I received confidence as a non-party candidate by collecting signatures on the administrative unit, and then, as a member of the ruling coalition group, I decided that there must be a change. I wrote, on Sunday I wrote one letter, a kind letter of thanks for the cooperation, but also with my clear decision not to go on like this. I believe that Mr Borut Pahor, as Prime Minister of the Government, was very busy, he did not answer me, he did not say anything. But I'm sure it had to be early elections. Why? Because probably Mr. Borut Pahor didn't have any luck with the coalition at the time, but he probably should have. [[Hit me with your hand on the phone.]] I'm sure he's determined because I had the opportunity to meet him as a determined person. Sadly, though, she did not show it to those who needed to feel it. I'm sorry about that! However, I must say something. Today, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be extremely disappointed if we supported Mr Borut Pahor as President of the National Assembly. He's a wonderful person, he's a top politician, he's an experienced politician, he's cute, everything, but, why is he going? The Republic of Slovenia opted for early elections with a clear message. And we, who are representatives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I didn't decide on the early elections at the time, I really didn't. However, since most of the representatives of the National Assembly at the time decided to do so, today it would mean — the first person in the country is the President of the Republic of Slovenia — that today Mr Borut Pahor would still be promoted to another person in the country, the President of the National Assembly. The third person is the President of the Government, the fourth person is the President of the Council of State and the fifth person in the country is the President of the Constitutional Court. And it's just this message because I'd be resented by the electorate and the electorate, and I probably have a lot of people in this National Assembly. Perhaps we would have resented – I think the party of Comrade Pahor had 10% – probably 90% of voters would have resented Members and Members if they had made 'yes' for another higher class, but I would not have to be offended by my colleague because I am sure that he will achieve much more in world and European politics. Thank you. Therefore, I will support my colleague, Masha Kociper, and I am confident that she will do her job conscientiously and well and that we will support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia's Emissary Group, is then mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congratulations also on my behalf to all Members of Parliament and Members! In New Slovenia, we have already said many times and also stressed that today this has also been said repeatedly to be a constructive opposition, and that we will be ready to support all things and good programmes for the benefit of the Slovenes and Slovenes, says citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Things need to be put in the right place. To get things moving in the right direction and, of course, to make decisions as quickly as possible, it is sometimes necessary to make some more difficult decisions. Our constituents expect that from us. Since we no longer have much time and work and participation in the welfare of citizens and the country of Slovenia must begin as soon as possible, my vote for you too, Mr Borut Pahor, and thus the expectation that New Slovenia will be equivalent to that of the other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Bratušek, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, and then Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the President! I would also like to begin by congratulating all of you who have been elected in the hope that our leadership in this mandate of the National Assembly will be one thing, and that is what is good for our country of Slovenia. As the President of the Republic, Mr Danilo Türk, said in his speech today, the time has certainly come for change with these early elections. Voters and voters have shown what they want. They want change, they want a new wind. Mrs. Masha Kociper is just that, a new face. A graduate lawyer, young and still experienced in her professional field. The argument that it is politically inexperienced is that, at a time when politics does not enjoy any overconfidence, the greater the argument in favour of and not against Mrs Maša Kociper. Such new faces have given us about two thirds of the call of the National Assembly, and this gives me the hope that we will be able to do differently than was done today and to this day. And that's exactly what people want. This was shown on December 4th. For the first time in history, there are about a third of women in the National Assembly, and we also have the first opportunity to win the President of the National Assembly. Ms Maša Kociper, with her mediation experience, has already shown that she can and can accept compromises and lead to others. I believe that, as President of the National Assembly, she will work properly and will be able to seek compromises within the legal framework that we have been given. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an opportunity and an opportunity to show that we are ready to change, that we are willing to work differently, that we are ready for the first time to give a woman the opportunity to show that a woman can and can lead the National Assembly well. Because I believe that it is necessary to do things differently than has been done in the National Assembly so far, because I believe that changes are necessary, and especially because people have shown that they want to do so, I will be very happy and proud to support Mrs Masha Kociper as President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han. Then Mr Matjaž Zanoškar should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u53	Thank you very much. First of all, on my part, congratulations to all Members of Parliament and Members. I want this bad start to be a better start, and I hope it does. First of all, let me say that the Social Democrats are a party that is united, that has its backbone, its own me and we have earned in the early elections as many votes as voters and voters have given us. And for so many voices we also bear responsibility and will carry it on. I would also like to call, as my colleague Roman has called on us not to invite each other to do anything, but to step forward and start solving the problems that have accumulated not in the last three years, but in the last 20 years in our country. By pointing your finger at each other, who's most agreed, I don't think it's going to be okay and it's not going to get us out of this crisis. The situation in the country is such, in particular economic and social, that they call for swift and effective management of the country. It is said that it is necessary to put together a government quickly, put together a ministerial cabinet and start working, as Mr Jankovic would say. However, we need a little more than 28 members of Positive Slovenia, we need a little wider coalition. And if you all imagine that only this middle government in this country can, then the situation will continue as it is. Today, the Social Democrats have made clear our position that we want to be responsible for the governance of the country, that we want to join the coalition, but that must also be met with some conditions. Today, when we talk about Mrs Massa and Mr Borut, I believe that it would be better if this moment were not in this Chamber because they do not deserve it, not one another. Both are good candidates, or all 90 candidates, or Members and Members could sit on that chair up there, but policy is possible, some arrangements need to be made, coalitions need to be drawn up as soon as possible and work needs to be started. I will absolutely support the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, because I wish to say clearly and loudly that the Social Democrats want to participate in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u54	Thank you very much. But until this moment, until we elect the President and the President, only the oldest can sit here. We apologize to you. Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, honest congratulations, especially to you who are experiencing a debut today in this temple of democracy! Today we have confirmed the mandate and from now on we are most responsible for the leadership and management of this country in such a way that citizens and citizens will be pleased that this House of Democracy and this High Council will not experience as many criticisms as it has experienced in the past mandate. Positive Slovenia has a positive philosophy and with this philosophy I am not allowed to say anything bad about the candidate, Mr Borut Pahor. I appreciate and respect him, even for those things and those moves that were good for citizens and citizens, for us all. And here, when you're running for office, Mr Borut Pahor, you wouldn't start procedural questions about whether the candidacy is well- tabled, you wouldn't even touch on the opinion of eminent lawyers who have doubts about this candidacy, but I would say very simply that: who is the master in his past, he remembers, and who is the master in his future is changing. We recall the times of this mandate, or even earlier, when Mr Pahor experienced great friction and opposition from the then well-thought-out opposition. This friction between the opposition and the government was also transferred to this Chamber of Democracy, and it was often about debates and debates, which were totally irrational, which citizens and citizens were disgusted with when they needed to discuss their key and vital issues, that we wasted time on unnecessary things. And if we remember, then I'm afraid that as President of the National Assembly, too, would cause some friction, opposition and conflict. But if we are the masters of our future, then we are changing. And voters and voters have made it clear that they want to change. Despite the fact that Positive Slovenia has received the highest percentage, which, of course, is aware of and with full responsibility, follows this task of governance, then we can say that voters and voters have shown that they want changes, changes in the field of human resources as well. And the change would be if we discussed it today and voted for Masha Kociper as President of the National Assembly. I am absolutely convinced that the candidate is good that she has already demonstrated her success with her work so far and that she does not carry any political past, such as it is otherwise. Of course it is unknown, but Mrs Masha Kociper is our belief that your hope should be and let us try and go with the President of Parliament, which has not yet happened in our country's existence. So, I would very much like to see Mrs Masha Kociper sitting here today in this place where Mr Happy Meh sits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk is next and Mrs Melita Župevc is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to say that colleague Borut Pahor decided, of course, to run for President of the National Assembly, but to continue to object to the leadership of the Social Democrats and the entire Group of Social Democrats. In doing so, I would also like to express our political position that it does not matter in parliamentary democracy, that all the highest functions in the country are controlled by the largest parliamentary party. Parliamentary tradition was also, although with some exceptions, that the President of the Government from the largest parliamentary party came, while the leadership of the National Assembly was taken over by the second largest coalition partner. And it would be good for this to happen in this mandate of the National Assembly, especially because we have a very difficult task ahead of us to pull Slovenia forward in order to get rid of this severe economic and financial crisis. As it is said, Borut Pahor's candidacy for President of the National Assembly is fully supported by the leadership of the Social Democrats and the 10 Members of the Social Democrats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not a personal whim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Zupevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. As Mr Borut Pahor said, if I am not mistaken, happiness is on the part of the brave. And Masha Kociper showed courage today. She is thirty-nine years old and is running for President of the National Assembly, just as Borut Pahor was old when he ran and was elected President of the National Assembly. She's the first woman to run for this important place. And I want the National Assembly to move from words to actions. When I entered politics alone, I heard a lot about how women should be given a place in politics and how they should be given a young place in politics. And if we're serious about this, we can't vote any more today than what we're representing all the time. As the President of the Republic said today, today is a really big day. The day when citizens and citizens expect a lot from us. They expect the National Assembly to receive a president or president today. They're not interested in prestige, they're not interested in background, they're interested in actions. They want us to get a full-fledged National Assembly – a National Assembly that will make concrete decisions if you want, which will immediately adopt the intervention law, which in the previous reference, unfortunately, we have not been able to confirm. They want a National Assembly that will not waste time needlessly overreacting, who is better, who has served more and higher functions in the past. And, yes, it's true, we've focused on the functions. Those of you who have mentioned this today – we need to focus on the presidency of the National Assembly if we want to be able to function fully. However, I find it inappropriate, insulting to the electorate and electorate who went to the elections a few days ago, to express clearly their will that some in Parliament today are talking about early elections. That's insulting. Voters and voters went to the polls, said their opinions. They said they wanted a government, a parliament, an authority that would be able to solve problems in this country today, not tomorrow, this year and not another year. I think we must all be aware of this responsibility in Parliament. Those who received 4% are not only responsible for 4% of voters. Those who received 10% are not only responsible for 10%. We are all responsible equally – all of us sitting in Parliament and all of us sitting in the government. When I came to this hall today and listened to the opening talks, I wondered if we might not have had an election in the middle — some still have the same paradigms, the same sentences. There were elections in between and, indeed, there were changes. I am glad that there are still the same in Parliament - and Joseph Jerovšek is still the same, this amusing me, in the midst of changes - 57 new faces have happened, which I am pleased, but I think it is right not to forget, for the first time, why we went to the early elections, for the second time, not to forget that we have a serious economic crisis ahead of us, not to forget what is going on around us, not to forget where Europe is going, and not to forget what reforms are waiting for us. Today's long and wide talk about why we have two candidates, why we have a candidate and a candidate, why we don't have one alone – this morning it showed that we will have even three – is a waste of time, I think. Each of us will decide on his own conscience. It is right for the National Assembly to make a decision today, as has already been said, in order to be fully operational. And for the end, there's only one more thing. When some say that it is inappropriate for the largest party to have a President of the Government and a President of the National Assembly, I apologize, in the past there have been at least two parties who had both the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly. And the next time I listen to my colleagues and colleagues talk about women in politics, I'll tell you why you didn't vote for a woman for the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The list of the panellists shall be completed. I'm asking the proposer of both candidates, do you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded proposals for a member and a member of the committee leading the vote. These are: mag. Melita Župevc – Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah – Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Richard Braniselj – National List of Gregor Virant, Mrs Iva Dimic – Nova Slovenija. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I propose that the Commission in such a composition and with the new Chairman-in-Office also be responsible for the election of Vice-Presidents under item 4 of the agenda. Who is opposed to this proposal? No, no, no. If not, we're moving on to a committee decision. We're voting. 84 Members and Members attended, 84 votes in favour [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We've set up a committee in the Magi Corps. Melita Župevc, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Richard Braniselj, Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Srečko Meh. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table, giving his name and surname. The vote will list the candidate and candidate for the President of the National Assembly in alphabetical order. It shall vote for one candidate by surrounding a serial number in front of the name of the candidate for which it is voted. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in conjunction with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate or candidate for which the majority of all Members shall vote shall be elected, that shall be sixty-six or more. We will vote here in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed votes to the ballot box, which is in the Chamber or will be at the table next to the voting booths. We will begin by holding a secret vote, please, Members of Parliament and Members, who will assist me in voting to report to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2 p.m. and will be closed at 14.15 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members and Members to reconvene in room 217. I'm breaking point three with that. We'll pick her up at 2:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly and move on to the interrupted 3rd item – the election of the President of the National Assembly. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of the President or the President of the National Assembly. First vote, we had two candidates. The vote was here, in the Houses of the National Assembly, today. 90 ballots were distributed, 90 ballots were delivered. There were 31 invalids, 59 valid. Ms Maša Kociper received 28 votes and Mr Borut Pahor 31 votes. [[Masha Kociper 28.]] [[Borut Pahor 31.]] Since none of the candidates received a sufficient number of votes and therefore did not receive the required majority, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 195 of the Rules of Procedure, we will proceed to a new vote. We will therefore vote on both candidates. In the second vote, the candidates will be listed in the order in which they are voting, according to the number of votes obtained in the first vote. Order of candidates for the second round: under number one is Borut Pahor, under number two Masha Kociper. We're moving to the vote. It shall vote for one candidate by surrounding a serial number in front of the candidate’s name on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution, the candidate for which the majority of all Members will vote will be elected is 46 or more. We will vote for the first time in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will put the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote shall begin at 2.40 p.m. and shall last until 14.55 p.m. After the vote, I also request Members and Members of Parliament to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue at 15.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of the President or the President of the National Assembly, of the second vote. The vote was here, 88 votes were distributed, 88 votes were cast, 29 were invalid, 59 were valid. In the second vote, the proposed candidates received the following number of votes: Borut Pahor 31 and Maša Kociper 28 votes. [[Borut Pahor 31.]] [[Masha Kociper 28.]] On the basis of the outcome of the second round of voting, none of the candidates received the required majority and was therefore not elected President of the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the election of the President of the National Assembly shall be resumed on the basis of a new proposal for candidates. On this basis, I shall rest until 5 p.m. Thank you very much. We'll resume the session at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u63	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are discussing point 3 – Elections of the President of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, in order to elect the President of the National Assembly, the group of 28 Members and Members, with the first-signed Janko Janji Möderndorfer, is proposing the President of the National Assembly, Maša Kociper. We also received a signed group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Virant, who proposes Dr. Virant as President of the National Assembly [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] So he's just been filed. [[...]] Now, I ask you, honourable Members, do qualified candidates still want to or do you want to submit a proposal for a candidacy? There's no debate, just a proposal for a candidacy. Mr Masha Kociper and Dr Virant have already been nominated. Does anyone else want it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I suggest a committee by 17.10. To reproduce the material and get the material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the interrupted 3rd item – Elections of the President of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, for the election of the President of the National Assembly, a group of 28 Members and Members with the first-signed Janko Janije Möderndorfer has submitted a candidacy for the President of the National Assembly, Maša Kociper. In addition, the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Richard Branisle, submitted a nomination for the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the candidate, Dr Gregor Virant. I ask, does the representative of the candidates want to explain the proposal for a candidacy? Yeah. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u65	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we have heard quite a few things about how we have not matured, that we cannot agree that we are fighting of such and different kinds. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we remain with Maša Kociper as President of the National Assembly. We thank Mr Borut Pahor and the entire SD Group and express a great deal of understanding for the withdrawal of Borut Pahor's candidacy. The SD Party thus demonstrated its state-of-the-art effectiveness and allowed the National Assembly to be constituted and to obtain its President. Going over our own party interests is not easy, so it means a lot to all of us. Why do we think Masha Kociper is an excellent candidate for President of the National Assembly? Today we have heard many times that it is time for change. Here. We're for change, too. For the first time in history, the National Assembly will be run by women. This is a successful woman, a lawyer, one of the biggest mediation experts, has experience, is unburdened with past events, respects the culture of dialogue and can listen to other thinkers. That is why I ask and call on all Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly to vote for candidate Masha Kociper. With this, we will all show that we really care about our Slovenia. In Positive Slovenia, we have never played with a fig in our pocket, and unfortunately others are. I ask you: How will you look us in the eyes of those who lied to us, how will you look into the eyes of your constituents and all those who expect your cooperation and stateliness? Our conscience is clear when you vote, ask yourself what yours is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u66	Thank you very much. On behalf of 24 Members and Members, the explanation for Dr Gregor Virant's candidacy will be given or explained by Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u67	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! My sincere congratulations on my election as well. Today's proposal, which comes from our side, has been supported by a palette of Members from various parliamentary groups to elect the urgently needed President of the National Assembly at today's meeting, thus allowing for further work by this High Council. Dr. Gregor Virant's candidate is in 1969. In 1993, he graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, graduated in 1995 and graduated in 1999. He is a university professor in the field of public administration and public law. For several years he was a consultant to the Constitutional Court, a member of the National Election Commission, the Secretary of State for Public Administration from 2000 to 2004. Minister of Public Administration 2004-2008. During his ministerial term, Dr Virant was able to conclude a collective agreement with all public sector unions. Many administrative barriers have been removed and the Slovenian eGovernment is second in efficiency in Europe. Also, the Imam project, which was set up and led by Dr. Virant, won the United Nations Prize. Why am I saying this? To try to illuminate Dr. Virant's connective power. Dr. Virant is a person who connects, who doesn't separate. I think he's acceptable, qualified, qualified and competent to run the National Assembly. I am confident that we will be proud of Dr Virant as President of the National Assembly, so I propose that we support Dr Virant as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Virant is willing to lead the National Assembly to a different decision, which will be dictated by a possible coalition. So once again, I suggest we support Dr. Virant. A number of dramatic words have been said just now, and especially in the previous period. A whole series of these dramatic words are superfluous. Our primary task is: to elect today the President of the National Assembly, who will act as a liaison, which will be acceptable for a large majority, if not for all colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u68	Thank you very much. If you'd like to speak to representatives of the parliamentary groups, then please sign in. The first is Mr Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been responsible in both votes for one of the candidates, Mr Borut Pahor, as President of the National Assembly. In my performance, I also said that we cannot afford it and that there is no way that we are not establishing the National Assembly today. This would be irresponsible for us, for the Slovenian people and for the Slovenian state. We regret that two potential coalition partners were unable to agree on one candidate. That is why the remaining Members and Members have found a solution for the President of the National Assembly. We will support Mr Gregor Virant as President of the National Assembly. Whether this will be a temporary or a final solution will, of course, bring time. Slovenia currently needs the National Assembly to start functioning. We need decisions, measures and so on. There's no time to delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u70	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected choir! In the first attempt to vote for the President of the National Assembly, the Group of Social Democrats proposed that Borut Pahor in the belief that he has all the necessary qualities and experience to lead the National Assembly in extremely difficult domestic and international circumstances. Borut Pahor did not receive the necessary majority, but he was supported by three times as many Members as our parliamentary group is large. On behalf of our Group of Members, I express great gratitude to all those who have decided to do so. At the introduction of this meeting, we have said that Slovenia needs a government immediately. This cannot happen without the establishment of a Parliament. This is not without the election of the President or the President. We have not withdrawn the nominations of Comrade Borut Pahor, but we have not re- tabled them. We didn't even know or were not familiar with Dr. Gregor Virant's candidacy. That is why the Group of Social Democrats in a situation where it had to choose between bad decisions has decided on one that may be at least bad. And this is to support her candidate, Ms Maša Kociper, on the proposal of the largest party responsible for the composition of the government. As we said, in discussions with the leader of the Party of Positive Slovenia, which proposed candidate Maša Kociper, and we have accepted this candidacy, this is a decision with great risk, but therefore the burden of responsibility on the relative winner of these elections. It is true that the Slovenian parliamentary tradition is aware of such an experience when the lead party had both key positions in the country, but it is also true that, in particular in the current circumstances, taking on the role of the President of Parliament without the necessary domestic and international experience is a risky journey to continue to lead this Parliament and the country. But it is even worse that the establishment of a new government within a reasonable time frame would not occur at all. This is the contribution of the Social Democrats to the necessary stability of our country in these troubled times. The Group of Social Democrats will support Ms Masha Kociper's candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u72	Thank you. Ms Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenije, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u73	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! New Slovenia has previously supported Mr Borut Pahor as President of Parliament in good faith, that he will receive a sufficient number of votes and that he will be the best President of Parliament in the given circumstances, although we have said that this is not the optimal solution, that we do not praise him to a certain extent. Since we considered that the two biggest parties should have agreed beforehand and did not do so, we estimate that there would not be a decisive solution in the third round, so we have received a third candidate's offer at the table. In Novi Slovenija we estimate that this candidate is suitable for the President of Parliament, that he has sufficient competence, that he has already held responsible functions. We expect that he will receive sufficient support and that this will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to operate. But I would also like to say something to a possible future mandate-holder. Democracy needs to be talked about, but it has to be counted. And this needs to be done in advance. And they're big when they can be humiliated when they have to. And the wise are wise when they also respect the wisdom of others. And maybe that's just a little hint for a future deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The debate of the parliamentary groups is closed. You will receive the text of Members and Members of Parliament. Anyone who wants a word, please report. Mr. Matthew Tonin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u75	As we can see, we have witnessed some kind of blockade today. We repeated the vote twice, twice the same result. If we want things to move forward, then alternative solutions should also be sought. In Novi Slovenije we have somehow found an opportunity in Gregor Virant to receive the President of the National Assembly today. As we have all noted today, and I repeat again today, in order to establish the National Assembly, we simply need the President of the National Assembly. It can only be a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u77	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We seem to need a new president, but we don't need a new president, if I understand. Look, even this work is of course a great farce. Those who have some political miles are well aware of what just happened. There's been an experiment, and I must admit you're on your way, playing elections and the results of the elections. A new coalition is being formed in the National Assembly, the coalition that did not receive a mandate in the elections. And that's what I'm worried about. If there have been some misunderstandings between us and the SD party, these are normal misunderstandings that take place in Parliamentism and in the process of coalition negotiations. In my view, it is also perfectly normal for potential coalition parties to act constructively during the phase of coalition negotiations. What happened now? And now they're flying out of the nest of birds, which we thought were already flying out of this nest, and they're obviously coming back into it. That's what I'm afraid of, and that's what I think most of our electorates and voters are afraid of. Look, we are now in our seats — let's get up from this chair and take on the role of someone who went to the polls at the beginning of December 4th. What's he gonna think? 57 new Members and Members are in the National Assembly. Elections have shown that people want change. No, obviously, people won't get any changes. The old coalitions will negotiate and mine a normal parliamentary procedure that is going through all normal parliaments in democratic countries. In Europe, the compositions of the coalition, as we now make up, are perfectly normal. Has this country ever formed a coalition in as short a time as you now expect from us? Never! Never! A month and a half was a record! Now it was a record effort to do so as soon as possible. If you think this is a game, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The findings are clear. Today, when I really came to the National Assembly and said that I had heard the same sentences, the same paradigm, is the conclusion now: Nothing has changed. We voted twice today in the House of Democracy on proposals for the President or President of the National Assembly. And twice, as the chairman has read, at least a third of the ballots have been invalid. Twice, a third of the members in the National Assembly did not say who they wanted to be president or president of the National Assembly; whether they did not surround anyone or expressed their views in any other way. Thirdly, when the candidate is obviously right, I believe that these Members and these Members will be able to express their will clearly. True, many faces have changed in this hall, but some methods have apparently remained the same, and that saddens me. You're talking about cooperation, you're talking about working for the country. Let's ask ourselves where we are today. Why hasn't anyone on the left side of the bench come forward today, except for NSI? Why didn't any of the SDS Members hear who he wanted at the leadership of the National Assembly? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] President, may I ask you to calm your colleagues so that I can finish my thought. [[...]] The one who runs the National Assembly is the first of the same. He is President of all Members and Members of the National Assembly. And I have not heard any of those who have now signed under any new candidacy to express their position on what kind of man they want at the head of the National Assembly. Whether it be a man, a woman, I don't care in principle, but what abilities he has, what he's expected of him. Why didn't we hear that? I think this proposal is a legitimate proposal. I would like to see Mr Virant come earlier the day he wishes to be President of the National Assembly. I think it'd be easier. About a day ago, I recorded your statement that you do not have such a desire, and now I see that your wish has changed. I believe you'll get a large number of votes. But as I say, I think it's a crucial question: do we see politics as a game, as a struggle for prestige, or do we perceive politics? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, will you last two minutes and eight seconds to finish my thought?Oh, my God! [[...]] Thank you very much. So, whether politics as a game, as a struggle for prestige or politics as a responsible work for the benefit of citizens. And it is true; citizens and citizens expect us to receive a President or President of the National Assembly today. Apparently, some have chosen the game. I hope those of you who have been betting on this game know what it means to bets, and I hope you know what the outcome will be. But I wish after this game of yours, we wouldn't have a headache. I'll also put my voice on third for Masha Kociper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u81	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me first thank my colleague Pahor for his move to see that this blockade must be overcome and the President elected — or in this case, the President — elected. I thank him because it is a civil or national gesture he has made. This is where all the exclamation points or exclamation points fall away when you say that we could not agree – SD and Positive Slovenia have agreed. The SD withdrew from the candidacy and supported Masha Kociper, which I also support. I was a bit active on blogs and twitters, and I had a discussion with a colleague from SDS in the city council, my colleague Turk, 50 years ago, now I looked at, 53 days ago, when I wrote on Twitter that the vote for Virant is the vote for Janša as a mandate holder and the scenario for launching the SDS Trojan horse is a brilliant maneuver and I wanted to congratulate my colleague Janez Janša for such a brilliant maneuver, and he blocked me on Twitter – this is a democratic custom. But despite all that, Comrade Virant, I don't understand your move, given that I've been very close to participating in these negotiations and I know what you've been telling us. This salad of mortals, which you have made today in search of a new coalition in the National Assembly, seems to me that it will not be paid in the way that voters have wished this new call and a new parliament. I do not want my colleague Virant ever to be accused in history of cheating on the electorate or cheating on the will of voters and voters. That's why I'm expressing some personal grief that actually came to this. That what happened with my friend Turk was what I tweeted 59 days ago. I was afraid it would be like this, but I wanted it not to be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u82	There are no more reported debaters. I conclude the debate on this point. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The National Assembly has already elected an electoral commission for the conduct of secret ballots. I also participate in it as chairman, and I am assisted by the Deputy Secretary-General, Mr Matjaž Plevelj. A vote shall be taken for one candidate by surrounding a serial number on the ballot before the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution, the candidate for which the majority of all Members will vote will be elected is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.45 p.m. and will continue until 6 p.m. After the vote, I also request Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and proceed at 18.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u83	Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of the President of the National Assembly. The vote was held in the premises of the DZ. 90 ballots were distributed. 90 ballots were delivered. There were no invalids. Thus, 90 ballots were valid. Masha Kociper got 38 votes. Dr. Gregor Virant got 52 votes. [[Masha Kociper 38.]] [[Dr. Gregor Virant 52.]] Congratulations to Dr. Gregor Virant. /Applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to everyone who voted for my candidacy. Even to all others, my sincere commitment to be first among the same, the President of all Members and Members. I believe that this move was urgently needed because of the blockade that has taken place today; therefore, understand it as a gesture to deblock the National Assembly, to establish the National Assembly, which is absolutely necessary, because we have much work to do. The first work is already ahead of us in the coming days, when the intervention law needs to be harmonised and adopted, which of course will not be easy, there are the interests of the social partners, and there will also be a need to find consensus between the parliamentary parties. In particular, I would like to stress that this is my decision to apply and that this position is also related to the work necessary to form a coalition. On the date of the conclusion of the coalition agreement, I am prepared to resign as President of the National Assembly and leave the seat to the one who will be assigned to it by the coalition treaty. In recent days, I have repeatedly said that the seat of the President of the National Assembly is an important place in the structure of power, that this place should be specifically mentioned in the coalition treaties, where content is first; so how will we get Slovenia out of the dead race, how will we get Slovenia into a better state. Only then will the positions come, and then the ministerial posts and the seats of the President of the National Assembly will come. So this election of mine applies, if I may say so, until the signing of the coalition contract. Once again, I sincerely thank you and suggest that we work intensively because we have a lot of it. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I suggest a five-minute vacation. [[...]] Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the meeting of the assembly. We're moving to Treatment 4. It's the vice president's agenda. We have not yet received any proposals for Vice-Presidents, so I would like to ask you first of all whether there is any proposal for a Vice-President of the National Assembly, otherwise we would break the agenda for thirty minutes and expect to run by 18.50. We'll pick it up at 18.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u87	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we need about ten more minutes to reproduce the material.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u88	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I inform you that I have received the following proposals for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The Group of Ten Members and Members, signed by Mr Sam Bevk as Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposes to Mrs Majdo Potrat, a group of twenty-two Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Matei Tonin, Vice-President of the National Assembly, to propose Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, a group of eighteen Members and Members with the first-signed Mr France Bogovic as Vice-President of the National Assembly. We can proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u89	Dear President, we have a small problem; we have heard today in the National Assembly about the very legality and respect of the Rules of Procedure and so on. I must say that I have been listening to this for two days now, and if we read the 20th article on the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, it is more than clear from the 1st point that the National Assembly has a maximum of three Vice-Presidents, of which one of the largest opposition parliamentary group. Now I have a serious problem looking at these proposed candidates that I do not really know who is from the largest opposition parliamentary group. I would ask the Law Service to explain how to act or what we will do in such a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. Given that the coalition for the composition of the government has not yet been formed, we believe that none of these proposals can be considered an opposition proposal. If any of the first-signed candidates wishes to qualify the proposal as a proposal by the Vice-President or the Vice-President of the coalition, please state it. Otherwise, I think we will vote. Once the coalition is known, we can also define which is the largest opposition parliamentary group. Procedural Mr Möderndorfer and then Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u91	Look, Mr President, I've asked the law enforcement officer a question so we can have a very clear answer as to what this means in this case. Indeed, the Institute of this Rules of Procedure or the institute of the Vice-President of the National Assembly does not know the duration of a period of time. All he knows is that someone has been elected to the term. We will have a serious problem that we will be in the National Assembly, as you yourself have foretold as president or then future president, or I apologize — when you have been elected, you have announced in your speech that you are temporary, which is amazing, because this rule of procedure does not know it. We are also now introducing some terminology for the Vice-Presidents, because I suppose we will change something later after we have a coalition. The fact is, the National Assembly has no outline of the coalition or anything. Therefore, I ask that the law enforcement service also be clearly defined on this issue as to what, in such a case.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u92	Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point, only two vice-presidents can be elected by the National Assembly. These two may be either and the third Vice-President is exclusively defined and must be of the largest opposition parliamentary group. Given that neither the coalition nor the opposition have defined the situation, it is not possible to elect this third Vice-President. If you insist on the procedure, then the one who gets the least votes at the vote will be the third one and will be eliminated, must be eliminated. We can't just sort of, like, I don't know what to do. The rules of the National Assembly are clear, pre-ordered; those who have been given a mandate to form a coalition and who do so have not done so. If that is not the case, then that third vice president simply cannot be elected. Now, if not, those who are candidates may withdraw their candidacy by voting in a way that will give us two vice-presidents and nothing else. Once the conditions are given to get a clear definition of who is the largest opposition parliamentary group – I have repeatedly asked these coordinations, but there was no answer – until then it cannot be done. I propose, Mr President, that we take into account what we have at this time; these are rules, rules of procedure, and that we do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u94	Thank you very much. So that there will be no legal dilemma over the election of Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents, I am adjourning the meeting for fifteen minutes. I suggest we meet the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217 to resolve this complication. Both procedural discussions went in the same direction and demanded that we listen to them. We'll meet in room 217 in three minutes and proceed at 19.25.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u95	Dear colleagues, we proceed. At the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we have resolved the legal problem by allowing this moment the National Assembly to elect two Vice-Presidents or two Vice-Presidents, that the third Vice-President belongs to the largest opposition party that we do not know at this moment. So, we will vote in such a way that there will be three candidates, three candidates, Mrs Majda Potrata, Mrs Ljudmila Novak and Mr Jakob Presečnik, and there will be a technical vote in such a way that each Member can vote for a maximum of two candidates and those candidates will be elected or elected who will receive at least 46 votes. This is how we are expected today to reach two vice-presidents or vice-presidents or vice-presidents and vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u96	Dear President! I regret that you should be involved at the beginning of your presidency with violations of the Rules of Procedure, which is the Holy Letter of the National Assembly. Because we are convinced in the Group that this is a grave violation, especially because the Rules of Procedure are very clear and because there is confusion, because we have three candidates and we do not know who the two are who are not in the opposition, because you have clearly announced that one seat is reserved for the opposition Vice-President of the National Assembly, I propose, in accordance with Article 74, that you put to the vote that the matter should be moved to one of the next meetings and that we decide only when the coalition is very clear and it will also be clear to whom the Vice-President of the National Assembly belongs, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. As I have already said, we have resolved this problem with a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is right that you made a comment; it is right that Mr Tanko made a comment. We have now resolved this problem so that the infringement cannot be discussed anymore, but of course I will put the proposal to the vote. First, I would like to ask whether you would like the representatives of the parliamentary groups to identify themselves before this proposal? I will only call for a debate I am pleased that technology is a bigger problem than the Good Rules of Procedure. [[...]] [[...]] Registration of parliamentary groups for discussion. I give my word to Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u98	If we take into our hands the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and read carefully Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The National Assembly shall have a maximum of 3 Vice-Presidents, of which one of the largest opposition parliamentary group." This Rules of Procedure do not speak of coalition vice-presidents, but speak very clearly of one of the opposition. So I think that things have been clearly explained and explained, so that we will oppose this withdrawal proposal in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u99	Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u100	Dear Mr. President! In your performance, you said that your election met the criteria for establishing the National Assembly. Today we have essentially been doing this all day, so that we can really put on the agenda the intervention law and the legislation that is absolutely necessary for this country. The election of the Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly is essentially not a necessary element at this time for the convening of an extraordinary meeting. I therefore once again call on us not to do anything that is against the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and to support a sound proposal that the decision be transferred to one of the next meetings and that we begin with the work we have been talking about all day – that we need the National Assembly. By your election, it is established that you, as President of the National Assembly, can convene an extraordinary session tomorrow and with the item on the agenda of the Intervention Act, thus fulfilling our promise to do so. Let's move on after we really know and don't pretend that if it says it's the third opposition, that we don't know what those two are — what? For this reason, I said earlier that if the proposal of the Positive Slovenia Group and the proposal of the SDS Group of Ambassadors were, these are the two largest parties, who, after the discussion that is taking place in this political life – one of these two will be the biggest opposition party. For this reason and for the fact that we are not in breach of the law and, above all, the Rules of Procedure at the first meeting, I would ask you to accept this proposal in good faith and postpone the decision to one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u101	Thank you. We will, of course, vote on this proposal. Mr Karl Erjavec on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u102	In DeSUS, we feel that this is not a violation of the rules of procedure, and therefore we propose to vote on the two vice-presidents and to set up the National Assembly as much as possible, because we still have great tasks, the intervention law then the Government Act, when we know what the coalition is, what the opposition is. We therefore propose that the proposal be considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, I cannot give you the floor because your representative of the Group of Members has already given his position. I would like to ask, Mr Tanko, who will be on behalf of the Member of Parliament [[...]] Mr Tanko, you are now on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this procedural proposal because the procedure for appointing Vice-Presidents has expired in accordance with Rule 20 of the Rules of Procedure. We will not support it either because this item has been placed on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly solely at the request of the List of Zoran Jankovic – Positive Slovenia. We opposed this proposal in particular because it was not defined what the coalition is, what the opposition is. In fact, the representative of the List of Zoran Jankovic has achieved that, with sixty-four votes or more, this has been included in today's meeting of the National Assembly and I propose that we end this point as envisaged. The proposal was made by the President of the National Assembly to list all three candidates and to obtain the Vice-President's term of office, those two who will receive 46 or more, is completely corrected and in no way affects that part of that provision, which belongs to the largest opposition parliamentary group. But if you weren't, it wasn't anybody in the National Assembly, it was the people who were talking about the composition of the coalition. That is why we will not absolutely support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Katarina Hotchevar on behalf of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I mean, if the workers in the factory don't make the daily standard, they get paid off. This agenda, let's say it's today's norm and it's fair for our citizens to do our job, because that's what we've been chosen to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Bevk on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u108	I will be very brief; the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal of Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u109	Good. I put the proposal of Positive Slovenia to the vote. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 51. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. I ask the representatives of the candidates whether they wish to further explain their proposal for a candidacy? Mr. Tonin and Mr. Bogovich, Mr. Bevk. Please, just in this order.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u110	Dear fellows and fellows, once again welcome! Today, I have read a thought that seems very appropriate today. It's, "Politics is kind of the art of the possible." I'm sure that's true. This is the first time we've solved a blockade that would continue indefinitely. We have seen that after two votes we have not solved the problem, a new option has come up and the problem has been resolved. We have before us the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. In Novi Slovenija we offer a female candidate. There's been a lot of talk today about female candidates. This time, too, women will be given the opportunity to support a female candidate. We propose Ludmilo Novak, born 1959, mother of three children, teacher of Slovenian and German language. She started her political journey in 2001 as Mayor of Moravč and then continued as a European Member in 2004. 2008 was elected President of New Slovenia. Why am I stressing this? She took over the client’s chairmanship at the most difficult times; when everyone else withdrew. And if anything, then in New Slovenia we are convinced that Ludmila Novak is the right candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly and I invite you to support her.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u112	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! Because this is the first time I've heard from all of you. Congratulations to the President of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, unfortunately, we cannot propose a Vice-President. Our voters have decided differently, so we have decided to propose a Vice-President, Mr Jakob Preseknik, whom I think is a well-known member of the Slovenian People's Party. He's a construction engineer by profession. He has 17 years of experience in Vegrad, then successful as a successful designer. In 1990 he also assisted the congregation of Mozire in eliminating the effects of the storm as then employed in the congregation. In 1994, he also became president of the executive board. In 1995 he was also the first mayor at the time of the new local self-government in the municipality of Mozirje. In 1996, he was elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the first time. It has been in the National Assembly since, with the exception of the mandate 2000-2004, when it was Minister of Transport. From 2004 until today, he is the leader of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He is a man of consensus and constructive work, what Slovenia needs today. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party it is also with joy and pride that we propose it as Vice-President of the National Assembly. I also invite you to vote for Jacob the Presbyterian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The signed Members and Members of the Social Democrats propose that a colleague of mags be elected to the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Majdo Potrat. Majda Potrat has been a member of the National Assembly since 2000 when it was elected for the first time. In the past three mandates of the National Assembly, it has proved to be an industrious and consistent Member, in particular in addressing open issues in the areas of equal opportunities for women and men, human rights, protection of minorities, preservation of Slovenian language and cultural heritage and could also be listed. At that time, she was responsible for the functions of the various governing bodies of the National Assembly. Among other things, she led the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. It has always sought to open debate and to confront different opinions through experience in the teaching profession, and has not forgotten the level of cultural dialogue among all participants in the meetings of the said working bodies. We believe that the Vice-President of the National Assembly requires a responsible and well-experienced man as a mag. Majda Potrat is certainly also, and we propose that you support and elect her as Vice-President, both Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Jani Möderndorfer has the floor first of all. You don't want to? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Zoran Jankovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u116	I wasn't going to call, but maybe it's time I told you my position. There is no doubt that all three candidates or two candidates and candidates are suitable for this city, but we will show that we are different from others. We'll stick to our principle, and we'll support both candidates. For if we have said that it is time for a woman to come to this stage, we will continue to do so and propose that the candidates be elected to the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u117	Thanks for the gentleman's gesture. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko. [[He's quitting.]] Social Democrats, Mr. Just Bevk, you want a word? [[You've already told me.]] Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code? I've been reported on my own, not knowing what's going to happen today, so I'm quitting. The DeSUS Group, Mr. Karl Erjavec, would you like a word? [[He's quitting.]] New Slovenia's emissary group, Mrs Ludmila Novak? [[He's quitting.]] We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mag. Katarina Hotchevar? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mag. Matthew Tonin? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Richard Braniselle? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Eva Irgle? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Joseph Horvath? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek? [[No, the SDS Members all checked out.]] Mrs. Renata Brunskole? [[No, no, ……]] So I'm going to ask if any of the applicants want to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The National Assembly has already elected an electoral commission for the conduct of secret ballots under item 3 of the agenda; I will also participate as chairman. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, votes shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The vote will list candidates and candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly in alphabetical order. It shall vote for two candidates by surrounding a serial number in front of the name of the candidate for which it is voted. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In particular, I would like to point out that there will also be an invalid voice on which more than two people will be surrounded, i.e. three candidates, or on which three numbers will be surrounding them. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure, those candidates for whom the majority of all Members will vote will be elected as Vice-President, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will put the completed votes in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. I know I cannot comment as President, but I would regret that only two of the three excellent candidates will be elected. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 7.50 p.m. and will last until 20.05. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet again in room 217. I interrupt the fourth item of the agenda and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 8:20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I declare the outcome of the vote to elect Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 21 December 2011. 90 ballots were distributed, and all 90 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid, so 89 votes were valid. The proposed candidates and candidates received the following number of votes: Ludmila Novak 70 votes, mag. Majda Vote 42 votes, Mr Jakob Preseknik 54 votes [[...]] [[Applause]] [[...]] [[Ludmila Novak 70.]] [[Mag. Majda Purity 42.]] [[Jakob the Presbyterian 54.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, a majority was needed for the Vice-President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, and Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Jakob Presečnik were elected. Honest congratulations to both of you. If you'd like to brief your colleagues and colleagues for a moment? [[...]] Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u119	Dear Members and Members! Thank you so much for your support. I promise to do my best to conduct a proper meeting of the National Assembly when I have the opportunity and the opportunity and the responsibility to do so. Thank you also all for supporting the woman, so you have kept your word and, of course, thank all others. What can I say? For me, it is a complete surprise today's meeting, for the first time in the National Assembly and for the Vice-President. I have to admit, I didn't see it coming this morning. Thank you for your confidence and I'll do my best [[...]] / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't know what to say. Above all, I thank you all for the votes delivered and I promise that I will, in my best efforts and in the best possible terms of experience, which I hope I have gained in all these mandates in the National Assembly and one mandate in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that I will try to transfer this experience to the proper functioning and performance of my work in the National Assembly. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u121	Thank you. Congratulations again. This concludes the 4th item of the agenda. And we're going to move on to 5. Point, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. At its meeting on 20 December 2011, the draft decree was submitted to the National Assembly by the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Member of the national communities. Maybe one of the proponents would like a word? If not, I'm asking if you'd like a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[There's no sign-in.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[There's no desire to discuss it.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision. I will put to the vote the proposal for a decree on the establishment and the task of working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and ask that the temporary heads of the sent groups and members of the national communities in room 217 meet immediately for the preparation of the 6th agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will resume in one hour, at 9:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u122	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the material will be reproduced and made available in about 10 minutes and I suggest we wait that long. I inform you that the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups has agreed on the composition of the working bodies. If you don't mind, I'd use the time to discuss one more thing. In fact, in the next two days we have very intensive work to do on the intervention law. I would therefore suggest that we meet with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, together with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, after the meeting tonight, to agree on activities for tomorrow and tomorrow. In fact, part of the activity will be led by Mr Jankovic, who forms a coalition. He will participate in the Economic and Social Council. However, we must take an important part of our activities to the National Assembly. These activities are mainly a consultation with the interested public, i.e. trade unions and other interested public, and also our mutual commitment. We also need to agree on a reference to the working body of the Committee on Public Finance and to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that the presidents of the parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups meet after the conclusion of today's meeting in room 217. I'd like you to inform those presidents who are not present. Especially Mr Jankovic, because his role here is extremely important. After this agreement, we will continue the College, where we will agree on a type of procedure with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, i.e. an urgent procedure for this law. Allow me if you agree, if there is no objection, while the material is being reproduced and distributed, I would simply read the conclusion as adopted, agreed on by the College and then we can also begin the discussion while these technical matters are taking place. Is there any comment on that? No, no, no. Good. We're moving to six. This is for the appointment of the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the national assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities decided at the meeting on 21 December that the post of Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs shall belong to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Vice-President of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The Chair of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice shall belong to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and to the Vice-Presidents of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Group of the National Gazette. The post of Presidents of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy belongs to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the post of Vice-Presidents to the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The Chair of the Joint Committee shall belong to the Group of Social Democrats and the Vice-President of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have communicated the names of the presidents and vice-presidents of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Joint Committee. In particular: Committee on European Union Affairs – President of the Mag. Branko Grims, Vice-President Mr Jakob Preseknik, Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice – President of Dr Vinko Gorenak, Vice-President Mr Mihael Prevc and Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy – Chairman of mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj, Vice-President, Mr Matevž Frangež and Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Joint Committee - President of mag. Majda Potrat, Vice President Mr. Daniel Krivec. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed decision. Would you like the representatives of the parliamentary groups to take the floor? Please, for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u123	Can I have the procedure, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u124	Please, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u125	Where's the material? Now we are discussing something you said; there is no basic condition that we can talk here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u126	I'll take it. We'll wait. Reproduction will take approximately five to ten minutes. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u127	The president of the National Assembly, I ask you, whether you order a recess or tell us what we're doing. We're not just gonna wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u128	Thank you for a good suggestion. Ten-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u129	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The conditions for the continuation of the point are now fulfilled. We're moving on to the debate. First of all, I would like to ask representatives of the parliamentary groups if you would like to discuss the proposal. [[They don't want to.]] I invite Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want to.]] [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me. [[...]] Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u130	As I look now at this decision on the appointment of presidents and vice-presidents of working bodies, Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, what has now happened in this Parliament is not good. It's not the result of elections and not people's will, but I believe it's not the will of most of us here. We have ruled out — whether they are — the largest group of Members. Nevertheless, the result is exactly the same. If we have said so far that someone has not been willing or able to speak, to agree, to talk, then we are in exactly the same situation now. It is not good that we have come into this situation at the first session of our Parliament. When we talked about the tasks that we are going to have when we talked about the General Committee, the Committee on Finance or whatever, and then said that Mr Jankovic should talk about it, then I think there was something else to agree on. When we gave two hours of rest this afternoon, I certainly had the hope that we would talk as people who sat equally and equally or received votes in this House. Once again, Mr President, I ask you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Presidents of Parliament, to be aware of the responsibility you have. We're all watching. All those of us today expect us to be able to decide that we will use all the resources. When we spoke before the elections – remember what you said, respected presidents or Members of Parliament and Members – we said that we would do this to Slovenia, so that we could swim out of what we have done more; that we would forget partial, personal, party, and that we would do something for Slovenia. I ask — all of you, all of us — whether we are capable of doing so. If we are, then it is only right to make another effort, honourable Presidents and Presidents, and you, Mr President, may be able to do more than the first of these 12 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Perhaps I should just inform my colleagues and colleagues of the meeting of the leaders of the Group. Indeed, the fact that Positive Slovenia does not have the presidents and vice-presidents of its working bodies is due to the fact that it has not proposed them either. I think it would have been or that listening was for possible suggestions if they had been submitted. However, these proposals have not been made and we have actually found ourselves in some difficulty. Please, please, the debate will proceed. Who else wants to discuss it? Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u132	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! This depravity really goes to the end, including all the actors sitting on the College of Presidents. In fact, Mr President, you ran the College today, you were once absent from the College when you were not yet President of the National Assembly, and we talked about these committees – not today, we talked today, yesterday, and before that, it was half a day before that. So we've talked three times about these things. Positive Slovenia made its proposals, made them very clear and also argued why it made these proposals, but today, after that action, what happened at the National Assembly, the matter was more than clearly seductive. Suggestions were prepared, submitted, and I will go in concrete terms. The fact is that the Group of Members or the Temporary Leader – I apologize, unless you have already become the leader of the Group of Members – has made it very clear, Mr Tanko, that they want to have the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Home Affairs – in short form I will say the names, and I have also made it very clear to the College yesterday that, given that we were initiators, initiators: first, material, expansions of the agenda and everything else, we feel this responsibility, especially in the fact that it is temporary bodies, which are clearly to be dissolved within 30 days or months, a month and a half or more with all other necessary committees, that, of course, I expect that this place of these two committees, at least, belongs to us. The answer was to usurp all power in advance, that the coalition is not known; all that we have listened to today. But here it is simple, it seems, custom and practice, that sometimes certain things are governed by one rule and sometimes by other things by another rule. The President, when you led the College today, of course, you wanted to do it very quickly and simply count it. You yourself have found that of the 89 votes to no more than 28 votes. It is true that I did not vote for or propose because I had nothing to suggest because I proposed long ago and I have long said so. Today I thought we were going to talk about what we were actually talking about. That's why this talk, what it is and what it's not, seems extremely unserious and unfair to me. Everyone sitting there knows exactly what we were talking about. Thank God the Colleges are filmed and magnetograms can be viewed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Perhaps only an explanation, respected Mr Möderndorfer, is that we have met quickly and effectively, but I believe that this is also your preferred way of doing business as you wish. However, the democratic nature of this meeting was not limited, for I was the first to preside over the College and would be delighted to align all the proposals. I would very much like to do everything in my power to bring everyone together around these proposals, but there was one effort to do so, you simply did not propose anything. Please, the debate goes on. Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today, for the second time, you are attempting to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure in the second paragraph saying: "The working body has a President, as a rule one Vice-President and members. The total number of all of them is bad luck, the positions of presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies are, as a rule, members of the various parliamentary groups." Here comes the law: "If the president of the working body is from a number of parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition, the Vice-President of the working body is usually from a number of opposition groups and vice versa." Today, I would like to reiterate that the coalition is not formed, that we do not know who the coalition is, who is the opposition. However, in view of this vote, I would ask you to go to the public and say that before the President of the Republic of Slovenia gave the mandate to form a coalition, a coalition was formed on its own, and this coalition is a coalition of all, except Positive Slovenia and SD. If that is the case, let's pour ourselves some pure wine so that we don't go around it because I don't know when you're going to get two control functions that belong to the opposition in this House, they're going to get -- I don't know who. Because if you're in such a hurry, you're going to split it into the so-called new coalition that was established here today. So let's be transparent and, above all, honest to the public and let's say that coalition 50 is formed, that it is as you said that you are the provisional President of the National Assembly, that you will go to the Minister and that Comrade Erjavec will become President of the National Assembly and that this is settled and that this is the story that is on the table, and please don't bother us by explaining that you asked us something, and we didn't propose. Since I have applied for a procedural decision, I propose that, until it is cleared up, who is the opposition, who is the position, we either stop at this point or make another effort by the presidents or temporary presidents, leaders of the parliamentary groups, and pour yourself pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u135	Thank you very much. What debate on the procedural proposal? There is no debate on the procedural proposal. Therefore, I give the procedural procedure. Can you repeat again, Mr. Jakič, what do you propose on the basis of the Rules of Procedure? [[...]] What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u136	I propose that, on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, we postpone the decision on this item to one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Members of the Group, would you like to present your views on this procedural proposal? Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u138	If this proposal is adopted by Mr Jakić, then it means that we cannot adopt an intervention law. Now I wonder if Positive Slovenia proposes that we put our hands away from the intervention law – you were the ones who always stressed that Slovenia needs urgent and swift decisions. Now I just don't understand it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u139	Mr. Tanko, the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This proposal cannot be supported. Therefore, since you have placed this point on the composition of the working bodies on your request, it is included on your request on the agenda. All these concerns, Mr. Jakič, which you have said, also apply to the Mandate-Volution Commission – exactly the same as for all these committees here. When we asked at this meeting, when we made up the Mandate-Election Commission, what was the coalition, what was the opposition, what were the dilemmas, etc., there were no answers and you calmly confirmed this committee from the same procedural concerns. It seems to me that, now that you have to decide on the composition of the working bodies, for which you have not made any proposals for leadership functions in this regard, it is inappropriate, unworthy, that you want to manipulate the National Assembly in this way. We will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u141	Mr Pukšič, position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! You, Mr President, are congratulated on your election, colleagues and colleagues, and also by your congratulations on your election to these parliamentary elections. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the agenda proposed by these six points in the morning because we were aware – no matter how things got messy, because no one really knew – we were aware that such a agenda and these working bodies should be adopted both because of the intervention law and the Government Act. If some have not been able to bring things in the way they were set up, thank God, the National Assembly has not become a hostage of such or different politics, and so we have all those elements of the National Assembly. Thus, all the conditions are in place for the agenda that was adopted in the morning — as a colleague earlier said they would not tear us away from our wages if we did not make the standard — to be carried out to the end. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the proposal of Positive Slovenia because it would harm this country. This is not what we want in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u143	Mr. Frangež, would you like to present the position of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u144	Respected and respected! I think it's the task of the National Assembly to do its job. We understand the task that follows in the form of an intervention law, indeed. We understand that the appointment of working bodies, at least one working body, if agreed, is a prerequisite for such a step and we do not want to contribute to anything that would further contribute to the delay in this task. Therefore, the Social Democrats cannot support Mr Jakic's procedural proposal. But we're proposing something else. We also consider that the proposal we have received on the table is bad, that it does not reflect what Parliament should reflect, and that is the proportionality of our representation in Parliament. That is why I am calling for all of this to be done in good faith, so that we can solve this complication tonight. We propose that the College meet again to meet at this point, that the College meet again and study whether there is the will to come to a different composition of the working bodies also with a possible reduction of the working bodies, so that we may return to the original idea of establishing one joint committee to do the work that awaits us under the intervention law. This is our proposal and also our position. If necessary due to the procedure, this procedural proposal will be repeated when we hope that Mr Jakić's proposal will be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u145	We would first finish the debate on the first procedural proposal, if there is another debate on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u146	Excuse me, Mr. President. I'm withdrawing the procedural proposal. I agree with the debaters that an intervention law is urgently needed – and so I have debated. However, I support what my colleague Frangež said that the College of the President of the National Assembly should make one more effort to see if Positive Slovenia really does not want to propose its candidates. I know that we have proposed Alenka Bratušek for finance, for internal affairs as President Maša Kociper, and I would like you to make this effort once again to really respect the rules of procedure. Thank you. I am withdrawing the proposal for a procedural decision to postpone the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I accept this initiative and interrupt the meeting in 20 minutes. I'm adjourning the session. There is no need to vote on the first procedural proposal. I interrupt the session and invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to room 217. There is no need to vote on this procedural proposal because I have the right to suspend the meeting in 20 minutes. We continue, not at 10:30 p.m., but at 10:45 p.m., to be more realistic. It's 10:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I know you're tired already. I can make you happy that after we have finished our work in the assembly, only the presidents of the parties and the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups are waiting for work to be concluded in order to discuss the intervention law. I will take the time to inform you that we will be in the hall first five minutes after the meeting and then take a group photo on the staircase. Indeed, the predominant will, especially colleagues, is that we do this today. Thus, it was somehow found that you were preparing for the painting today and that some effort was put into this. After group photography, I invite you to join us in the lobby of the great hall. Together, it will take about half an hour, and in short, a half-hour after the meeting would continue with the meeting on the intervention law. The material's on its way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we proceed while the material is being reproduced and distributed. I am informing you of the proposal by the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups on the compromise proposal, which reads as follows: EU Affairs Committee – Chairman of the Mag. Branko Grims, Vice-President Mr Jakob Preseknik, Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice – President Maša Kociper, Vice-President Michael Prevc and Kristina Valenčič, Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy – Chairman of mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj, Vice-President Matevž Frangež and Karl Viktor Erjavec, Joint Committee - President of mag. Majda Potter, Vice President Daniel Krivec. I propose that we continue the debate. We stopped when we presented the opinion of the parliamentary groups. We are already in the debate of Members, and I would like to ask you to apply for the debate. Are you ready to vote? Please. He applied — Who? Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I waited only for your permission – the Rules of Procedure should be respected. I just want to say what we agreed on, given the President's statement of facts. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we have decided to support this proposed proposal. For the first time, because we have prepared a decree and offered it to the National Assembly for admission on the basis of the consent of the College of the President of the National Assembly. And secondly, because these committees, regardless of composition, are very important, as you've already identified more or less. But the way we came to these committees is, of course, unacceptable. If this is the beginning of the journey, Mr President and Members and Members of Parliament, then of course we have started extremely badly.I believe that this is a matter of temporaryity for these committees, that we have all learned from it together and that, of course, we will also do so when we form new committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-21-SDZ6-Redna-01.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're moving to the vote. We're voting. I note that 86 Members and Members present voted in favour of the proposal 84 against no one. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] And I note that the proposal has been adopted. This concludes this item of the agenda, thus concluding the 1st meeting of the National Assembly. I'm glad we're set up and I'm inviting you to a group photo shoot. As a matter of fact, first in the hall and then out. Then the reception and then the meeting, at 11:20 p.m., the meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties and the temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups in the large lounge.
