ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Lázsló Göncz, Mr Mag. Branko Grims, Mr Miro Petek, Mr Vinko Gorenak from 3 p.m. on, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Alozij Potočnik, Mr Zvonko Černač, Mr Rudolf Petan, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Franz Puksic. Representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic and representatives of the Government are invited to attend. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 8 November 2011, with a reference to the meeting. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues of the operation of your voting devices. We're moving on to decision-making. I hope you've been checked for the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 Members and Members voted against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. So we're going to move on to 1. On the presidential list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the state-of-the-art community. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, wrote to the President of the Republic of Slovenia by letter dated 26. Ten. On the basis of the second indent of Article 97(2) of the Public Prosecutor's Act, 2011, he proposed candidates for members of the State Prosecutor's Council. These are: Mr Darko Maver, Mr Matjaž Jager, Mrs Katja Sugman Stubbs, Mr Jože Tratnik, Mrs Alenka Mežnar and Mr Mag. Joseph Kovac. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Mag. Urošu Krek, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, for an additional explanation of the candidate list. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask that, as soon as the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic speaks, we may be a little quieter to pay attention to the words spoken. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary General of the Office of the President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the President of the Republic has provided you with a candidate list for members of the State Prosecutor's Council. On the candidate list: Dr. Matjaž Jager, a professor of law at the Faculty of Law, an expert in criminology and criminal law; mag. Mr Jožef Kovač, Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, which operates in the field of police law and systematic regulatory activities; Dr. Darko Maver, Professor at the Faculty of Security Sciences, Crime Specialist; Mrs. Alenka Mežnar, former Attorney General, Expert in Alternative Measures in Criminal Procedure; Dr. Katja Sugman Subbs, Regular Professor at the Faculty of Law, Criminal Law Expert, and Mr. Jože Tratnik, former Judge and President of the Constitutional Court, and Judge of the Supreme Court. The proposed experts shall be nominated in accordance with the invitation of the President of the Republic, which was published on 16 September, to which the six candidates referred. The President of the Republic acted in accordance with the call for elections of members of the State Prosecutor's Council, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 5 September and which he has called for elections to the world today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The candidate list was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u4	A beautiful, perhaps final greeting to all in attendance! In the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the State Prosecutor's Council, as I have learned from my colleagues, will be supported by one abstention vote. That will be my abstention. When I've reviewed all the suggestions, I must say they're probably competent people, I don't doubt that. But this abstinence voice is still kind of a protest. Protest against politics; a policy that today, after 20 years of democracy, interferes practically with all times of our lives – "policy über alles". This has particularly convinced me what is going on in the 2011 election campaign, how politics rules the fourth branch of government, and I have no doubt that it is also interfering with the judiciary. So my voice is the voice of protest against it. We've seen how the regime media can, I'll say, force some new leaves, and this cane hasn't even matured since they cut it. So another list turned out to be a priority. In addition to the criteria clearly recorded, national television suddenly serves other criteria, the so-called relevant list. Editors shall determine which leaves are relevant and which ones are not. What if a party called a press conference, they came to the press and the caller called the editor and said take this reporter back, he's not relevant, we don't want him, we don't want him to have another journalist, he'll write another one? What would they do to me in this case? I see the sights that I've drifted away from the darkness. I'll be back, just a brief summary. Politics today, after 20 years of democracy, interferes with everything but life, and I have no doubt that it is not also within the judicial branch of power. Let us seriously think about how candidates should be identified, confirmed, and how to ensure the autonomy of authority that should act autonomously and sovereignly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats supports the decision of the National Assembly to hold today's election of members of the State Prosecutor's Council to be elected by the National Assembly. If we did not do so, the State Prosecutor's Council would not be complete because four members elect prosecutors of its kind, one named by the Government, and we are convinced that the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Council is important for achieving the objectives set by the new State Prosecutor's Office Act, which is greater independence, independence, expertise and efficiency of the work of the public prosecutor's organisation. We are convinced that we are acquiring the State Prosecutor's Council with important new powers that guarantee greater quality of work of the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as greater independence and independence from politics. In fact, the Attorney-General adopts a policy of prosecution following a previously reasoned opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council, and the policy of prosecution is one of the important new solutions included in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which has not yet been implemented. Therefore, the question and discussion as to whether the powers conferred by the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice were properly distributed or not. The State Prosecutor's Council has new important competences in the field of human resources policy. Its increased role will reduce the impact of policy on decision-making in the personnel of the state prosecutor's organisation, and that is another reason why we believe that it is right and necessary for a decision to be taken today. On this basis, there will be a composition of the State Prosecutor's Council, which can be more independent and independent of politics. This issue has also been raised on the Mandate-Election Commission – not to say in depth, but large enough, and the city also has an unprincipled, at least in my opinion – debate. In fact, the question of whether or not policies can make professional decisions for concrete solutions seems important, but the answer is that policy is somehow involved in this decision. According to the current constitution and legislation, the National Assembly has the power to appoint constitutional judges, appoint judges and play a role in the appointment of many other institutions. Are we therefore going to say that the National Assembly is in charge of depriving the government of all authority to take away all the powers that the President of the State has in this regard? The question is, How do we come to these decisions? We think that the path chosen and dressed here is good, because the proposed candidates must also be experts by the President, not politicians; and secondly, because they must be proposed more than they are directly elected. It is said that more than four — this time suggested by six — that we also have the opportunity in the National Assembly to make the appropriate choice through secret ballots. On specific proposals. I do not know whether it is the responsibility of the National Assembly and us, as Members and Members, to respect and assess the quality of the specific people proposed, but not to hold them unworthy to use this term. Look, Dr. Darko Maver is a regular professor of crime class at the Faculty of Security Sciences. Will anyone hope to claim that this is not a law enforcement expert? I'm an extraordinary doctor. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I talk? Yeah? To make you hear better, I'll speak louder. If anyone has overheard, I've warned you that Professor Dr. Darko Maver is a regular professor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u7	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u8	for the subject in the field of criminality [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u9	Mr. Punch, can you just wait for a moment to see what's going on with the sound devices? Is there a light on?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u10	Does that ring a bell now?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u11	All right, you can keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u12	Let me say because of the magnetogram – I wanted to stress in particular that when we evaluate proposals, we assess their actual expertise and importance, but not that we take the right to assess the politicisation of an authority if we do not have any real basis for it. I said that Prof. Dr. Darko Maver is a regular professor in the field of criminal science at the Faculty of Security Sciences – that is, a person who is undoubtedly professionally involved in the problem of prosecution; that Prof. Dr. Matjaž Jager is the director of the Institute of Criminal Sciences at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana; that he is undoubtedly an expert in the problem of prosecution; that Prof. Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs was a regular professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law, a doctor of law and a university psychologist dealing with the problem of prosecution; that Mr. Jože Tratnik was the Deputy State Secretary for Justice and General Administration, that he was a judge of the Supreme Court, and also the President of the Constitutional Court – hopes that he was not an expert proposal? Alenka Mežnar is a specialist in juvenile justice and Mr Mag. Jožef Kovač performed important police work in his career and also conducted a state law exam at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, published many professional articles, taught at many higher schools, including in Europe, and there is no doubt that he is a specialist in the field of criminal law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor. I say this because I would like to confirm that the concept of the law that has been prepared is such that it gives the possibility for decisions to be taken in the State Prosecutor's Office with the influence of the State Prosecutor's Council on the basis of professional criteria, which is also an important reason why it is right that the decisions before us are supported and that, in the framework of the six quality candidates proposed by the President of the State, we choose the four best in secret vote in our conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Vinko Gorenak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I've been thinking about how to start my last performance for this speaker in this term, and I'd say, "Dear Members and Members of Parliament!" And that doesn't make sense, maybe it would be better to say, "Honored viewers and viewers," because those who have adopted the law don't listen anyway. But I will still give my position or position to the Group of Members. The SDS parliamentary group objected to this law. Today is the final version, already the final part of the implementation of this law in terms of the appointment of the State Prosecutor's Council. We objected to this law for substantive reasons. One of the most important reasons, at least for me personally, was for voting against the State Prosecutor's Council, which I will explain below. Already in preparation, or at the time of adoption of this law – consideration and adoption, including public presentations of opinions – I was talking about the political occupation of the prosecution's organization. I insist. I'm staying. At the same time, it is clear that the emergency procedure is being carried out today — take this urgent procedure into account, since we are in pre-election time — the last act of this occupation, in the military language, would say disarming the defeated or whatever. That's true. We candidates, and I would like to stress this in particular because of the candidates on the list, we will not support them, but the reason they are not their names, I stress, the reason they are not their names – in the end I will also touch some names – but the reason why they are opposed to the law as such. In particular, I repeat: we will not support them, but not because of them, to value them and to overestimate them, whether someone is appropriate or not according to political criteria, but because of the content of the law that places the previous state prosecutor's organisation on the head. This is the main reason for all of our voting. Let me remind you – there is no point in talking about the entire State Prosecutor's Office Act, but I will only talk about those articles that indirectly touch the State Prosecutor's Council, its roles, its compositions, etc. We have heard the words of the minister about this speech and many of the speeches in the National Assembly about this law when he said that it was about strengthening the independence of prosecutors. He went on to say that it was to strengthen the independence of the prosecutions. He didn't talk about the prosecution because he broke the single prosecution organization by law into a number of prosecutions. The law greatly praised the Minister, as we have always been used to, for example, in the law on police, which is also the most modern, the most European in that part, which speaks of the appointment of the Director-General of Police, and you can expertly read the analysis of the research sector of the National Assembly that the National Assembly has adopted provisions in that law that no European state knows or does not enforce, which are similar to that of the two, but they do not. The same is true of this marriage. To talk about how modern, European law is, how it strengthens autonomy, responsibility and how it will handle it now is a simple lie. It was just a lie. However, according to individual articles, the following is the case. The Minister has incorporated into the law, so he is three times longer than the old law, practically all the articles he had in the State Prosecutor's Order, and of course what the Constitutional Court said to him, "No!" The Constitutional Court, in its instructions, said no, stopped them, did not allow them to be used and judge them. But the minister made a bypass and incorporated it into the law, and the law is now in force. Or, in other words, if I'm polite, it's the Constitutional Court that says we have to respect. That's what he says; but he doesn't respect him. We've seen this in another case. We also expected of this law in the sense of the State Prosecutor's Council something completely different. See, "timeliness of work" – are these words used in this law? There is no "timeliness of work" in this law, nor in the case of the State Prosecutor's Council. To think, for example, about the Railway or something like that — this did not come to mind for the coalition! Or another case which is one that is problematic in any way throughout the judiciary and even in the prosecution's organization, is the supervision of prosecutors. The D.A.'s office is out of control. Article 137 of the Post Festum – it is said that once the actions have been completed – allows for control. This is like controlling a doctor’s work only when the patient is already underground. It's out of the question. It's not control. We missed the law of work. It's not in this marriage. Look, the minister made some sort of organ in the compound. The first version of the law was already an organ in the system. That's what they wrote. Now they've thrown that out, and then they've moved something else. It's about the Commonwealth Council. I'm going to put some things in particular here because they seem very important to me. The state d.A. Order is, in a way, a petitioner for prosecutors. It's a relatively clear matter. Now let us see what expertise, legality, and fine things are involved. That's not true! This is the weight of the people, which has been adopted in this regard. According to the old law, the Attorney-General wrote down the State Prosecutor's Order, accepted it and sent it to the Minister. The minister couldn't say no. Look what's in the new law, now the law in force. The Attorney General is even allowed to give an opinion! Can you imagine?Oh, my God! The Attorney-General gives even an opinion which the Minister does not have to take into account anyway. And the Minister's writing down the state record. Now let someone say that this is now more professional and more autonomous if a bunch of politicians at the Ministry of Justice, who the Minister brings there, write down the state prosecutor's order and sign it. The Attorney General gives even an opinion that we will not take into account in any way, and then we say that this is more professional than it was. You can't paint me with that, not even many prosecutors. Take a look at the next matter relating to the State Prosecutor's Council. How beautiful Article 36 is – we are talking about the independence of prosecutors. Can you imagine? This is the most important sacrament of this law and all the words of the ministers. What's the situation now? The State Prosecutor's Council, by a two-thirds majority, proposes the appointment of prosecutors. Isn't that democratic? That's great! So the two-thirds majority of all these people mean that six out of nine will have to vote that John Novak — an imaginary name — will become the prosecutor somewhere, I don't know, in Lendava or Murski Sobota. That's really democratic. Now look what the law says. Article 36 states the following: "The invitation to tender is unsuccessful if no candidate has applied," that is logically, "if all applications have been rejected or rejected," okay, "if the minister does not propose to appoint any candidate". Don't fuck around! A two-thirds majority is also required in the State Prosecutor's Council to appoint a prosecutor! The minister, who is a politician, says "no" to two-thirds of the State Prosecutor's Council. Now let anyone else claim to be an expert! No! No! It's a political occupation and nothing else. The State Prosecutor’s Council, which is either the topic of today’s conversation or today’s debate in the National Assembly. You can't paint a person who can count this 10, and you can't paint any Slovenian with this thing. What does the old law say? The old law made it clear that the State Prosecutor's Council is composed of seven members; one may be proposed by the Minister and one must be the Attorney General and six proposed by the Prosecutors. Was this an expert body based on the old system? Of course he was! Six were proposed by prosecutors, and one by a politician named Minister, but this one had to be the prosecutor. Let's say he was on the minister's line, but there's still six prosecutors. What we are doing today, which is the final phase of the prosecution's occupation, as I said, is the following; and this should be professional what is coming. What is the new situation? In a new state, and today we are dealing with this, but there are nine members of the State Prosecutor's Council. Watch out for their composition! One is proposed by the Minister, four of whom we will elect today, by the President of the Republic and four even by prosecutors. So now it's 5 to 4. It is said that five people appointed by politics against four of the prosecutions are therefore more professional than before, where you had six prosecutors and one proposed by the minister and he was also the prosecutor. This is now a profession and this profession is in the mental frame of the left-hand side of this House, otherwise it cannot be. For the sake of the public, I repeat: time allows me to do so. The old situation was clear: one by the minister who must be the prosecutor and six by the prosecution. So, the prosecutors themselves sat there, but that is the top of the line — isn’t it? The new situation, which is left-handed in terms of expertise in this National Assembly, is that we have: five by policy, of which one is proposed by the Minister, four by the President of the Republic or by the National Assembly and four by the Prosecutors. So the prosecutors have a new minority. This minority is subordinated to the majority called politics, and you claim it is more professional now. Is that more professional now? This is the same situation as in the case of the Director-General, which does not apply to the current person sitting there and, of course, tomorrow can happen so that someone who is not a police officer will come to the head. It's the same as me applying for a maternity director in Postojna and becoming a gynecologist on the day of my appointment. Yeah, where did you see that? That's what the Police Act says. However, the prosecution law is similar because you claim that five people appointed by politics are professionally in the past when they were all appointed by prosecutors and were all prosecutors. Wasn't that an expert? Ladies and gentlemen, time is running out. That's not right, you can laugh as much as you want, probably for the last time. If we go to the candidates. I said we're not going to touch them, but my duty is to mention at least two people, even though the names of the candidates are not at all role-playing. Dr. Darko Malar. Mr. Potz has read all about him, much more can be found, probably there was no time – but, okay, he holds everything. Last but not least, let's be an honest, independent chief of crime police. I can't tell him anything because I can't, and it's unfair to criticize him. I won't touch the others. Maybe another person. See, the Attorney General, Mrs Mežnareva, who is also a candidate – everything is nice and good if it were professional. But as soon as she retired — a guest pen in Del! What was she doing? I wrote, of course, contributions against Mrs Barbara Brezigar. Then she sat where Mr Petan was sitting when we had a public presentation of our opinions, and, of course, she made this speech with praise and five gifts to the minister, what a fine marriage he had written. And, look out, one more thing. When we spoke of Mr Shinkovec, who was attacked at the time of the appointment of the Attorney General's Office because of that sentence of that priest and so on. What did he say in the press release? He said he was judging by those laws, he'd never do it again today, he apologized, and he's sorry that he did it. He did the right thing for me. He said he didn't run, and he never will. He did the right thing, but he was attacked in Del; for he apologized and was attacked. You see, this is a mental framework that belongs to the left-hand political option supported by the media. And that's how we get it. I haven't studied the other candidates. I don't have time. I know Dr. Mavre, and I remember her from those articles I read, and I never touched the others. Our opposition to this appointment or election or whatever it is called is not conditioned by names and surnames but by the final act of the political occupation of the prosecution. In the new government, in any case, this law, at least in my opinion, must be changed as quickly as possible and the prosecution's organisation must be restored to that independence and not allow what is now done. In fact, six, seven prosecutors are more of a profession for me than five appointed by politics and four by the prosecution, which this law has passed. That's not a profession. It's a political occupation of the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much and good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am grateful that we normally have an opportunity in the Group of Members to present our position immediately for the group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This appreciation comes from the fact that the debates we hear on such or other occasions inspire us greatly. This time, too, I must say that colleague Gorenak has actually highlighted some of the points, and if we leave those simple expressions that he has afforded – let's just say there was something interesting about this implementation. It's mainly about the political occupation of the D.A.'s office. Of course we could laugh about it. I guess we all have a historical memory and we know what the state of affairs and how the state's attorney in Barbara Brezigar's beautiful old days worked. At that time, the prosecution was in the hands or even in the clutches of a political option or even one of the leaders of a political party. Certainly the prosecution was in hand at that time — not Barbara Brezigar, but Janez Janša! If what we have today - where is it clear that it predominates in the selection of candidates and members of the State Prosecutor's Council - a professional evaluation - someone calls political occupation, what could be said for the time when the prosecution was in the hands of Barbara Brezigar-Janez Janša? Political cooperation? Probably. But the fact is that the law that was discussed today, although it was expected that we would be discussing a purely formal procedure, which was confirmed and which was clearly explained to follow the law, merely formalism, today we see that that is not the case. It was expected that a new press of the Slovenian Democratic Party would be expected, which, in this election campaign, is trying to tarnish and mutilate the judiciary in particular by attacking the permanent term of judges, and in this case also by unwarranted attack on the election of members of the State Prosecutor's Council. The talk was also about a law that one parliamentary party does not so much recognise, in the fact that this law was democratically and in this Parliament, this national assembly has been confirmed. but the law is in force, such as the current constitution, gentlemen of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Let's be aware of that for once! This constant, czech, problemise everything that creates and substantiates the rule of law in Slovenia, is to follow the logic "the worse, the better". We have been used to this, and nothing new has been given in this implementation to critically identify ourselves with the names presented. Firstly, because the law on which this proposal is based is a good law; a law which in a balanced and legally sustainable way maintains both the professional autonomy of the prosecution and what we expect from the government, because the prosecution is not a pure judicial branch of power. There is much debate as to whether the prosecutors are closer to the judges or closer to the executive branch. This debate will probably never be concluded because it is an interesting hybrid; the fact is that it is necessary to maintain as much autonomy as possible, at the same time the government and the executive branch are always responsible for the quality of the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, the way in which these members are elected under the law is the only right one. Four members are elected directly from the prosecutors, one member is elected by the government and four members are proposed by the President of the Republic, who is constantly identified by the SDS with one political option. No! No! This is the institution of the President of the Republic, which is elected directly, not the expression of the parties, not the expression of political options, but, above all, the expression of the broadest civil society. He represents all of us, represents the country, and he does not choose candidates, but on the basis of applications, on the basis of the expert references of individual candidates, confirms the list he is submitting to the National Assembly. So, this part of the list cannot be attributed to political occupations. Isn't that right? It is only the government that directly influences the structure, although also with one prosecutor. But all these dilemmas are ridiculous in the fact that, throughout the previous term, we had a highly politicized and highly political state prosecution; and so politically speaking, all processes were halted. For example, the prosecution against the tycoon, which was so expected by the public from this government, was blocked by the prosecution in the hands of one party. This is what we have finally overcome, including the new law and the depoliticization of the state's Attorney's Office! So the occupation of the biggest opposition party is not that someone is politically occupied, but that they are no longer able to politically occupy the prosecution, and they will do their best. I believe that if the justice minister is their famous candidate, the most influential Slovenian lawyer who knows how to deal with some of the judges – see what happened in Cyprus when this lawyer made a friendly agreement with the President of the Supreme Court, who helped his client, and then this judge stepped into this lawyer's office. This has happened and this will probably happen if this policy option is to be in power, and this needs to be well aware. Therefore, there is no doubt that the Group of Members would not really support this list of candidates today. We will elect four of these six candidates in a secret vote. We don't have any special preferences, we think they're all professionally credible. And the fact that someone wrote in a newspaper and had expert discussions and articles on the functioning of the rule of law is now some kind of sin. Please, where are we?Oh, my God! What's coming? What comes if an option is won that challenges freedom of thought and freedom of expression for individual intellectuals! The Group of Members does indeed support this list.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished colleague and colleague! The State Prosecutor's Office Act was passed, if I am not mistaken, in July this year and I do not intend to debate this much because it was then and before the final adoption. In accordance with this law and at the proposal of the President of the Republic, we love four members of the State Prosecutor's Council. Otherwise, in the parliamentary group, we want our justice system to be effective, which is certainly one of the necessary conditions for the rule of law. The rule of law in Slovenia is not yet functioning effectively enough. Instead of effective judicial decision-making and prevention and sanctioning of illegality, these issues are all too often politicised and abused for populist purposes. Anyone who commits a crime or other illegality should be treated equally and effectively under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the category of the rule of law. At the same time, both in the media and in social perception, everyone must be found innocent until his guilt is established by a judicial judgment. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we observe that the people before the courts or in proceedings are not treated equally, which gives us the feeling that customerism and corruption are also present in justice. It is necessary to fight this; so that we can really tell our country the rule of law, so that people will believe and trust in our justice system. Today, in our opinion, this is not the case, and it is also the fault of the prosecutors. The judiciary must enjoy the reputation and authority if it is to act as the guardian of the rule of law and balance and the limitation of the other two branches of government. However, that reputation must also be earned. The best way for prosecutors and judges to do so is through their own work and expertise, and the state can only do so by supporting justice to the fullest extent possible and by providing it with good conditions for normal work. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we want professional and capable prosecutors who will bring matters to court and to judgment in a way that will not lead to an outdated procedure, that there will be no such and other procedural errors that cause the proceedings to fall into the water, and those who have broken the law are free to walk around our country. For the members of the State Prosecutor's Council, we will support all those candidates who, in our opinion, will have the most positive impact on the work of the State Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Mag will present the position. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office of the State, Members-in-Office and Members of Parliament! I won't be long. At Tuesday's emergency meeting, the Commission took note of the candidate list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the State Prosecutor's Council. Of the six proposed today, we will confirm four Members who, in the first term of the State Prosecutor's Council under the new State Prosecutor's Act, will carry out tasks and responsibilities that will have a key impact on the effectiveness of the work of the entire State Prosecutor's Office. In our parliamentary group, we have come to know and put together and carefully reviewed the materials that have been available to us, and we can see that their professional competences are appropriate in the proposed candidates, as we can judge ourselves, but we have listened, some even excellent. They are all known and respected lawyers, both theoreticals and practitioners, and mostly with long and varied work experience, and their work experience is also appropriate. Such is the joint assessment of our Group of Members. I will not discuss the law that has been passed, whether it is right or wrong, nor will I discuss what has been said quite a bit on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I have listened to it with care, but I would only say that we are aware that the legal basis for the appointment of candidates to this important body is entirely legitimate because it is still a public call by the President of the State that anyone who is a legal expert may respond, irrespective of such or other political affiliation. As has already been said; that is why today our parliamentary group will participate in the selection of candidates for the State Prosecutor's Council and we will confirm four of the six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we are somewhat reserved for all appointments, as we have experience in taking responsible positions, especially when policy decides, to propose candidates who are mostly close to the current policy. Although we do not want such privileged candidates in the Slovenian national side, as we can see, the practice is such and it is not possible to do so. In the Slovenian National Party, we want and in the future we will insist that the prosecution, the judiciary and the authorities of detection will be independent, especially of policy. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, in the next mandate, we will propose amendments to the judiciary system to take away the permanent term of office of judges and to abolish investigative judges, thereby significantly increasing the effectiveness of detection and prosecution bodies, thereby contributing to a shorter and faster procedure to the final epilogue. We have been talking about this for at least 15 years, but, as we can see, it is still not the right time to rationalise procedures that would lead to a faster trial. All other solutions that improve nothing are offered. He's stalling all the time with procedures that are basically obsolete and nobody's responsible for it. It is not a problem in bad marriages, but it is a problem in people who do this work and are obliged to enforce the laws consistently as they are written. There's a problem. There's too much political influence, clientism and corruption. At one of the meetings when the prosecutor's law was dealt with, one of the prosecutors present with long-standing practice said that there was no such pressure from politics as he had experienced in this mandate in his entire career. As we've seen, the Attorney General's presence did not demente this. Such conduct is people’s fault, so it is right that judges and prosecutors are completely independent of what they cannot claim today. It is therefore appropriate to limit their mandate and evaluate their work, at least every 10 years. The law is in force. What we are discussing today is an integral part of the current law. As I mentioned earlier, we have good laws that are not respected. This was especially felt by workers and subcontractors when they did not pay the contributions, wages, and works of subcontractors and thus pushed themselves into the misery of thousands of honest workers. These were crimes that we have been alerting in the Slovenian National Party since the beginning and which could be prosecuted by official duty, but they are not. Minister Zalar realized that after two years, and he also warned of that. The effect was maximum, as more than two thousand lawsuits were brought before the prosecution, of which only 28 were brought before the prosecution. On my question to Mrs Brezigareva, why only 28, she said it was a systemic error and that the prosecution would not deal with it. As we can see, workers and subcontractors who have been cheated in our country are a systemic mistake. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the same will happen to the company law and the property confiscation law. Both marriages were confirmed very recklessly in the National Assembly. The profession was not on the side of the laws, but they were evaluated by politicians. During the 1920 ’ s, over 4,000 600 laws were adopted in the National Assembly, which means that every other day a new law was passed. The laws were corrected by any current policy that was in power, from various interests, either with the interests of an individual or certain parties, which the Members did not mainly object to, and were blindly following the interests of capital and individual coalition friends. As it seems, it will not be any different in the future, as media-favoured candidates are already offering new laws and rules that will fit only them and the nation will be forgotten again. In fact, it is not about new people, but about proven foxes with long-standing practice either in the economy or in policies supported by the media. It's not about whether you have a good program, because if it were a condition, you wouldn't be putting yourself in the first and second places of Viranta and Jankovic when you didn't even have a list or a program. If the prosecution and the judiciary were to work well, and if the consciousness of the various people who are running for the highest positions at the European level were to be considered, they would not run at all, because zero tolerance should still have weight. On the other hand, as we read in News on Tuesday, 15th, all people are given a poor example by Mrs Kresalov, as former police minister, and Minister Zalar, current minister of justice. Such and similar things have already been condemned or are still pending. Otherwise, let each one read and create his own opinion. We will support candidates in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, he will present Mr Mag's position. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye to all of you! We have six candidates before us. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be able to select four of the best by means of a procedure that we have checked, carried out widely, correctly, in accordance with the new law, from this group of six candidates; each of us with ourselves, with our conscience and conviction there in that cabin. On the proposal of the President, a number of professional and political issues have been raised, but we estimate that most of these issues have already been resolved, as the proposal for a state prosecution law was adopted by an appropriate majority in the National Assembly. In our view, it still provides the right and appropriate solutions for the prosecution to work better on the one hand, more effectively and more quickly to reduce the backlog. The law itself gives an important weight and a place to the State Prosecutor's Office in the chain since the discovery of police crimes, an eminent story will be covered by the National Investigation Office, which has proved to be a success story. The National Investigation Office is rapidly detecting an increase in the number of crimes and has seized more than €30 million of assets. Now it is also the task of other instances to ensure that the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts carry out their own proper procedures, in which there will be no doubt. The fact is that the problem in Slovenia in all areas is lagging behind, and from all those in this chain, from the police, through the prosecution, to the courts, we expect them to do their best. Each one of us and all of us have in our actions, in our lives there are sure reserves and the moment and time in which we are, the real thing is that everyone shows and proves himself. However, decisions between independent branches of government should be respected, but they do not comment on each other or abuse each other. As has already been said, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be able to choose from a set of six prominent candidates and candidates those who, according to the personal conviction of each of us, are the best. I am sure that in a group of nine people in the State Prosecutor's Council they will be able to assess what is best for honesty and democracy in Slovenia. We also reject those claims that the powers of any minister are too great. On the contrary, there are guards, there are opportunities, and we are convinced that politics does not have too much weight in this story. However, at the last meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, it was possible in the heat of a pre-election struggle, in the heat of a struggle, that some claims were made that every candidate or every thing going through the National Assembly, that it left its mark on the person and that this is negative. In Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided on democracy, in democracy, political parties with sufficient support have an important task, and politics has an important task, and even more so is the National Assembly. The one who speaks ill of political decisions, the one who speaks ill of the decisions of the National Assembly, speaks ill of himself first. Each of us has its own responsibility in this area, in the Liberal Democracy Club we knew and know how to wear it. We are also pleased with the achievements achieved at a practical level by the operatives of the National Investigation Office, and we are proud that the Minister in the field has done the work he undertook at the beginning of his mandate. Maybe it's been a few years, but I think the messages and the marriage grounds are good. We have also been the only ones who may not be as much reserve in the field of legislation as in the work and implementation of this legislation. This is probably one of the last performances or the last on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you all very much for the time and for the way we have walked as Members and Members together, we have no offense to anyone, but we all want all the good in continuing our personal, political or other ways of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I now allow myself to say this because Member Gorenak is not in the Chamber. I would like to say my opinion on the fact that with all four candidates or six candidates, we will elect four of them who have been proposed by the President of the Republic for election to the National Assembly, I agree, I agree that all of them are excellent experts and that, in fact, there will be a problem on our side, which four of us will decide on. In this regard, I would also like to stress my deep disagreement with the presentation by Mrs Alenka Mežnar, a candidate from Gorenak, that when she retired, she suddenly began to advertise in the section of the Guest Feather. It sounded as if she was no longer an expert the day she retired. I must strongly object to this. It is for Mrs Mežnarje that I know that she has participated in a number of years in the Council of Europe, in expert groups, and that she was exactly the representative of the Republic of Slovenia in preparing individual starting points for relevant legislation in the Member States. So I find it very unfair to talk about individual candidates in this way. Otherwise, it was also very clear from this presentation today and even more from the presentation and debates at the last meeting of the Commission on Mandate and Choice, how respect for the rule of law and the Slovenian Democratic Party are to each other. In fact, I am asking the question whether I want to participate as a Member in the election of these four members of the State Prosecutor's Council, and I am sure that the law is completely inappropriate and bad. This speaks only of the fact that these persons are not prepared to respect the rule and principles of the rule of law, for which they are, of course, often spoken in a declaratory manner. May I also remind those colleagues who were also sitting in the previous term that we have seen repeatedly how attempts have been made to dismantle the rule of law in the previous term — by whom? By the same parliamentary party. So to refresh your memory. And yet another thing has been said both on the Mandate-Election Commission and today, which cannot possibly be forgotten. This is the claim that all candidates proposed for election to the National Assembly are politically contaminated and are politically defined and that the result of this fact also means the political occupation of individual bodies, in this case the State Prosecutor's Council. However, it is likely that if we accepted such a thesis, we could also talk about the political occupation of other authorities, for which the President of the Republic proposes the candidates. This thesis is very dangerous. Let me ask you: Do you agree that, in the case of, say, when candidates for a constitutional judge propose to the National Assembly for election, does this mean that the Constitutional Court is also politicized? Probably not. I'm sure you don't. The President of the Republic proposes to elect the National Assembly also the judges of international courts, the judges of the Republic of Slovenia - are these elected judges in international courts politically contaminated and trying to exercise political occupation perhaps of these international courts? Such theories are very dangerous, and I think that we Members and Members should also strongly object to such concerns. Last but not least, the judges are elected by the National Assembly for a permanent term – can we then say that the entire judiciary is politically contaminated and that our justice is politically occupied? These are very dangerous issues, and in a democratic country committed to respect for the rule of law, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, this is extremely unacceptable and inappropriate. As I say, I'll know myself, I hope, to decide. I must also say that, in all the candidates proposed, there is no doubt that they are actually very quality, high-quality experts, and who among us will ever read any professional literature, such as criminal law or criminal policy, will only be able to do so and nothing else will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm glad we're together. I would like us to be together in the future and decide on the content that would help our country, the Republic of Slovenia, which is a beautiful country and is, however many speak, still a rich and beautiful country. Today we are talking about the candidate letter from the President of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the State Prosecutor's Council, but unfortunately again I hear only political statements from one another and from another. At all times we have not heard of the names and people we decide about: Prof. Dr. Darku Mavru, Professor Matjaž Jagru, Professor Katji Sugman Stubbs, Jože Tratnik, Alenka Mežnar and Mag. Joseph Kovac - six proposals for the four elections proposed by the President of the country. It is already that we are talking about this today at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly that says - all the indications we have heard - that we want to or do not want to appoint a political decision because we are deciding on the President's proposal. It doesn't make any sense to talk about whether it's political or not. As we have heard from one of the previous speakers, if this is a proposal by the President of the country, this is not political. Yes, of course it is. Who can say that the distinguished Mr. Former President Milan Kučan was not a member of the Union of Communists or the SD? As the distinguished President of the State Drnovšek, unfortunately deceased, was a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. As we know, the current President was also a sympathizer and a member of a political option. That's why it's stupid to talk about this here and say, "He was, he wasn't..." Yes, he was! Everyone has his political affiliation and everyone has the right to his political affiliation. Even the President of the State, although exempt from a political option, has this right and has some conviction in his heart. To talk now about this being a purely apolitical proposal from Halooo! [[...]] We lie to each other, which is nonsense, and be honest with each other. The essence of the appointment of honourable gentlemen as members of the Irritant Council is that the prosecution, thank God, once it has begun to work. That's the point! To choose people who would know that they were going to work as prosecutors. Today, many content was mentioned that were not made by the prosecution and should be. My colleague mentioned the prosecution against the tycoon. He was gone and he wasn't there! And there was no persecution and there was no persecution. The point is, let us name the people who will carry out their mission, the prosecutors, and carry out their work, and accuse those who have been charged with crimes. Me, just like my colleagues. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, prepare for Mr. Franci Kek. Are you giving up, Mr. Saiovic? Mr. Franci Kek? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic! We have before us the appointment of the State Prosecutor's Council or members appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic from legal experts. In adopting this law, which we now appoint and are obliged to appoint, I have repeatedly stressed that unfortunately this law does not withdraw prosecutors and, of course, the Council of State from the area of political influence. It is true that it is sophisticatedly prepared so that there are no immediate signs of policy implications for a less observant observer. However, at a given moment, when we are just before the elections and certainly before the change of power, at the very last moment, we wish to bridge, at least, the first term of the next authority by appointing the State Prosecutor's Council. The mandate is six years old and the intensity is visible from the air. Otherwise, I believe that the proposed candidates are experts in this area, but the law itself has provided for the Attorney-General to draw up a prosecutor's plan, where he will also identify which things will be pursued, which will be delayed. He will also have the opportunity, as far as the law makes clear, to put certain things in the drawer. This, as stated in the law, gives the opportunity for some to be persecuted, but for the present power of the consecrated ones there will be no persecution. And this is at a time when economic crime, corruption and other things are before this country collapses. However, there is no interest in this country in prosecuting the crime of white collars and corruption and all that is covered by it. How long will you protect dedicated corruption participants in all possible ways? Why does nothing happen with the attack on the financial system of the country, through financial institutions and through banks where hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros have gone to the dedicated accounts?Oh, my God! Taxpayers must recapitalise state-owned banks over and over again. This is why the entire system, prepared by Minister Zalar, protects dedicated participants in this economic crime. As a result, this solution cannot be supported. I don't know if everyone who's proposed is aware of what kind of loop they're involved in. Once again, we must find that there is no interest in persecution and that you will do exactly everything, even though you will no longer be in power in the next term to protect those who have so horribly pushed our country into collapse. Every week we have new and new cases when Slovenia becomes a problem country in the financial field, when it has breached the Greek criteria when it is necessary to ask for the assistance of the International Monetary Fund and financial institutions. Here, however, government policy is playing with the fate of this country and protecting its branches of government. Surely, by those who have carried out this attack on the financial stability of the country, they will also be richly paid in the current electoral campaign, and you will thus get a few percent better results than otherwise, if those who should be brought before the court and under the ambiguity of the prosecutors are to be brought to justice. All of this has been delayed, some scenes are performed for the audience, some investigations, and then: everything was quiet. Why don't we come over here today? And there would also be Minister Zalar, who should be present who might claim that he has indeed prepared an operational law that will save Slovenia from this evil corruption and economic crime, at least to a large extent. Minister Zalar seems to have carried out his mission to the public and has done so skillfully. I admit to him that he has done well, but not in the interest of the state of Slovenia, and not in the interest of 99% of Slovenian citizens or more than 95%, but it is all in the interests of the financial oligarchy, in favour of those who have brought this country to its knees. With huge amounts of money seized, they will be able to use the best prosecutors, who are the next branch of government in this country — not prosecutors, lawyers, but the next strong branch of power, the operational authorities in this country. As a result, the experts mentioned today are called upon not to accept this game and this scenario; to withdraw themselves at this stage, so that the operational plan and the law can be made and everything else, which will allow prosecutors in this country to do what they are set up to do – to prosecute the worst cases of economic crime. That you are not prepared to do so in this power was demonstrated when the Penal Code was adopted, when we proposed that a specific crime be an attack on the financial stability of the State and the sovereignty of the State. What happened in the financial system of Slovenia with the help of some other tycoons, of course, has bewildered this country and threatened its sovereignty. For all this, it is not possible to support the continuation of this process of protection for those who have so severely affected this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u32	Thank you very much. At the time of parliamentary holidays, we are witnessing in this National Assembly that a large number of people are mainly referred to, or dealing with, agenda items with staffing proposals and also the validation of people to the most crucial positions in Slovenia. Instead of dealing with some laws — including intervention laws that should be coordinated with the social partners earlier — it would make sense to deal with them at a meeting such as today. There is no need, however, to convene an extraordinary meeting to confirm the nominations for the State Prosecutor's Council for two reasons. The first is that there is no need for this to be done in view of the fact that the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is in fact no longer the most legitimate. Secondly, this law provides for the appointment of these candidates and candidates. I do not want to go into their expertise either, but I leave it to those who are familiar with their work so far, but we can very rightly ask ourselves whether such a form of appointment is truly democratic in the sense that the prosecution in Slovenia can behave or act in accordance with expectations in the coming years, especially in accordance with a just state – not legally, with a just state. So far, we cannot say that we have a fair country in Slovenia. Prosecutors are only those who have to process from economic offences to crime, but we see that this is not always the case. Now it'll be all the more obvious. If we leave this relationship, which the coalition has confirmed in this law, that politics, which means the National Assembly, has the option of naming five out of nine, regardless of who proposes it, that is also a big question. But what's most worrying is that every prosecutor that this world will then appoint will be decided by the minister. What does that mean in other words if we translate it? That the minister would probably agree in advance, not in public, but in some background, with the State Prosecutor's Council, which prosecutors would receive his support and be appointed. This is clear and clear that all future appointed prosecutors can be expected to be politically appointed to know in advance how to deal with individual cases. This is not good, this is not some optimism that will be economic crime [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] and other forms of crime in Slovenia, which unfortunately increasingly has also been successful in solving. That's why I'm not going to support these proposals myself, but not because of the name, but because of the way and the "coupling" that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Given the debate so far, very briefly the following. To say that today we should not appoint members of the National Prosecutor’s Council, appointed by the National Assembly, means to speak about our failure to respect the law. I think we have to respect the law, but not to advertise, because we are not satisfied with it, that it is not respected. For this shows what will be the course of action of those who think so today, even in the future. I don't accept it, and I don't think we should do it that way. Second. Today we are not discussing the content of the law and everything we have said about the law is out of the context of the agenda because we are discussing that we want to realize it. Third. I would be very happy if, at least – I hope, the last meeting – we had a few more arguments, not without arguments. For example, to talk about avoiding the decision of the Constitutional Court, because the content of the way in which state prosecutors work is now contained in the law, not in the decisions taken by the Attorney General. That's not true! If anything is unconstitutional, the constitutional dispute shall be opened and the Constitutional Court shall assess whether it is unconstitutional or not. Don't fool the public. To speak of being politicized because the competent minister has the right to decide not to accept certain proposals for a member of the State Prosecutor's Council or for a prosecutor. That's not true! If a decision is taken on the State Prosecutor's Council by a two-thirds majority, there is no right on the part of the Minister, except that that obligation, which the State Prosecutor's Council has adopted by a two-thirds decision, has been fulfilled. It is a pity that we are working again to show how one political direction or option does not wish to exercise legality and act against economic crime and politicises the functioning of the prosecution, while the other wants to act well. When we will try to work together in order to help regulate things that will benefit the state, citizens and citizens, but not to incite half-truths, inappropriate conduct. I hope that such a system of work will soon cease and that we will be more creative and correct in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u35	Thank you very much. He would like to speak with the proposaler, Mr Mag. Urosh Krek? [[He doesn't want to.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see that it's a request for a debate, so I'm opening the application. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. I give the floor to Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'll be very short. I wanted to use this opportunity to deny the claim made earlier by Mr Grill, and I see that you have also agreed to the word – that is, it is not true that the State Prosecutor's Council appoints prosecutors. So it is necessary to read the law on which we are going to conduct elections today in the State Prosecutor's Council. However, Article 34 of the Law on the State Prosecutor’s Office – what we are talking about today – states that the State Prosecutors are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister. I just wanted to show you how many people you're talking about when you're talking about this marriage. Also in line with previous discussions on the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council, which the State Prosecutor's Council does not have. I think it should be at least as correct as those who speak of the weaknesses of this law, to speak at least of the real weaknesses of this law, but not to attribute to it something that is not in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u38	I've run out of time before, so some responses to the predecessors' discussions. It is also partly acceptable to seek an excuse to respect the law. However, I ask you all how many laws we have adopted in Slovenia, which the National Assembly has adopted, but unfortunately they are not implemented. A few days ago, we listened, say, to the asbestos law that was passed, and everyone in turn says that the law is not respected. Not to talk about other laws that should be implemented in practice, but are not implemented. There is also no argument that an extraordinary meeting should be convened to call it that. If this law had waited for appointment in the new term, nothing would have been completely wrong. To talk about the fact that the Constitutional Court has not judged this law - I agree, it has not yet been judged. However, formerly, colleague Gorenak said well that, with regard to those instructions he had prepared for the State Prosecutor's Office at the time, the Constitutional Court had decided that they were not in conformity with the Constitution. However, the course of further events was as follows: that that instruction is now beautifully prescribed in this law and that the matter is being resolved. That's not true! If anyone finds himself interested in putting this on the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will be able to rule that this law is inconsistent with the Constitution. But it will probably have to wait, so today we cannot know and judge. The claim or finding that, before the end of the mandate, people are now being recruited to key jobs with some specific objective for the future, that different institutions will be used or abused for their own good. A few days ago, we witnessed how the State Election Commission worked. It was published publicly on the irregularities and illegalities of the LDS party, including Minister Zalar, with former Minister Kresalovo, who abused the situation and tabled the application and forged the signature [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Anderlich, it was shown how he signed [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It was signed on behalf of another [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't talk, no! Don't make excuses here! Such a thing would require a different kind of persecution. And now the Head or Director of the National Election Commission explains that this is all right. When we warned of this conflict of interest, when you appointed him, that he could not be a member of the LDS in the post of Head of the State Election Commission, that it was a conflict of interest [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Anderlich, you're obviously feeling that way, aren't you? And so it will continue with the institution of the Prosecutor's Office to act in this way. This is a key reason why this law or appointment is still being considered in this reference, at this extraordinary meeting. Therefore, as I said: do not be misled, your purposes are more than clear! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u39	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and brings us to a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we will now have to appoint a committee to monitor or vote in the near future in view of the secret ballot, I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary offices and in the hallway to come to the hall so that we can carry out this vote and approach the later secret vote. I'm going to wait a minute because it probably doesn't make sense that we're going to formalize and then we're going to figure it out once, twice. [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the vote on the candidate list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the State Prosecutor's Council. The election of members of the State Prosecutor's Council shall take place on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 100 and Article 101 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, subject to the reasonable application of the provisions of the Judicial Act governing the election of members of the Council. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts provides that the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts of Election, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič from Social Democrats, Marjan Bezjak from the Slovenian Democratic Party, Franci Kek from the Zares Group and Guido Kres from the Slovenian People's Party Group. I am a member of this commission, as chairman, too. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? If not, I shall put this proposal to the vote of the panel. We're voting. There were 57 votes in favour and 57 in favour. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] That's why I find that the commission has been appointed. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table, giving his name and taking over the vote. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. In doing so, we vote for four candidates, and for a maximum of four, we can also round up the number before the name, but we can also vote for fewer candidates. The vote, which will cover more than four numbers before the names of the proposed candidates, will be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that vote will also be invalid, from which the Member's will to vote will not be clearly reflected. However, if there are four or less numbers on the ballot, the Member's will shall apply to all the surrounding numbers where it is clearly visible. Where it is not visible, however, will not be taken into account. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the four candidates for which the majority of MEPs and Members will vote will be elected and will receive the maximum number of votes. It is said that the largest number of votes in the order in which the fourth must also receive the majority of the votes cast in force. If the four candidates do not receive the required majority in the first vote, a second vote shall be taken to vote on the number of candidates to be elected. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who have obtained the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to the vote. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 13.55. The vote will take 15 minutes, that is, until 14.10. For this time, the meeting of the National Assembly will be suspended. We will reconvene at 2.30 p.m. when the results of the vote are announced. So, start the vote at 13.55, from 13.55 to 14.10 and then the results at 2.30 p.m. Members of the electoral commission are now meeting in room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-17-SDZ5-Izredna-51.ana.u41	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. We are moving on to a closed agenda item, which is to announce the results of the vote on the basis of the candidate list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia as members of the State Prosecutor's Council. I declare the results, this is the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the four members of the State Prosecutor's Council, on the basis of the first round of voting in which all four candidates or members are elected. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 17 November 2011. 71 ballots were distributed, 71 ballots were delivered, 17 votes were invalid, 54 votes were valid. The candidates adopted the following number of votes: Dr. Darko Maver 10 votes, Dr. Matjaž Jager 51 votes, Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs 49 votes, Jože Tratnik 50 votes, Alenka Mežnar 45 votes and mag. Joseph Kovac, no voice. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, a majority of the votes cast by the Members of the Parliament and the Members of the House of State were elected: Dr Matjaž Jager, Jože Tratnik, Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs and Alenka Mežnar. I sincerely congratulate all elected members and members of the National Prosecutor's Council and wish for a successful job. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and also today's 51st meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you all that Mr President of the National Assembly and Mrs Secretary-General have invited us to a brief farewell in front of the hall in an hour, says 3:30. Thank you very much. A lot of success and good-bye. The meeting was closed on 17 November 2011 at 2.36 p.m.
