ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's follow-up session cannot be attended by the following Members: Alenka Jeraj, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Breda Pecan from 14.45 p.m., Andrej Magajna, Ljubo Germič, Franc Jurša, Miran Potrč, Zvonko Lah, Villa Trofenik from 15:00 p.m. and Rudolf Petan. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 22. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution of the national assembly to determine the decision of the Constitutional Court. The motion for resolutions was tabled by Mr Marian Križman and Mr Luka Juri. The motion for a resolution shall be held at its 12th session. 5. 2011 treated the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the motion for a resolution after the discussion, the second consideration of the motion for a resolution was completed at this meeting of the working body. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The motion for a resolution is an interesting novelty in the work of the National Assembly and to some extent it makes sense for the National Assembly to clarify its decisions, particularly when they are contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. When it comes to this principle of explaining your conduct, it could be totally acceptable and would also be supported by our Group of Members. However, since the resolution refers to a story that is practically completed when it comes to the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, we believe that the adoption of such a resolution is unnecessary. In this regard, we also believe that Members and the National Assembly, as an institution when deciding on a matter, should think carefully three times before pressing a button in the direction that the decision of the Constitutional Court is not respected, but should refer to any content in that country. We believe that the decisions of the Constitutional Court also apply to the National Assembly, which is a separate branch of government, to the Council, and that only respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court is actually building the existence and functioning of the rule of law. We believe that in the future, everything must be done to ensure that the National Assembly takes such decisions in good time, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, without delay, without much explanation as to why anyone disagrees, and in this way, it will also be established among citizens that the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, as the highest legislative and legal body in the country, are respected. From this model point of view, because of the already established municipality of Ankara, this resolution is not up to date and is therefore not intended to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Mr Marijan Križman has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows! We have put the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision into the procedure of the National Assembly, desiring to define in a respectful and reasoned manner the constitutional arguments which made it impossible to establish a municipality in the area of Ankaran. Notwithstanding the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has assessed that there is no need for a resolution, the whole argument in which the constitutional arguments against the establishment of the Koper municipality are already contained in the debate on the law which would allow the establishment to be established is rejected. Finally, the Social Democrats decided to follow such an interpretation and decided, therefore, that we would not support the resolution because it would not have any new legal effects. That is why we have already rejected it in the debate within the parental committee and have allowed the National Assembly to focus on other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! After what we have heard and what we have been monitoring about this resolution, I really don't know what to say on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group's position. On the committee when the vote on this resolution, which was tabled by the two Members of the parliamentary group of the largest government parties, the Social Democrats, was the result of a vote, none in favour and seven in favour. It is said that those who have proposed something have voted differently or have changed their mind in this process, which in some symbolic way shows the seriousness of the functioning of this ruling coalition in all other areas, but in particular the seriousness of the action of the largest government party, the Social Democrats. What was the purpose of this resolution of the National Assembly until the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision U1-137/10-47, we can read in the introduction, where the proponents stated that the Constitutional Court had infringed the constitutional right of citizens to elect local authorities and the legislative powers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Now I am taking this opportunity to take a few words around this new Constitutional Court decision, which in some ways has enacted a new congregation, even though the legislation in this country is clear and says that the new municipalities are being established by law. It is in some way an important predecessor who will not be left without consequences in the future. However, it is also a matter of how it is possible that the Constitutional Court, in past decisions, when it comes to even more important matters for this country, for example, one of such unfulfilled demands was the enactment of a majority electoral system that people voted on in the referendum, why the Constitutional Court did not take such a measure in those cases. It is likely that Slovenia today would not be in such a difficult political economic situation as if this decision, which was voted by the Constitutional Court at the time, was also legal or adopted. However, in this process, as regards the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran, I think it was a process where the greatest black spot in this process can be attributed to the ruling or Social Democrats. Remember how the decision to hold a referendum in this area was voted. It was voted after the then leader of the Social Democrats Group, Mr Kontic, announced that the Social Democrats do not support this approach because such a referendum would be contrary not only to their views but also to legislation. And what happened? The Group of Social Democrats voted differently in the vast majority, as the leader of the Group announced a few minutes earlier. And from here on out, the problems that have arisen, to the fact that in two similar cases, both of which did not meet the legal conditions, have been voted on by different people, which is not exactly in honor of the National Assembly and not in some way the rule of law. However, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted pursuant to this decision, on which this resolution speaks, which, when we heard by the proposer himself, is irrelevant, speaks of the fact that, in some way, the Constitutional Court sought to eliminate the alleged constitutionality of the law, because the law in force in this country does not allow the establishment of a municipality such as the Constitutional Court's decision to establish in some way now, which constitutes a constitutional problem around which there is likely to be a future speech. I think it would be worth spending more energy and more time than telling about why and how the complications of the setting up of the congregation of Ankaran have occurred and who is most responsible for these complications. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we cannot agree to repeated accusations where the ruling coalition, in particular the Social Democrats, fails. The opposition, or the SDS, is to blame for their breakdown. No, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to take responsibility for your inappropriate decisions yourself, if not sooner, you will have to put this responsibility on the table before the voters, I hope that as soon as possible. In short, as one of the two applicants has already said, this resolution is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! On June 9th, our first Slovenian writer, the founder of the Slovenian language, was born, Protestant priest Primož Trubar. On 9 June, Russian Emperor Peter I. Great was born. On 9 June, he was a doctorate in medicine at the University of Vienna, the composer Gustav Ipavec, who also enrolled Slovenian here. And that's in world history. Our history, Slovenian, will also go to June 9, 2011, because this is the first time that the relationship of non-compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the Slovenian Constitutional Court will simply cut it off. Therefore, on 9 June, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided on the initiative of constitutionality of the Electoral Call Act and, of course, only established the municipality of Ankaran and thus cut off the Gordija knot which was set up here, in the National Assembly, from most Members and Members. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we find such a move by the Constitutional Court perfectly reasonable and expected. It is clear that those Members who did not comply with the November decision of the Constitutional Court, in which the Council of State ordered the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, acted arbitrarily and arbitrarily. However, it is not lawful to act arbitrarily and arbitrarily either by Members. The ignorance of some Members exceeded all reasonable limits and the Constitutional Court had to act accordingly. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the purpose of the resolution was to force the Constitutional Court to make a big mistake, which is, in our opinion, unprecedented. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have announced this foolish attempt by the motioners of the resolution by obstruction. Even more absurd was the provision in point 5 of this resolution, which provided for an apology by the National Assembly to the people of Ankara on the basis of a decision to call for an advisory referendum, since the National Community of Ankara would not meet the conditions for the establishment of its own municipality. It was not proposed by a real coalition member. Is any comment even needed? If so, we should apologize to those Members and Members who have been consciously opposed to this decision by the Constitutional Court and thereby to the new congregation of Ankara, as we have proposed in the amendment ourselves. Members of the Slovenian People's Party note that the establishment of the municipality of Ankara will be recorded in the practice of establishing Slovenian municipalities, not in unimaginable, as a procedure in which a great conflict of different interests took place in the end or an interesting interest coalition was formed in the vote, with a convincing majority of votes against the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. In our view, the whole process is a very sad story of the National Assembly, which certainly has not helped to enhance its reputation, which is already at such a low level. After all the legal attempts to establish the congregation of Ankaran failed, we expected a discussion in the Slovenian People's Party about understanding the situation between the legislative and judicial branches of power. But, unfortunately, we didn't see it coming. By a decision taken last week, the Constitutional Court cut down the political objectives of the national assembly majority and established the Municipality of Ankaran. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome such a decision because it is a clear signal to the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court is not dedicated to itself, but it is an institution that protects constitutionality and legality. Members are also obliged to respect the Constitution and the law in accordance with Article 2 of the Law on Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, good day on the first day of the summer! JeanBaptiste Robespierre was a Utopian socialist. I knew that we did not learn his river Laissez faire et laissez passer for free – let everyone do what he wanted. Apparently, it's a popular phrase that slows down. Why did I start like that? I was paying attention to the predecessors, and it did not seem right for me to politicise the matter again from this content, whether the resolution was proposed by the SD or by anyone. The fact is that we have very unresolved issues about the relationship of the three branches of government. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, we have the right to our opinion, but the Constitutional Court, by its last decision, has exceeded its powers. But that's our opinion, and we have a right to it. Since the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, you were all present, the law establishing the municipality of Ankaran was reviewed three times and rejected three times. [[adverts from benches]] I have the information that he rejected him three times. If not, you can also oppose Mr. Kristan of the State Council. However, after this comment, the National Assembly made some decisions. Now, whether these are right or wrong, there is no point in arguing whether it is right that one congregation is set up and the other one is not, why it is not, and so on. I think that this is a matter of respect for legislation, which, unfortunately, has been the National Assembly for at least 11 years since I've been here, except now, never respected. We established municipalities, despite the law, which provided for a minimum of 2,000 people who had 300, 500, 70 people. The National Assembly broke its own law. And now to argue over this with the Constitutional Court. It bothers me that the Constitutional Court didn't find out about this years ago. The former and former authorities have also worked just as they did, following the current lane, the third year of their term of office was the setting up of congregations, as it seemed. Today we have what we have. The Constitutional Court adopted a decision. Against this decision, the National Assembly found no other solution than a motion for a resolution. The legislative and legal service says that such a resolution should not be that some refugees are not supposed to be fit for it by their content and definition of the resolution. On the other hand, some experts note that the resolution is a smart move, a good move by which the National Assembly can show some disagreement or defend its decision. The National Assembly therefore adopted decisions; the Constitutional Court stood up for him; it set up a congregation. The resolution is now to state once again that the National Assembly estimates that the establishment of a new congregation is contrary to Articles 2, 8, 64 and 139 of the Constitution. And in this resolution, of course, it also explains why this establishment should be contrary to the law. Therefore, if there is no other form, the resolution is one of the forms which we consider appropriate in the Slovenian National Party and would be, if it were not the opinion of all different, told the Constitutional Court that the matter is from a different point of view, i.e. in terms of the legislative branch of power, different. However, it is indeed sad that the resolution comes as a good attempt, and then the authors of the resolution oppose their own resolution. That wasn't a good decision. I mean, if we are already trying, and if we are looking for a solution with a resolution, let us stay with it, and we, Members and Members, will then say whether this resolution is appropriate or not, whether it is substantively sufficient for the purpose of its application or not. In the Slovenian National Party, if we already decide on this, we will oppose the negative proposal and support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Your Honor! The procedure for adopting this resolution could not have ended in any other way than it was, therefore, that it failed, that the mother's working body had no support with the number of votes and that the process had been completed. The fact is, the whole process of setting up municipalities in this mandate was rather strange, things were changing. And the truth must be told that only two parties, who are together 11 Members, have always voted and supported the proposals on the table. It is true that both the Government and the National Assembly found that the territory of the municipality of Ankara met the conditions and therefore called for a referendum. It is impossible to agree to the thesis that he called for a referendum even though they did not meet the conditions. This simply does not correspond to the truth, and I am surprised that such a proposal could even come into the process of saying after a year and a half, two years, but now we have found that the conditions have not been met. They were. It is sad that those who were in the first stage for then radically because of their own interests or any other, have withdrawn support and have to point to others who were consistent, to break the law, the constitution and not know what else. No, it's not. The one you changed your mind about when the law on the proclamation of results and the establishment of municipalities in this assembly was adopted, then the Council of State collapsed, one vote was missing, 45 votes in favour of re-voting the law, but it was adopted on the basis of results, based on the fulfilment of the criteria that were met. There's all the documentation. Here they are most unjustifiable to say anything about it, those who have done it this way and point their finger at others and I don't know what. I will not point out to the two parties who were the loudest here today in this sense, but in fact acted unconstructively or inconsistently in their weekly votes. Let us leave aside what happened on the Committee on Local Self-Government and in the leadership of the National Assembly, which for some time did not want to put this issue on the agenda, even though we had a decision by the Constitutional Court and even a number of things because some did not. For us, it has always been only one thing – whether interested people have the right to decide on the referendum and whether they fulfil the conditions for it, and if so, then we must enable them to do so and take into account the result achieved there. Other things for us have never, in this particular procedure, been questionable. Of course, the surprise was so great when, in the same process, for one area with about the same number of inhabitants, perhaps even with the poorer fulfilment of some other conditions, the congregation established but not here. We had the opportunity at the beginning to say, "Yes, even if you meet the conditions, we think that the congregations are too many, we will no longer establish them." More than that, and one example is foreseen for the next mandate to even happen where the three municipalities are supposed to unite into one because of better management options and greater effects on some things. That is why I would certainly not be supported by this resolution, especially because of the 5th point, which is absolutely incorrectly written down. It's not true what the motioner wrote down. If anyone and anyone has to apologize should be the one who changed his decisions from the beginning and in the next stages. That would mean something, not that we all do it together.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the motion for a resolution has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the basis of the audit report on the payment of damages and the construction of an over-the-counter over-the-counter-counter-counter-counter. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the National Assembly. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission to Mr Mag. To Andre Visiak for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for the supervision of public finances dealt with the issue and decisions of the Court of Auditors concerning the payment of compensation to a natural person in the construction of the Pluska-Ponikva motorway section and found, in fact, appalled that calls by the Court of Auditors were completely ignored. In this case, when we are talking about the freeway section of Pluska-Ponikva and the irregularities identified, it is very simple things. First time. The construction of the motorway resulted in the payment of high compensation to a natural person and, according to the Court of Auditors, the natural person is not entitled to this compensation at all. It amounted to a million and a half euros, and the compensation was based on the calculated economic damage suffered by an economic company rather than by that natural person. Thus, compensation was paid to a natural person or a person with a last name and name, who himself did not directly suffer damage from the placement of this route and the construction of the highway on this section, but to a company, an economic company whose owner he is. The Court of Auditors then found that the compensation in question was inappropriate and overestimated, as it was based on incorrect data and took into account that the company entitled to compensation would, in essence, have to travel for a longer period of time due to the construction of this motorway section, although the shorter route was available, meaning that the compensation was overestimated. Furthermore, the agreement with this natural person also achieved that the natural person would build an overpass, which is not possible under law. And a whole bunch of other problems are in connection with Darsa and the responsible people of Darsa in concluding this particular deal. The Court of Auditors found irregularities, included them in the audit report and imposed corrective measures on Dars and those responsible for Dars, with corrective measures being assessed as partially satisfactory or unsatisfactory. As a result, the Court of Auditors issued a decision on a serious infringement, a serious breach of the obligation to do business and called on the Darsa Supervisory Board to initiate a procedure for the discharge of the responsible persons, namely Mrs Mateja Duhovnik, President of the Dars administration, and Gordana Boskovic, members of the Dars administration, with all of us knowing together that the two ladies are still in this position today. So we're dealing with the ignorance of those responsible when we're talking about respecting the calls of the Court of Auditors. According to the Constitution, the Court of Auditors is the Supreme State Auditor. This is not the first time that this has happened, but for the first time it has happened that it is a call for the discharge of the responsible person of one company, which is 100% state-owned. We therefore propose that the Commission propose to the Government and the Capital Investment Management Agency that measures be taken to respect calls and conclusions of the Court of Auditors, but not that the Court of Auditors will in fact be a lame member of the audit chain, which is generally avoided if political or other capital interests so favour it. In this particular case, there was also a linkage between the supervisory councils and the administration. In particular, the Supervisory Board has been vehemently circumventing the findings of the Court of Auditors and has attached it to the Administration, not to the Supreme State Auditor. And the result is that we have a lot of problems associated with Darsa's operation with this particular failure to pay subcontractors and another Darsa problem, and the administration is happily sitting in its chairs and cheering on Parliament, on the Commission for Public Finance Control, on the Court of Auditors, and probably on everything but their botts, which they have given her the appointment to these positions, obviously not. Your Honor, Parliament has to react in this regard and is therefore being discussed at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Here you are, Minister Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In principle, there is no doubt that the decisions of the Court of Auditors must be respected. I've said this a number of times in public. Perhaps just for clarification, when the Court of Auditors calls on an authority to be dissolved, the Court of Auditors Act states that such a decision must be respected, that is a diction, and if the decision is different, this decision should be explained. So basically, the Law on the Court of Auditors has already been written in a way that allows for a different solution. I'm not defending this right now because I'm saying you don't have to do this. Don't get me wrong. I'm just saying what the law says. However, the Court of Auditors is, of course, the supreme auditor in the country when a decision is taken, it is also respected. Although I would expect these criticisms to be made by someone who has always respected the decisions of the Court of Auditors, your government is not at the invitation of the Court of Auditors to dismiss the Minister of Environment and Space, your government did not respect it. Therefore, it is a little more difficult to accept criticism from someone who has not always been consistent in this regard. However, let me say that when we look at the legislation itself, the government has no direct influence on the visual board, the agency has an influence. The Agency was set up by the National Assembly. I repeat, the Court's decisions must be respected. Given the fact that the National Assembly has set up the AUKN, of course, it is now possible for the Government to call the AUKN to act and it is already in one of the other matters, but also the National Assembly as a body to address the AUKN, which, in fact, also as an authority, has put up its appeal. Only the AUKN is the one who can appoint or dismiss supervisory councils if they have or have not acted on what they consider to be a requirement of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-worker! The Social Democrats' Group will not support the Commission's proposed decision on public financial supervision. We estimate that the proposed decision of the National Assembly is not appropriate when it imposes on the Government and the Agency what you need to do, but of course we are going to avoid a few procedures that need to happen earlier. Above all, we are going to miss the responsibility of both governments and agencies, which are independent bodies and have their position towards individual companies in the majority or full ownership of the country, also defined in law and regulation in the management of businesses. We do not contest the right and, last but not least, the duty of the Commission to monitor public finances to consider, in accordance with Article 29 paragraph 29 of the Court of Auditors, a notification by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia of a serious breach of the obligation to do good. It is also the right of the Commission to control public finances to decide that this content shall be dealt with at a meeting of the National Assembly. The problem for the Commission is that it did not wait for the reasons for Dars’ supervisory board to explain how it would comply with the Court of Auditors’ proposal, but was in a hurry to reach a decision on the inclusion of the point in the meeting of the National Assembly without seeing what the decision of the Supervisory Board of Dars would be and, of course, an explanation that is very important in doing so. The fact is that the Law on the Court of Auditors provides that the authority which has been requested to discharge the person responsible must decide on the call and its decision in writing to the Court of Auditors within 15 days of the notification of the request. In this case, the Authority is the supervisory authority of Darsa, who had to report in writing to the Court of Auditors. He also did so after receiving a decision from the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The fact is, however, that the Government is no longer directly responsible for the management and control of state-owned enterprises, which is why such a decision, which calls on the Government, cannot be adopted. Also, the AUKN cannot commit the members of the Supervisory Board, Dars, to the discharge of the administration. The participation of Darsa shall be the responsibility of the Management Board and the Agency shall have the power to appoint and dispose of the Supervisory Boards as a Assembly on the basis of the Act on Companies and the Law on the Management of Capital Companies and on the basis of guidelines on corporate governance of companies. In view of this fact, the supervisory board of Darsa bears full responsibility and has carried out its decision in accordance with the Court of Auditors Act and has concluded that the call is unfounded. In accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors, Dars prepared a response report to the Court of Auditors’ audit report, in which Dars prepared corrective measures which are not entirely satisfactory for the Court of Auditors. Of course, it should be mentioned that Dars has made even worse mistakes in the past, in which the Court of Auditors found, in particular, members of the administration appointed by the previous government, for example, an assessment by the Court of Auditors on the feasibility of implementation and financing of the highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia between 2004 and the end of 2007, that Darss is found in business books and financial statements on day 31. 12. 2007 did not show built public road infrastructure at a total value of EUR 5 billion. However, the assets of the Republic of Slovenia have been shown to be low at EUR 2 billion 400 million. This is what Darsa has done in the past and today, as far as he appears, we condemn. Until Dars' operation, we are critical, especially when Dars is not operational and consistent in the implementation of his contracts to operators and in the work of discharge to the detriment of subcontractors. We have also set up a Capital Investment Management Agency as a central authority to oversee the operation of such enterprises and make them more efficient. I believe in the agency, and I believe that this case will be resolved accordingly. In order not to support the reckless use of public funds or the financing of public infrastructure at all, it is necessary to look at a case that also emerges from other perspectives. In this case, there is also a contract between Dars and Kovacic. You'll have to ask yourself what would happen if there was no contract. Could we still be without the Dolenjska Highway, which would be particularly detrimental to security and the bottom economy? Did the negotiations and the desire to conclude the last section of the motorway in Dolenjska really make such mistakes that require the immediate withdrawal of the administration, which was included in the business only at the end of the negotiations and only carried out what many predecessors had agreed much earlier, but did not initiate the dissipation procedures and thus acquire suitable land for the construction of motorways? As a result, these and similar situations of Darsa with a distance, objectively and comprehensively, should be seen on the basis of what this would mean for traffic safety, the country, the economy and the population living in this section of the road or otherwise linked to this part of the motorway. The Downland Highway is open and therefore the cost of the economy and the population is lower and transport security is much higher. Although the Court of Auditors considers that EUR 312,000 has been recognised as excessive compensation, the benefits for the lower economy and, of course, for others are much greater. As it is said, the Group of Members will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the decision proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, namely that the National Assembly proposes to the Government and the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare appropriate measures to take account of the calls made by the Court of Auditors for the discharge of responsible persons in the event that the Court of Auditors finds in the audit report that corrective measures are unsatisfactory. It is interesting and significant that the President of the Dars administration and members of the Dars administration, as well as the support of the entire control board of Darsa, in the event of fully proven irregularities by the Court of Auditors, took place in connection with the payment of compensation for the construction of the overpass on the Dolenjska motorway at the Pluska-Ponikva section. Even when the Court of Auditors requested the management of the audit measures and they were not taken into account, the management of Darsa and the Supervisory Board did not respond. Moreover, Darsa's supervisory board has supported the administration and has embroiled with the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has thus turned into a harmless tiger and has moved even further into a field of action to achieve fully political objectives. How should we explain the fact that, on the same request of the Court of Auditors, the Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec was relieved of the fact that there was nothing left for Borut Pahor and, in the case of Dars, Vlad remained silent and did nothing? Does this mean double criteria? In this case, it has also been clear that the establishment of a new capital investment management agency has not justified its purpose, which we have been alerting all the time. In this case, the AUKN, like the one with jurisdiction over the appointment of members of the Dars Supervisory Board, has also done nothing and has not dissolved the Supervisory Board. Why? And the Minister of Transport has been pilatically washed off her hands when, with Dars, I have nothing, it's under the purview of AUKN. Moreover, it appears that the AUKN has been established only to confuse political responsibility or that the Minister of Political Responsibility, if not appropriate, is to dispose of and transfer to another body. But the respected coalition, as many of you as are left, you have advocated the rule of law, you have advocated respect for the Court of Auditors, do so and respect it when it does not suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government or ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Notwithstanding the fact that the point under consideration relates to a specific notice from the Court of Auditors and the specific problem of compensation for the construction of Pluska-Ponikva, the proposal opens up an opportunity for a debate that goes beyond the scope of this particular problem. The problem that has recently arisen in our country is a general disregard for the decisions of the institutions, which draw their task and competence directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the highest act of our independent country. Let us begin with ourselves and move on to our threshold. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court is the highest judicial authority for the protection of constitutionality and legality and human rights and fundamental freedoms. Until recently, we have sworn in politics to the sanctity and inviolability of his decisions. It was only a matter of public doubt that their decision was a sin that suffered severe reactions. Let us recall those deleted when, without a legal basis, decisions were issued only on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court to the so-called deleted. Today, when the Constitutional Court, and not for the first time, sanctions the will of the National Assembly, we have come from talking about the need for a critical assessment of the decision, of the excess of competence, of the separation of the branch of power from the assessment of the coalition Members that it is a coup. What principle and consistency?Oh, my God! And now the same National Assembly, which ignores and ridicules the institution of the Constitutional Court, will put itself in the role of a saint and a judge in the event of ignoring the Court of Auditors' demands. Very interesting. Before, my fellow Members and colleagues, what are you discussing and discussing a lot of things together, I suggest we examine our own conscience. Even though the principle of "let the stone cast by the one without sin" is morally controversial, it is nevertheless legitimate for the State Assembly to discuss it. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that irregularities should be discussed and pointed out. However, if we want to change the general public opinion and the general climate in our country and restore respect for and respect for state institutions, this must be done first and foremost with our own example. How should we convince citizens and citizens that laws must be respected if it is evident that only some are applicable? How should the State, its authorities and its institutions regain the reputation and trust that any consensus on structural reforms is needed if we inform them daily that we are not subject to the rules we have written ourselves? A lie can also be an excuse, a family-friendly bond. The Court of Auditors does not need to be taken into account, nor does the Constitutional Court, of course, only in the case of our people and our interests, but otherwise God does not give the State Institute to the saints, citizens and citizens, and do not dare to disregard ours and their will. It's hard to stop anyone in this way. In the Slovenian People's Party we propose a policy of small but decisive steps. The proposal of the government and the agencies may be one of them, but in itself certainly too small. The proposal for a decision will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group. [[He's not here.]] Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Dear Mr Vice President, Minister! We support the decision in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties. But I wonder if it makes sense to still have the Court of Auditors if no one respects it. However, the President of the Government shall have selective decisions pending the decisions of the Court of Auditors. This is a case-by-case case, many of which have already been, but are not taken into account by the Court of Auditors and not by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, as if this is an urgent evil in the composition of the National Assembly, which is and will continue to be warned and crammed into the sky, as some have taken it lightly. As I said before, this is a specific case of an economic company – Darsa, which has been dealt with several times before on the Commission and has also proposed certain conclusions to the Capital Investment Management Agency. She also proposed the discharge of the supervisory board and the administration of Dars, but nothing happens, even more, they do not respond to warnings, and they are obviously aware that legislation is respected in Slovenia, which is for some, these gentlemen and ladies have been protected in the event of Darsa's responsibilities and assets. Clearly, it is a matter of some new standards that are being set before the Court of Auditors, which, by the constitution of the Ombudsman of Public Finance, does not have the power to sanction, because the matter is designed to respect, through democracy and written laws, the financial culture that is expected to continue to take effect over the years, and that the purpose will be achieved at the level that most Scandinavian and European countries know. But as we can see, things are going in a different direction. This should be addressed by the detection and prosecution authorities, especially now that warnings are coming from all sides, as well as by the National Assembly today, it is possible to identify and respond to such behaviour. It is too small to write a new criminal code, which is supposed to provide for continuous listening to Members and Ministers, as the Information Commissioner warns, but I do not know for what purposes. All I know is that this time, things are clear and mature to prosecute under the existing criminal code. It is too small for the Court of Auditors to comply with and comply with the statutory provisions on the Court of Auditors, since it has already issued a number of calls referred to in paragraphs 11 and 12 of Article 29 to resolve the body which it considers to be serious infringements of compulsory business if they are not taken into account. The Darsa Supervisory Board has even disputed the findings of the Court of Auditors and has rejected their justification for the discharge of the person responsible. Today, we are talking in the National Assembly for the second time about Dars' irresponsible conduct and warnings from the Court of Auditors concerning failures to pay subcontractors and early payments by the main contractor and, last but not least, the payment of compensation to the natural person and the construction of an overpass over the Pluska–Discharge section in the period 2009-2010. It is worth EUR 1.3 million for the compensation of a natural person and the construction of an overpass of EUR 347 000. Of course, all of this is not to the extent of a good master, which Dars is supposed to be, because he has tax money which is strictly intended, but which does not include prizes, picnics and an average high-paid regression. The Court of Auditors also considered that Dars was in serious breach of the obligation to do good business in the procurement of new land valuations, which was supposed to serve for the purpose of concluding a new agreement with Autotransport Kovacic, since the company’s management had ordered new valuations without having to make a request for any damage to Kovačič’s autotransport without causing additional costs at all. With regard to the valuation of land, the Court of Auditors has informed five people, including the signatory to the agreement on the co-financing of the overpass. The Court of Auditors has done its work correctly, but, as we can see, the people concerned are strongly anchored in their positions, of course with the support of political boats, which should also assume part of the responsibility for irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the SLS Chamber Club, sorry, LDS. Excuse me, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Because it wasn't sloppy, you can forgive yourself. As far as this proposal for a decision is concerned, it belongs to that spectrum, which is called "we treat the rude one indecently". After all, many times in the National Assembly we have raised questions that do not belong to the work of the National Assembly. It would be wrong for the National Assembly to resolve and take measures on a case-by-case basis, on behalf of those who do not have them in its mission. This is a typical doing of this kind. We all get to know each other on the roads, on the too expensive roads, and we all get to know each other at all, and we'd all talk about it. Fortunately, in this country, different authorities are set up to deal with different kinds of things. And when it comes to respecting the Court of Auditors' decision, there is no doubt. The decision is here, the post-revision report has been prepared, also dealt with, some of the requirements have not been met, meaning that the procedure must continue where it belongs. Not to the National Assembly, but to the Supervisory Board, to the Capital Investment Management Agency and also to the Government. That's where these things have to be resolved. It is not possible to agree that at any time, as soon as, I don’t know, someone will overpay something or someone will bribe or otherwise, we will convene a meeting of the National Assembly and discuss things here that do not fall within our jurisdiction. The National Assembly is set to adopt legislation, political orientations, resolutions, policies in specific areas and so on. Certainly not for specific management of specific matters. Therefore, we do not intend to support this proposal for a decision. I am not talking about the fact that it does not call for the relevant authorities to respond and do what needs to be done. Whether or not they will resolve Dars’ leadership is a completely different issue that I would not judge. For, as it is said, therefore are called, authorized others, and must do so. I do not know if the measures are proportionate, those proposed by the Court of Auditors with the weight of the offence and so on. As in the previous paragraph, we did not ask much about whether the Constitutional Court is the one who has the right to decide whether or not to comply with certain decisions with the Constitution. Because it's absolutely responsible for that. It is also true in this case that they are responsible for the supervision and must act by those to whom this applies in particular. As far as the issues concerning the specific section of the motorway are concerned, I believe that this is not a final discussion. There are still many outstanding issues, and the Transport Committee has met on this subject. There is still likely to be something that will follow as a final report, not least the whole thing is not even built with a connecting road and similar things. The question of how much more will be involved in the future and how many things will be encouraged by the replacement of performers and similar things. It is up to us to monitor the implementation of the motorway programme as mandated by law and, secondly, to ensure that those authorities which need to carry out it operationally do so, in accordance with legislation, in accordance with the principles of a good master. Overseers and those who look under their fingertips, of course, do this as conscientiously as possible, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and that is what needs to be said, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	Dear Mr Vice President, dear colleague and colleague! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support this decision. It will support it simply because it is not long ago when we heard that the highway cross in Slovenia is far too expensive and that at least a third of the money was spent. All this money, all these credits, all this will have to be paid someday, and the National Assembly has provided guarantees for Dars' loans and the Court's decision concerning the construction of this section of the highway cross shows that something is wrong in the management of Dars' assets and the construction of the highway. It's about time someone was somehow responsible for it. For so far, despite the known complications in auctions, in annexes, in huge irritations, such as the Golovec tunnel, which was last more than three times as expensive as the planned sum, with modest inflation, no one could explain exactly where the money flowed and how it was used. It is time to take these things seriously enough, and the Court of Auditors has, according to our understanding that business does not run as it should, and has proposed appropriate measures of consequence. Even if the current administration of Darsa had not been directly involved in this story, it would have been right for her to step down because the Court of Auditors found that this administration of Darsa is operating years ago and, of course, today and in advance does not work so as to build roads at an acceptable price. And here, in fact, is the basis of our support for the decision. Appropriate sequences should be drawn. In the previous government, for example, the proposal of the Court of Auditors for the discharge of a minister has not been implemented. In this government, a new practice has begun in the request for the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. We were convinced that it would serve as a principle that those who had forgotten their obligations must respond in one way or another, including by disposing of them or withdrawing them themselves, and then the Court of Auditors’ decision demanding consistency on Dars did not happen again. We disagree, we want someone to be responsible for what's going on there. There is no doubt that there was a silent overpass and that the cost on this part of the highway far too expensive for the one who has a parking lot there was specially built over the highway, although this is only a hundred meters away from what everyone else is driving through, which is by the nature of the thing unreasonable, unnecessary not to say money scattering. And again, it's the National Assembly who's supposed to bail out the credits to keep the highways moving. My voice until the consequences of Darsa's administration remain there until someone is resolved or his assets, when it comes to the supervisory council, are responsible for such irregularities, but there will be no more in this National Assembly, no matter how long this mandate will last. I believe that respect for the Court of Auditors' decisions is our obligation, including that of the Government and the Minister of Staff, and in this sense I believe that the decision adopted by the Committee is one that we can support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Wednesday, 22 June 2011, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item — Defence of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Audit Society for the Audit of Accounting Statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 and 2010. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a member of the Commission to Mr Rad Likar for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the Staff of the National Assembly responsible for the supervision of the budget and other public finances is obliged to propose to the National Assembly a decision on who will revise the final accounts of the Court of Auditors. At its 29th meeting, on 7 April 2011, the Commission adopted a decision authorising the Secretary-General to carry out all the necessary procedures under the Public Procurement Act to select an audit firm for the audit of the Court's accounts for 2009 and 2010. The services of the National Assembly then carried out the necessary procedures and submitted an invitation to tender to the audit companies. The invitation stated that the only criterion for selecting the most favourable bidder is the lowest price. The Secretary-General shall be 23. 5. In 2011 she sent a letter sending three tenders for the subsequent procedure, which arrived at the invitation to tender. The most favourable offer was that sent by KPMG Slovenia, d.o.o., which is why the Commission for Public Finance Supervision is at its 32nd meeting. 5. In 2011 it adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that it appoint this company to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2009 and 2010. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision after consideration of this point: "To revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 and 2010 the audit company KPMG Slovenia, d. o. o., Ljubljana, Železna cesta 8A is selected." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Your Honor! There was no debate on the proposal for a decision on the Commission, although something should be said about it. The implementation of the procedure for this choice will be in the eyes. If we used conspiracy theory, we'd say it was a deal or a corruption. I hope that's not the case and that it's really just the inconsistencies or the "slamparium" of the responsible people. By the way, the selection criterion was the lowest price. About quality, hands, staff, references and experiences, not a word. Thus, competition between initiators is determined only by price and not by quality of knowledge. You could say that even if you don't know anything, you're cheap. It is a pity that we do not use this, for example, in the legal services that lawyers perform for the country; they are generally expensive and not too good. We could at least take cheaper, even if they're not good. Your Honor, that's not how it works. He can't and can't audit accounts by someone who's cheap. The best house, impartial, with all the competence of knowledge and authority, perhaps at a higher price, must be audited by the Court of Auditors of our country. There must be no doubt in the shadow of the audit of the Supreme Auditor of public money. We therefore propose that the Secretary-General be more consistent in the future, more careful and take more time to think and make decisions. The call for proposals should also be made in such a way as to meet the highest standards in all respects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Wednesday, 22 June, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, which is questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we are continuing our meeting. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 30 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by the opposition member and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Minister or Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this point, the following ministers today apologized: Minister of Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar, Minister of State without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Boštanj Žekš, Minister without a Resource responsible for development and European affairs, mag. Mitja Gaspari and Minister of the Environment Dr. Roko Žarnic. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will first be asked by Jakob Preseknik of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. President of the Government! The Coalition, even though it would endure the moment as it is, is already clear to everyone that it will not, has been able to unify itself in the majority during its rule only on ideological themes and proposals for solutions that have only cosmetic significance. In the case of proposals for which universal Slovenia considers them necessary and necessary, the coalition is falling apart and falling apart through all the seams. We are in an unenviable situation that requires decisive and, above all, effective action. The desire and will to rule is one thing, but the real situation is obviously something completely different. We believe that, in this situation, it should be decided primarily with responsibility and rationality. This is, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, only the early decision to allow voters and voters to choose a new credible and credible government, which will not only be willing but also be able to bring out the country from day to day a larger both economic and social political crisis. I'm interested, Mr. President, in this respect: How do you represent the rule or continuation of the work of your government, which is not really any more, in the event of recent events that take on the last credibility of your government and yourself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	It's not a nice question, but it's in place. So my answer will be as honest as it is in my power. First of all, that no one in this high assembly will remain unresponsible, I will perform this duty as long as I have your confidence, which is a formal and substantive condition, and as long as I am confident that I am doing this work in the interests of most of our citizens and citizens. Of course, what's good, what's right, what's early enough and what's too late, we can split up, and that's a matter of democratic debate. However, unlike you, Mr Member, I would say that the period behind us, that we may leave in the second half of the answer time for the period ahead, many things have been done that have led Slovenia, a respected Member, today in the economic recovery phase, to have a 2% economic growth rate, the fall in unemployment rates gives rise to confidence that, in the context of relatively favourable international conditions, while increasing export demand, they could continue with both key trends, i.e. the rise in economic growth, the fall in unemployment rates and the fiscal consolidation. This one seems to be the hardest of all three nuts. Regrettably, despite the government's adoption of the pension reform and the adoption of the pension reform by this High Council, this fell to the referendum, as did many other reform measures. Mr. Ambassador, one point. Because of the diagnosis and not because of the government's defence, which I have the honour to lead, it is not a problem of the government's reform capacity and, allow me, not even the reformable ability of this high house. That's the one who showed it. The referendums were referendums on passed laws. But they were mostly rejected. The government is therefore reformably capable, and most in the National Assembly are reformable. The problem that we will soon find, too soon, is that we have a system with which everyone who does not agree to change things, Mr Member, with whom our people are not satisfied, whether he or his group wants to remain as they are, because they bring him a privileged position, can by referendum prevent the implementation of this law. Many of you feel that the unpopularity of the government is to some extent wrong. Not only do we have experience with previous governments that have been popular and have lost their referendums, but the fact is that the referendum is usually an opportunity for those who say they disagree with something. And that's legitimate. I don't deny the legitimacy of people's will at all. This and future governments, in particular this and future National Assembly, will have to consider solutions that will make it impossible for the country to be reformably incapacitated. It's the government. And as long as, Mr Member, this High Council is also doing its work. [[..]] He has adopted the pension reform and I would like to thank your parliamentary group for giving decisive votes for the qualified majority, but people have made a different decision. I am very sorry that they do, but I must respect their will. I think we'll all regret it in time. However, laws that no one would have said that pension reform had fallen because it was not consistent with the social partners did, but the law on the prevention of black work, which was in line with the social partners, had also fallen to the referendum. We can see, therefore, that there is no very clear support for why people in the referendum vote against changes in the situation of things they are not pleased with. Therefore, I would like to say to you that my government, a minority government, if it receives support in the National Assembly, intends to carry out by the end of this mandate all that is necessary for the continuation of economic recovery, for the continuation of the decline in the rate of unemployment, for the acceleration of our exports to markets where we have not been present so far, and for all the necessary measures. If we don't all come together to get to the early elections where people will choose an alternative.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. Nevertheless, I do have some thoughts that I would like to give you and that I expect an answer to. I'm sure it's an escape from, if I may say in a parable, sinking boats, which are an instinctive and human response, but nothing reduces the responsibilities of coalition parties who try to save their skin in this way. And these are coalition parties who were entrusted by voters and voters at the beginning of their term of office to lead the country. Later on, changing attitudes and running away from responsibility do not save this and do not save responsibility. Even in the Slovenian People's Party, as an opposition party, we have accepted part of the responsibility, you just mentioned one of them, with the support of the necessary reforms, on your shoulders, and that is why we take less responsibility for the situation. Some of you are more responsible, some of you are most responsible, and some of us are slightly less responsible. What is your comment, Mr President, on this part of the question, especially in the light of the concern for the period ahead, as you said in the first part of your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	In particular, my closer associates on this side of this high house, perhaps even some of the others, know that as a captain I never withdraw from a ship that might sink. As much as possible, if I were to try as hard as possible, with the cooperation of my colleagues, to lead the ark through the most stormy waters. And let me surprise you with a statement, I think if there are no new storms, this time from the east, then we have a more peaceful sea. And there's no reason to see more holes in the boat than there is. They are, and through them still penetrates the water, but they are now manageable. Our ark is no longer saved. I think these holes are manageable for us to shut them down, this boat, not only keep it on the surface, but also arrange it as our new home for the coming decade or more. If I hadn't had this vision, Mr President, I wouldn't have done this nice but hard work, along with my colleagues and colleagues. I say that through the storm, which was very exhausting for all of us, first for our people, then for you, and not least for us, we have translated it so that we have preserved the ark above the surface and unharmed enough that we can now transform it into a modern vessel for the future ahead of us. As we say, if there is no new storm, this time from the east of our old continent, we can expect calmer waters. I think it will be one of the questions that will later concern these kinds of futures. So let me answer that. I am behind the wheel of the government boat, which is on the surface, which is heading towards the convoy of those countries in the eurozone and the European Union, which are going to a safe port. Although we are smaller than boats, we are not lagging behind much, our job is to safely take all passengers across this troubled sea. As long as I think that, together with my colleagues and my colleagues, this is a success, I will be willing to accept this responsibility to the end. I hope that this High Council does not wish to have someone as the Prime Minister of the Government who would be indecisive and not someone who would not be able to listen to compromises. In particular, as I lead the minority government, I am so much more dependent on your support, not on the government, but on concrete projects. I'm going to make a very sincere effort to do that. I will say this in particular to this part of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bogdan Barovic of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, ministerial assembly, Mr President of the Government! Your government, which you are chairing, Mr President, has agreed to close chapter 13 of Croatia and also to agree to close chapter 23, this is for justice. According to the Slovenian National Party, this was the act of the Government and the decision of the ruling coalition to beat the reputation of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, the violation of its own legislation and the issue of the Slovenian people. I'm on the ground. Firstly, you have agreed to freeze SOPS, which is an international act. Secondly, instead of a clear message that respect for an agreed one of the pillars of Union policy, this government has made Croatia aware that SOPS does not need to be respected. Thirdly, the government has agreed with this compromise on something that it already has, I stress, for something that it already has, namely, to allow Slovenian fishermen to sail to Vrsar. That's what we already have. You agreed to do it by taking that right away from the fishermen. And for three times two million, three years, Europe will give $2 million to the fishermen, but to the country. While Europe will give 1.3, the country, which is obviously very rich, will give 25% of the budget. The worst part is that this government and this government coalition have violated, a hundred percent provenable, existing domestic legislation. Let me remind you once again that SOPS, with its content from A to Z, is a valid part of the rule of law and the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Prime Minister, do you think it is right for you personally – I told you about the government, I did not talk about you – that we left Slovenian fishermen alone? Do you think it is right, fair to Slovenia, citizens and citizens, to deal with matters in quiet rooms, while exactly a month before that we learn the same content from the Croatian agricultural minister? Mr President, were you personally in favour of the Government agreeing to the closure of these two chapters?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	The answer to the last question is yes, and it is with great pleasure that this meant more than I suggested at the beginning of the negotiations on chapter 13 that it could be achieved for our interests. Another time. I do not wish to give advice to the honourable Member, but I would like to say the following. If he believes that the President of the Government has issued vital national interests, I expect him to make a constitutional indictment. I think it's the right step for someone to do something so embarrassing. I'm not, but if you're sure of that, don't hesitate to take that step. Before you do that, just listen, why don't you? The Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on Border Transport and Cooperation, SOPS, is an international agreement in force, and this fact is not changed by the endorsement of the EU Common Position and the 13th Chapter in any way. All obligations arising from the agreement for both Parties shall remain unchanged. SOPS was an international treaty signed by the Governments of Slovenia and Croatia in 1997. It came into force in September 2001 and, honourable Member, except in 2002, I do not believe that until 2004, in the fishing work concerning sea fishing, it has not been carried out, despite the long-standing efforts of all Slovenian governments since the agreement's entry into force. Have I made myself clear about this emphasis? Except for two years, this part of the agreement has not been implemented at all, despite our efforts, each of the governments. Each of the Parties may, as provided for in one of the principles, terminate this Agreement. I think that's Article 60. This provides that the Agreement shall be concluded for three years and shall be extended in silence with each subsequent year if none of the Parties terminate it in writing on the diplomatic path six months before its expiry. This was also why Slovenia’s objective in the framework of the Croatian accession negotiations was important in order to achieve a sustainable implementation of the SOPS fishing work, which was in line with European legislation and would not be unilaterally repealed. I estimate that this very important strategic objective has been achieved. The closure of Chapter 13, i.e. fisheries, for Croatia was in line with Slovenian fishermen. More information on this can be explained later, if he has the opportunity, by Mr Židan, Minister for Agriculture. Mag. The Jew met with fishermen, with representatives of various technologies, because of the confidentiality of the topic at first only informally 20. This year's 5th. The debate was about possible major solutions, and the final solutions to accession negotiations were presented to fishermen at a meeting early last month. The fishermen responded by informing me of this on the same evening, both times being extremely positive. The greatest concern expressed by Slovenian fishermen at the time of the negotiations was that if historical fishing rights were to be exercised before the border was established, adequate control would not be ensured, and thus not respect for the stricter fishing rules in force in Slovenian waters, such as the prohibition on the use of the fishing gear of the ripper, which would lead to the destruction of our floating and therefore particularly sensitive sea, and thus, of course, fishing. Consistency with national fishing rules and proper control of the activities of Croatian fishing vessels in Slovenian waters will only be possible in accordance with the applicable European legislation once the maritime boundary between Slovenia and Croatia has been established. Slovenian fishermen believe that this solution is most optimal and therefore agree with it. I am not saying that Slovenian fishermen, like other social partners, are those who finally say what is right and what is wrong and have the responsibility and the right to be fully tried. But in this case, more exceptional than the rule, our fundamental social partner agrees with the Government on this issue. May I say in the end that I see no reason to think about such difficult words as treason and, of course, not a constitutional charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr Barovic? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	I'll be more specific. I can't be more specific. If I understand correctly, do you hope to claim that the SOPS, an international legal act, has not been frozen with this agreement? Another time. If you say or think he hasn't been, then why 1.3 million three years from Europe? Third time. Once again, I'm asking you a very clear question. The Slovenian fishermen agree? And the last. The inhabitants of the area of Secovlje in the size of 113 hectares, when in 1992 and 1993 she falsified the land book and the cadastral catalogue of the Republic of Slovenia Croatia, is it evident whether these inhabitants of this part of the cadastral municipality agree? They can't be any clearer. And let me be clear, I don't care. I have nothing against Croatia. If it works honestly, it will enter the EU, not while I am sitting here, at the expense of Slovenia and the Slovenian people. I'll ask the fishermen myself, I know a few. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	I have asked the Secretary-General to conduct a short bilateral with the Minister of Agriculture to ensure that your last question is not comprehensible or not relevant for the subject of our conversation. We guarantee, once again, by the Government, that fishermen are satisfied that they have been consulted twice. Once again, as I would say, I would like to show you that fisheries is one of the policies common at EU level, so this was not a bilateral issue between Slovenia and Croatia, but Slovenia was part of a European policy. There's one thing I have to say here. I hope I won't say not too much, not too little, but frankly, at first I said that we got out of these conversations more than I had hoped as a negotiator at the beginning to imagine. This was almost threatened because those who considered that Slovenia was in one privileged position challenged this in the European Commission's legal service. The legal service even shared an opinion with them, but then, in the face of many of the circumstances that I will not mention here, the following. Croatia has fulfilled its part of its obligation. Slovenia has fulfilled its part of its obligation. The European Union has been assured that this is still within some legal framework permitted by the common fisheries policy. Our interests, honourable Member, are secure. Allow me before you have a speech behind me, where you will repeat that you are not satisfied with the answer to the question, I will also answer what I have not been asked, but perhaps now is the right time to say it. I do not know whether the European Council will take a decision in two days to invite the Croatian Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, to the meeting the following day to officially announce that a decision has been taken at the level of heads of government and states, that Croatia will become the 28th country of the European Union as of 1 July 2013. Since I am only one of the members of the Council, I cannot speak on our common behalf, but I can express my great desire and hope that this will happen. Croatia has proved to be a good partner in negotiations with Slovenia and wants to negotiate in good faith. We've developed friendships, universally good relationships. Economic progress is being made in high-potential trade. Our people don't worry can think about their permission and they can think about us. I think we have achieved something that makes us both deserve one sense of joy and satisfaction if this happens in two days.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much. A question for the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Joško Godec of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues, fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Prior to the referendum troika, a large number of speeches about the intervention law, which will go into pensions, salaries of public servants and social transfers, were presented in connection with the reform law on pension and disability insurance and its possible rejection. Mr President, even on the day of the referendum, you announced the necessity of such an intervention law, which would have weakened people for several years with the previously frozen income. They were to bind even their own or governmental confidant to this law. In the following days of the referendum, a balance was included in the consideration of the possibility of saving in addition to the intervention law, and last but not least there was only a budget rebalance and the possibility of tying a confidant to it. The set of projected austerity measures has therefore changed from day to day, on the basis of a meeting of the Government on 9. 6. It has narrowed down to intervention law in terms of prohibiting new employment in the public sector and saving in the budget on the basis of expenditure on goods and services and investment. Can a clear presentation of concrete austerity measures be made so that there will be no more confusion and unnecessary assumptions, what can tomorrow bring us, especially with regard to the rights of pensioners and recipients of social transfers? Mr President, I am also interested in: Will or what will happen to the pension law?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Mr President, honourable Member. I think in time, as I said, most people will regret that we missed the opportunity to adopt a pension law, a reform. I know that people, and this surprises me, are still angry with the government and the parliament today that they were obliged to decide on this. Not least they're right. You've been given a mandate, you've given us a mandate to each of us to do our job. I see no reason to ask people every time for their opinion. If so, then we must count on them to take into account many things, not just the adequacy or inadequacy of pension reform. And that's how they decided. Look what's going on in London today. The public sector is protesting that the government has announced a reform of retirement for 66 years. And that's how it's all over Europe. No extension of working time has been adopted with open deadlines. As pension reform is at the forefront of the Euro Pact as it is, I assumed that the fall of pension reform could lead to the financial market of the euro area, the European Union and the international response being sharper than it is. Although he has lowered the credit rating for banks, he has not reduced the rating for the country, although this trend is declining, namely – now listen to me – that he has not done so because the fall of pension reform, for the first time, did not bring about a political crisis, secondly because the government has immediately announced a dialogue with trade unions and social partners on the continuation of the debate on pension reform, and thirdly, to assure the government that it will propose a different way of ensuring public financial consolidation. That there will be no misunderstandings, ladies and gentlemen, public financial consolidation is one of the main aspirations of the government until our mandate expires. I hope you are not disappointed, honourable Member, because the Government will not go further into the rights of pensioners by means of intervention law. No, of course not. And I don't want that either, and as long as you can listen to me for a moment? [[...]] As long as money remains as cheap in foreign markets as it is now for Slovenia, such radical measures will not be necessary until then. But I'm saying, as long as the money stays as available and cheap as it is now. If money were to become more expensive, it would mean that the ratings would fall, then it would mean that we will all, of course, have to bear the burden of such a situation on the social situation of the right and social status of the people. For the time being, honourable Member, Slovenia is not in this situation. But if anyone wants to, we can make sure that they do. But I hope no one wants the Prime Minister to be right when he says that there is a worse scenario than who he is. The worst scenario is not because of our actions. Look, about the pension reform. The social partners gave a green light at Friday's Health Reform Consultation and the Labour Relations Act. The Minister of Health is expected to present a blueprint or more after a consultation at the College of the Government next week, possibly a draft of two laws dealing with health reform. The Minister of Labour will prepare the thesis and the starting points for amending the Labour Relations Act. Like the previous two, we will put it into discussion with the social partners. So what do I want to tell you? We are by the fact that after the fall of the pension reform, which has not been so reflected in the Portuguese elections that night and because of the Greek crisis in the financial circles, and because the government has remained and is firmly determined that in different ways, this is, in particular, a rebalance, honourable Member, the rebalance is therefore the instrument by which we will try to achieve fiscal consolidation, it has held back for once the same high assessment and accessibility to financial resources. We do not want to and should not continue to be in debt to maintain the same standard, if we do not raise our productivity at the same time, so the Government is aware of what needs to be done, with these proposals will come before the National Assembly, there will be many things in the balance that you will not be satisfied with, I assure you, but the Government will try to explain, in its power, why they are also inevitable in the light of the fall of pension reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Dusan Kumer of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has faced important development challenges and decisions in recent years on the possibility of further economic development and recovery, while maintaining social stability. Some indicators already point to the gradual economic recovery of Slovenia, although without some structural changes it is probably not realistic to expect the medium- and long-term economic development of our country. On the other hand, the situation of Slovenia also depends significantly on measures within the European Union and the wider world situation. At present, we are witnessing nothing encouraging to international circumstances at European level, especially with regard to the next instalment of financial assistance to Greece, and also with regard to the other consequences of the debt crisis, which may or may not already appear in some other Member States of the European Union. Many other issues are raised in this light, in particular how to help the euro area countries in difficulty and to maintain a stable common currency and, on the other hand, to prevent a possible new period of recession, which is already being guessed, in the euro area or in the European Union. This is why a clear response is needed in this place in the National Assembly for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and what views Slovenia will also have in this regard at the upcoming Council of the European Union, which will be the end of this week. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. President of the Government: How do you see the further development of Slovenia in view of the economic, social and security conditions both at home and in the world?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	The decision of Reagan's administration, which continued under democratic rule in the US, led to a decision to deregulation of the financial industry when one of the major Lehman Brothers banking groups announced its bankruptcy on 15 September 2008. The US government was not prepared to invest EUR 50 billion at the time to cover the moral gambling of the main financiers of this banking group, which played with derivatives in the global market. However, as this fall on the New York Stock Exchange, and later on on all other markets, soon led to a chain collapse of financial markets, particularly banking markets, America later, under the Bush Administration, with the approval of the new elected president, decided to intervene at a rate of EUR 700 billion in the banking system. This was just a glimpse into the sea of fiscal stimuli and other ways to help the banking system in the world that the recession ended at the end of 2009. At this point, it seems that the international community has not been able to agree on instruments for more serious control of the banking system, which, in my view, continues to be a dangerous moral gamble and a game of saving people around the world, particularly in modern times. That is true, the crisis in Europe shows, where three countries, Greece, Ireland and Portugal, do not forget Iceland in 2008, which is not an EU member, went into debt crisis. Mr Member, if I spoke earlier about the recession coming from the West in 2008 and showing all its sharp teeth in 2009, now, of course, fear in the currency area of which Slovenia is also part of is in the eurozone, that things and storm clouds may move from the east, from Greece. First of all, I would like to convey to the Greek government and to the Greek people the expressions of our support for their reform measures. These are conditions for European solidarity to help Greece get out of the debt crisis. For example, Slovenia has about 40% of debt in GDP, Greece 160. Slovenia has relatively favourable access and relatively cheap money for possible indebtedness. Greece is thus dependent on other countries, including Slovenia. I, as a non-financial expert, can tell you how I see things, depending on what happens in Athens today, whether the Greek Prime Minister will have a confidant or not. It is even more important whether he will receive Parliament's support for reform measures. If he doesn't get them by 3 July, then I guess that's what Minister Križanič will say in more detail, and the Presidents of the governments, before that, the Presidents or members of Ecofin, will not grant assistance to Greece. And Greece, what I predicted three weeks ago, might be Lehman Brothers Eurocone. What consistency this would have for the whole of the euro area, even for us, I cannot predict today. I'm sure there's nothing good about it. Maybe a new economic recession. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot influence what might happen to Greece. We can influence what happens to Slovenia. And in Slovenia, I call on everyone who thinks in the long term, let us think about what we can do to maintain, as far as possible, economic growth, take care of the establishment and opening of new jobs, make sure that we do not go beyond a reasonable limit and make sure that we are together with countries like Germany and France in the same currency group, whatever happens, at almost any cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Mr President, perhaps another additional question, given what you have just said, because it is obvious that this trend in the debt crisis in some European Union countries will deepen further. And given the expected, as you said, some new recession of the exit, I am specifically asking you about the situation of Slovenia within these problems. What exactly is your expectation at the European Council meeting on 23 and 24 June 2011?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	I don't know if you saw yesterday's press conference of the age of European politics and also the head of the euro zone Jean-Claude Juncker. Journalists asked him what would happen if Greece did not take austerity measures. And he said, "Greece must take austerity measures. If not, if not..." And he's done. I don't think my colleague Juncker could have been more eloquent. Everything now depends on what will happen in the coming days until 3 July in Greece if Greece is able to take extremely sharp and, of course, unpleasant measures for people, which will at least give rise to some hope that this debt is manageable and that money will be repaid. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Slovenians have given to the Greeks to help them, we expect to get back because it is the money of our taxpayers. If I, as President of the Government, the Finance Minister and my colleagues, believe that we are giving money for something we will not get back, we have neither the moral nor the political responsibility to do so. On the other hand, I must say, honourable Member, that we are members of the euro area and that we are dependent on consensus within the eurozone. That is why, of course, we will be listening by July 3rd and expressing our views on what it would be good to do in both cases. I'm saying they're both bad solutions. I think one is less bad, but in the long run, in the event that Greece does not take austerity measures, the other is just prolonging the agony and it is not saving it. And then some processes will start, no offense, some of you were at that meeting I called last fall to remind you that something is going on in Europe that is not normal, and that we need to be prepared for a lot of things. We're in this situation now. We don't know how to measure the volume of problems that are ahead of us, but there's no point in losing energy for what we can't influence. We must focus, Mr Member, on the focus. Our focus is to stay within the currency group, where Germany and France are. Why Germany and France? Not only because they are the engine of development, not only because we are trading with them most, including in value, culturally, we know in every sense that if Germany does not allow anything, it is because it has an unstable currency; we can rely on that, it is in the character of the German nation. And that is also, I think, in the character of the Slovenian nation. While the money spent must be secured, it is the mentality of both the German and our people. Finally, Mr President, allow me, on the edge of the question raised by the honourable Member, to express my last gratitude as President of the Government on this team to the three ministers who have remained in the government so far, the Minister of Culture, for the economy, for the public administration. They worked extremely hard and enjoyed our full admiration, so I would like to say my best to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 27th and 28th meetings of the assembly. Minister of Health Dorian Marusic will answer the question of mag. Stefan Tisla in relation to health infrastructure. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Your Honor! First of all, I apologize for my absence. Of course, I'll give you an explanation. I regret that this is only oral, but I would rather send you in writing, because we would see how many projects we have completed at this time. Very quickly, because some other Members will listen. You probably know this is about investments in facilities and equipment. All are included in the national development programme and I can argue that from the mandate of this government, from December 2008 to today, until the end of 2010, we have completed 27 projects, but yesterday some additional projects. In 2011, we handed over six additional facilities to the operators. What problems have we encountered during this period, and why are investments in health equipment and facilities not as effective and effective as we would have imagined? Perhaps one of the problems in recent years has been poorly prepared or lacking project documentation. It is also reliably linked to limited financial resources and known procurement problems. Maybe very quickly what was completed in 2009. From the construction works we completed the Neurological Clinic at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana and the TRT facility at the Oncology Institute. Then 13 different investments in equipment may not be listed here, but there is virtually no contractor at the secondary level. You know, as founders, we only invest in a secondary level, so there is no contractor in Slovenia who would not have received such or other equipment. Also in 2010, where the investment was completed, reconstruction at Psychiatric Hospital Ormož, Idrija Psychiatric Hospital, Fire Management Trbovlje. It is my great pleasure that as minister I was given to open the first nursing hospital in Slovenia, this is Negoval Hospital Ljubljana, that we have adapted the laboratory in Trbovlje Hospital and that the facility at the otornolaringology clinic is completed. In addition to the six I mentioned, six different investments in different equipment. This year, we have planned 23 different buildings, again from construction sites that have started and we have already selected contractors: Brežice General Hospital, just yesterday we built a foundation stone, last week Hospital Sežana, also Hospital Begunje and Institute for the Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons. These are the main construction and craft facilities where we have already launched the call and where the contractor is already known and projects are expected to be completed in the coming year. At the same time, there are 6 completed projects and committed to equipment operators. Perhaps the most prominent linear accelerator, which we have already performed after the visit of the President of the Government and also with the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance. In the past, there have been many criticisms about investment. The views of the team at the Ministry of Health are more or less based on the completion of the facilities started in the future, so it is necessary to speed up the completion of the facilities that have been launched as soon as possible and to accelerate those facilities or investments that have been planned in the national programme. Since the Health Investments Act is the one that determines how funds are collected, i.e. through the budget and through the funds collected by operators from depreciation, and through funds which, if not used, are collected in accordance, we have decided that, in order to complete the projects, we have already passed through the Government the Investment Act, where we are extending the deadline precisely to enable the start of the projects to be completed. In doing so, let me also present my view of the future and also the steps we have taken. I am convinced that in Slovenia this leap must be made to make investments with operators, that they are autonomous in the implementation of investments. As Minister, I have already launched an international call to assess the needs of Slovenian life by 2020 on a secondary network and on a standardised type hospital. The call is under way and I hope that it will be concluded in a short time that we will have a picture of the needs in the Slovenian space. It is somehow an estimate of 7 hospitals by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Tiesel? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I also received a written reply, so I studied it thoroughly. Together, we are aware of all these problems in these investments, which are not yet saved, such as the Oncology Institute, the Paediatric Clinic and so on. There have been problems in these areas. We are more concerned about the current state of affairs, according to the state budget and the envisaged balance, which will also greatly detract from the health sector. Although we know that the emergency centres that were planned in the past are already a little late, so there are no plans from last year in Ljubljana and Maribor, I am interested: What's it gonna be like with these emergency centers? Can we draw on these grants to co-finance the emergency centres? And that's exactly what you mentioned. We've tracked this program of yours for the construction of new regional hospitals, five to seven, which are supposed to be being built on a new field completely again. How are these projects? I'm asking you to complete your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you for this addition. I can say that if the rebalancing cuts as sharply as it is set that in 2011 we will be able to continue and complete those projects we planned in 2011, probably even in the first half of 2012. It's hard to tell for a later period. Therefore, changes in the way construction works are invested and carried out and investments in health equipment will be needed. As I have said, I am in favour of moving this part from the Ministry to the level of operators, so that the Ministry plays only the role of supervisor and one that guides investment activities. Last but not least, the investment group at the Ministry is 5 people. I would also like to introduce this approach in the area of setting up emergency centres. It may really be estimated that he is late, but the funds have been recognised recently. We at the Ministry have set up this very way to appoint a project unit that will seek to set up a national network of emergency centres, not emergency centres, at the wishes of some local powers. So it's a national network of emergency centers. The project also includes an emergency centre at the Maribor University Clinical Centre, while the construction project of the emergency centre at the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre is related to budgetary resources. It is the lesson of the last ten years — the approach to investment that leads to a different approach. In fact, most of the investments were designed to rebuild old facilities that were energy-efficient and that were not in line with the patient treatment processes, so I set up a project, as I say, to put out an international call for proposals based on needs assessments in 2015, 2016, 2017 for citizens by service at secondary level of a typical regional hospital. Our estimate is that there would be up to 7, even some harsh estimates exist for this. In any event, the result or the product of an international invitation to tender for this task must first be obtained and then this process should be continued. I am sure that this process and approach is the right one. Last but not least, most European countries are making renovations by leaving and building new hospitals that are more responsive to construction processes. Of course, old facilities are used either for reorganized hospitals, such as hospitals for care, extended hospital treatment, perhaps for social security institutions or for other purposes for public good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič will answer the question of Zvonko Černač regarding financial assistance to the euro group countries. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear congregation, allow me to read what we have prepared for this answer. Both the loans to the Hellenic Republic in the intergovernmental framework of the euro area Member States and the European Instrument for Financial Stability of the EFSF, i.e. the European Financial Stability Facility, are based on the principle of solidarity and the principle of proportionality of the club countries having the euro as their currency. Member States of the euro area in the loan or mechanism concerned shall participate proportionately in accordance with the share of the payment of capital by the national central banks of the euro area Member States to the European Central Bank, taking into account only the shares of the euro area Member States. The Republic of Slovenia has thus assumed the responsibility of membership in the euro area. Let me add that the euro area is in competition with other developed areas in essence the most stable, the most export-propulsive and growth is not as rapid as in the developing countries that are still in the 'catching up' process, but it is significantly more successful, more stable, more export-oriented and with less public debt than Japan, the USA or Australia. So we're successful. The problems that we have, however, must be solved in solidarity and together, we cannot pass on to just one or leave the matter to fall apart. For Slovenia, membership in the euro area has certainly facilitated this crisis during the period of crisis, and it is understandable that this membership requires responsibility and solidarity with countries in difficulty, as we are defending the euro as a common currency. The possible break of the euro would unquestionably have a strong negative impact on all its members, especially on small and highly open economies such as Slovenia. Some econometric studies show that the collapse of the euro system and thus the reduction of the so-called liberalisation effect in the exchange of both goods, goods and production factors would affect approximately 20% of the fall of the gross domestic product. I would also like to add that the consequences of the economic and financial crisis are also reflected in the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia. The decline in economic activity has led to a marked decrease in income on the one hand, and this has also led to a fall in tax rates in 2006, based on estimates that rapid economic growth will continue all the time. On the other hand, there has also been an increase in expenditure due to funds for the unemployed, subsidies and an increase in public expenditure related to the crisis, so-called automatic stabilisers. However, the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia are not comparable in the situation as the public finances of the countries that have gone into the crisis of public finances. It is not to be overlooked, however, that in Slovenia, in the first quarter of this year, export-driven economic recovery continues, the gross domestic product is higher by 2% than last year, in particular the increase in industrial production and processing activities, both above average in terms of the euro group. We have major problems with construction, which we will now try to mitigate with additional measures. However, this sector is foreshadowed and this decline will not be fully eliminated compared to other countries. There are no other measures or alternatives to those mechanisms in the given situation. We will see how the crisis of the new wave of problems that the Greek economy has. It was first due to rumors that part of the debt would have to be written off, then due to the complete withdrawal of the private sector from its willingness to lend, and now we have an in-depth crisis and a decline of confidence also in creditors, countries from the euro area. In order to avoid the establishment of an ad hoc mechanism and to ensure permanent stability of the euro, the euro area Member States have set up a European mechanism for the stability of the euro, which will be established as an intergovernmental organisation in mid-2013 and will replace temporary or current ad hoc mechanisms and in this case will be significantly more professional, faster and more effective to help a country in difficulty. I think that then some problems will be easier to resolve and that any rumors or repetitions will not in any way delay the country's rescue measures, as is now the case in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Robert Hrovat will ask the question of the Minister of Health Dorian Marusic and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, responsible for nutrition and human health in Slovenia! The Coalition Treaty states that Slovenia will receive an independent public institution which will be responsible for security and food in the Republic of Slovenia. There is no such institution in Slovenia right now. Does this mean that the existing competent authorities, which now exercise their powers and tasks in two different departments, should be reorganised? A year ago, we read in the media that part of the competence and inspection from the health department was transferred under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Do these transfers of competences from the field to the resort mean a circular arrangement for ensuring food security in Slovenia, which is buying 70% of food in other Member States of the European Union or importing it from third countries? Since the regime is still not concluded in my opinion, what do you intend to do as district ministers in this area, especially because of the reverberating affair with origins in Germany, I am thinking mainly of the dioxin affair in food of animal origin at the beginning of this year and recently in the field of vegetables, when we have detected in the media that the source of the infection and the cause of death are about 30 people first cucumbers, and then it turns out to be sprouts? How did the Slovenian supervisory services react when the first information on the disputed cucumbers first came from Spain and then from Germany, with the economic consequences that have arisen in many Member States due to the fear of how safe food can be eaten? That's why I'm asking: Do you think that, according to the existing system and organisation of services that I now have in Slovenia, they could react better in the middle of this service’s affair if they were otherwise organised? And then: Does the current food security affairs in Europe have any impact on the envisaged arrangements for the establishment of a common institution? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Please. But I would like to point out that both of you have five minutes together. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much for that question. It's a very short introduction. We always have to start with the size of Slovenia, with the capacities we have in the Slovenian space, and I expose health to all policies more and more times than the Minister of Health, so we need to act intersectorally. We can assess what the transfer and integration of these services meant, but in the case that you described it, it turns out that all the competent services, both those directly or directly within my competence, are the Institute for Health Protection and the Health Inspectorate, together with the Veterinary Administration, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, and in particular the cooperation of both cabinets of ministers, have shown a good willingness and response to the problem you have opened: infections in the European area. Let me take this opportunity to reassure listeners, citizens and citizens about what is happening in the European space. Perhaps not a number, but what is most important is that the issue associated with Escherichia coli infection is dying, and that I can report that until today, with an appropriate delay of two days, there have been no cases in the Slovenian area infected with this bacteria, as far as we need to diagnose or suspect this bacteria. The case at the Slovenian hospital also turned out to be not the strain, and it was also discovered in due time. The Institute for Health Protection and the Health Inspectorate, in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, informed all the relevant places where food is being prepared, i.e. from public health to private, how it should be handled in this case. And we have regularly informed citizens and citizens that personal prevention is the most important. Since the time before, or already during, allowing, this would take advantage of these recommendations, which have been issued today, to repeat and should be taken into account on a daily basis, not only in relation to this infection, i.e. consistent washing of hands with warm water and soap and washing of utensils, appropriate thermal treatment of foods, particularly butter, and the prevention of indirect contact between raw and already prepared foods and appropriate washing of vegetables. If I answer the introductory question, I believe that the approach to pooling cross-sectoral action is saying that the ministries, including the Ministry of the Environment and the rest, will need to be more integrated in the future. It is known that the Ministry of Health or the Health System can provide and care for only about 20% of the health population; everything else is a socially coordinated operation of all other sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Please, Mr. Mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Mr President, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Interestingly, when you observe the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you are actually observing the Ministry of Food. More than half of the workers working in the field of safe food, which is only a good 15% in agriculture. What we need to say is we have two lines of safe food, these are green and red. Green are foods of plant origin, red are of animal origin. We control in fact from the field forward to the consumers. It's already 25. 5. In 2010, I appointed an interdepartmental group to bring together all the institutions, including for rationalisation. This group prepared the professional starting points by January 2011, when they went to a public debate between employees. Why don't we take a step forward at this point? Because right now we know that institutions like these work well. We have had 14 audits by European inspectors in the last two years. They all said two things. The system works effectively and works in accordance with the laws, or in armor, works well. Why isn't there a step forward at this point? Because the European Union's affairs have shown that at European Union level the safe food system is not working in sync and well, it has therefore been decided that when this affair, which is currently taking place through the pathological expansion around it, a revision of the entire 10-year-old system is made at European Union and country level. I even think we'll be a lot of role models, and then we'll probably get a new foundation. Once the new directions are known, we move forward. But if we move forward now, it can happen that we will change institutions every year, and this is probably not good for the work of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you. Do you have a follow-up? Please, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In fact, I highlighted this issue for this very reason because you wrote into the coalition contract that an independent institution would come, but this moment is still not in Slovenia. If we connect all these events in Europe and read titles such as Green Death, Bacteria kills ahead, New Conspiracy and so on, and more and more Indictments and press releases were that the response in Germany by health institutions was poor and that the E. coli bacteria were still underestimated. That's why I'm asking you, Minister of Health: Was the response of German colleagues appropriate? You must have talked at European Union level about these matters. How are we prepared in Slovenia for the outbreak of such a thing as happened in Germany? And this: Is it true that such an infection is also transmitted from human to human, not just through vegetables and the way it has been read in the media lately? And now to the Minister of Agriculture, because I have very little time. Just another very simple question, but I want a very precise and clear answer: What food do we eat in Slovenia? In general, given that at least two thirds of the food comes from imports and only one third is actually produced in Slovenia alone, I wonder if we can trust the current food control services, in particular because of this information, which I said before, that we import significantly more food than we produce at home. I believe that food produced in Slovenia is healthy and safe. On the other hand, I am concerned about all too much of this imports and how these services have been organised, given that these agencies that have been discussed before the elections all this time, have not been included in the coalition contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	In Slovenia we have over-the-average safe food for several reasons. I said the first one – all the audits that have been going through have been extremely well evaluated. Next, in Slovenia we have institutions, we have an institution that controls the red line, this is the Veterinary Administration, and an Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which controls the green line. What is interesting is that, according to the number of samples taken, we are three times the average in the European Union. But what I would just like to say is, of course, I'm always looking for food from my own vicinity for a number of reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	As regards the measures in Germany, at least for the time being there is no known public data on the analysis being carried out and also transmitted. However, I can only say what the Ministers of Health discussed at our meeting, we were aware of the measures taken in Germany and we commended their actions on the fact that they focused on finding their origin. Of course, when the origin of such an infection is known, they can be more effective measures. As far as health institutions are concerned. As the Secretary of State has reported, their response should be appropriate. We can only assess how the responses in the healthcare system have been made in relation to these events and assess them as extremely successful. Last but not least, the case that raised suspicion of this infection in the Slovenian hospital was properly addressed, the patient was welcomed, also sent to the home environment. The material was taken away and later it turned out to be an infection with Escherichia coli, but not this strain that was exposed. Until the source is known, of course, it is difficult to predict how the infection is spreading, so the measures, as I mentioned earlier, are in place and must be widely placed. So the assessment of the event in the last month, month and half is high and relevant institutions have also responded appropriately in the Slovenian space to these events. I wish that the system would never be as tested as I wish for every emergency service, the duty of duty, of course, that we have it, but we do not use it or, if so, then to the least extent possible and effectively. In this case, I can say that the health system has responded appropriately and even detected an infection that was not of that origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask a question from the Minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs, mag. Mitsu Gaspari, who is excused.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Recently, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have been asking more and more questions about the operation of banks in the majority or majority state ownership, which are linked to the granting of credits for the property transformations of many important companies, which eventually brought these companies almost to the brink of survival. Unfortunately, we have not received any smart, important answers, if I may say so, because everyone in turn is declared irresponsible or has done everything in their power. This is also why we have proposed that this subject be addressed by the Committee on Finance, the point is not yet concluded, so that we will continue to discuss it. So far, the state has been pursuing, unfortunately, only those who have received credit. Those who gave credit, no one's ever asked. And it doesn't look like that's gonna change. It is more than obvious that credit has been granted in a beautiful way, beyond the usual practice in banks. This is also evidenced by the latest analysis by the anti-corruption commission, which in one of the banks found more than a thousand cases of deviations from normal practices, which is, after all, horrifying. It is likely that these loans related to property conversion were granted in a similar way. I claim that this tycoon mechanism, as I refer to it, involves networks, policies, banks, individuals, companies, and someone else, who is responsible for a much deeper financial crisis in Slovenia compared to the European Union. I would like to ask the Minister in the light of one of his tasks, this is to monitor the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. I'm interested in his opinion: How and how do the basic development goals of Slovenia and key development priorities to achieve these objectives affect the operation of the two largest Slovenian banks in majority state ownership? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the question of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I am asking the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, about the renewal of the state road Keltika on the relations of Tomin-Želin-Idrija-Logatec. I want to know: What sections on this road are envisaged for recovery in the period 2011-2015 or are already in implementation? Besides, I'm wondering: When will the rehabilitation of the section of the road on Travnik begin, where the traffic lights have been installed since 2009? I asked Minister Vlačič with a similar content as early as autumn 2009, but it referred to a shorter section of the Keltika road. This time, however, I am particularly interested in projects on the entire path of Keltika, from Tolmina to Logatco as an integral part of the 4th development axis. Unlike the ecclesiastical and Polish part of the 4th development axis, whose placement with the Minister will be seen on Thursday on the ground alone, more documentation is available on the Idrian-Alogic part of the 4th development axis, including more opportunities to draw on European funds. Between Idrija and Godovic in the Zala ravine, construction of the third belt is also in the final stage. The fact is that much of Slovenia has become more accessible by building the highway cross. There has been a concentration of economic operators, concentration of knowledge and migration. Other parts of Slovenia, such as Koroška, Kočevska, Kozjansko, Obsotelje and Bela Krajina, as well as northern Primorska, are constantly losing development potential due to poor transport connections, so that developmental problems have already occurred in some of these environments. Some provinces will not even benefit from or benefit from the planned modernisation of the Slovenian Railways, as construction is not envisaged or is not even available in the Idria-Cerkljan region. We are therefore only doomed to modernise existing road infrastructure. I therefore ask Minister Patrick Vlačič about the continuation of the reconstruction of Keltika from Tolmin through Idria to Logatco in the following period, somewhere there until 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	Dear President, honourable Member! I'll go some projects, so future NRPs. About the road Lower Idrija-Godovich. The reconstruction of the intersection in the industrial zone of Godovic is foreseen for the construction works in 2011 and the completion in 2012. Here we have the realization by the end of 2010: 139 thousand 42 euros, in the 2011 budget there are 80 thousand, for 2012 90 thousand and so on. This project covers the arrangement of the intersections of the main road G2-102/1033 Godovič–Kalce, that is, the intersection of the school, the intersection of the industrial zone Godovic. The school crossing was completed in November 2009. In the invitation to tender for construction works there is a intersection for the industrial zone. The road Spodnja Idrija-Godovič, in the construction phase, is the third belt in the Zala in the length of the circus 700 meters, the completion of construction works by the end of this year. Road G2-102/34, 705 meters long, realisation by the end of 2010 is 129 000 euros, in the 2011 budget is half a million, for 2012 450 thousand euros. Tolmin – Lower Idrija – Godovic–Hotedršica. State spatial plans shall be drawn up for the carriageways. In the 2011 budget there are 30,000, for 2012 there are 60 000, for the project documentation. Then for 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, for 2013 300 thousand, for 2014 half million, for 2015 million, for 2016 million and for 2017 700 thousand. Project Lower Idria-Marof. Budget for 2011 20 000, for 2012 30 000, i.e. acquisition of project documentation. In the NRPs for 2013, 2014 and 2015, 300 000, 500 000, 500 000, for 2016 million and in NRP 2017, 10 million 400 000. Tolmin bypass. The process of preparation of the State Spatial Plan is under way, an idea project and a pre-investment design have been developed. On the basis of an idea project, a draft DN will be prepared. The envisaged VAT Regulation is expected to be adopted at the beginning of 2012. The route of the new bypass connects to the existing main road G2-102/1040, Peršeti–Soča Bridge at the cemetery, and continues to the south with the federal route, at the same time connecting with the trikraki cross to the system of existing roads towards the south, passing through agricultural land along the coast of the longitudinal line and continuing with the bridge across Tolminka and with the circular cross connecting to the main road G2-102/1040. The length of the bypass route is a thousand 500 meters. The reconstruction of Baca-Dolenja Trebush is one of the EU's projects on the priority list. The PGD and PZI project is designed for a section of 6 kilometers, which is for public benefit. The pre-investment design shall be manufactured for all 8,5 kilometres. There are also ransoms in progress to build the necessary properties. For a section 2 kilometers long, the route is expected to be partly in the tunnel, is the preparation of a national spatial plan. Construction is foreseen for 2011-2014 and the estimated investment value is EUR 30 million. Co-financing from the Structural Funds is foreseen. The application for European funding will be prepared this year. The section of road G2-102/1038 Bača–Dolenja Trebuša begins in the area of the intersection with R2-403 Bača–Podbrdo and ends in the area of the intersection with the R3-608 Solkan–Dolenja Trebuša regional road and runs along the right bank of Idrijca. The road also runs through the settlements of Bach near Modrej, Idrija pri Bach, Slap ob Idrijača and several smaller villages. In many places there are inadequate horizontal elements, too narrow a vehicle, insufficient transparency. Through the village there is no pedestrian corridor, bus stops are unscheduled. For these reasons, traffic does not take place on a liquid basis and there is no provision for traffic safety of the road users. The PGDPZI project is designed for a section 6km long, covering measures to improve horizontal and vertical road elements, supporting and supportive measures to regulate the road through settlements. There's a ransom in progress, this is a property and land, real estate. Then is the reconstruction of the Lower Trebush – Želin [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Time's up. Please, Mr. Bevk, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My additional question is to continue, because the minister has some more prepared answers, as I have seen here from my bench. But I'd like to do it anyway, because I don't know if he has an answer to the question that I've already asked in the beginning. In fact, already since spring 2009 a traffic light has been installed on this route, it will now be almost two and a half years, the owner does not want to sell the land, sets the impossible prices here and I hope that you will solve this problem. In fact, Mr Minister, I allow you to answer my question to the end. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We'll see what else the minister has in store for us. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for allowing me to proceed. Reconstruction of Lower Trebush – Želin as well as the EU project on the priority list. A public order for the construction of PGDPZI is under way, a reconstruction of a road of 11 kilometres. The project documentation will be produced by the end of this year and the start of construction in 2012. The investment is estimated at EUR 28 million. The application for allocation will be submitted for confirmation by the end of this year. The road on this section runs along the right bank of the Idrijca River, crossing several right inflows of the Idrijca River, through which bridges and passes are carried out, the route of the road is sealed between the steep incubating beach on the left side and the river stream stream on the other side. The road runs through a configurationally very difficult terrain, which means that along the route there are more walls, support and support structures are part of the road body above the circus 50 % of the total length of the route. The horizontal elements of the road are also suitable for this. 25 radios do not correspond to the project speed of 50 km/h, 28 radios not corresponding to the project speed of 60 km/h due to these exceptional, demanding configuration elements in this part of Slovenia. Production of PGDPZI road reconstruction is ongoing at a length of 11 kilometres. The measures include improving horizontal and vertical elements of the road, supporting and supporting structures, regulating the road through settlements. It's a gallery under the Key. The purpose of the reconstruction was the rehabilitation of the hill under the Key on G2-102/1040. Well, the gallery was already completed in August 2010, a building permit or a utility permit was obtained – I wouldn't talk about it too much because you probably know, but I can tell you that it was without an annex and before the deadline, which I was very happy about. The project is then regularly maintained on the state road of Celtica on the route of Tolmin-Zelin-Idrija-Logatec. In the context of the regular maintenance project, only maintenance works shall be carried out in accordance with the Regulation on types of maintenance roads on public roads and the level of regular maintenance of public roads. This year, partial patching is planned to amount to EUR 122 000, and 660 tonnes of asphalt have been installed. The Travnik hill rehabilitation project provides for the rehabilitation of the walls with the construction of the G2-102/1036 road, Travnik-Idrija-Dolenja Trebusha. For recovery, the contractor selected is a contractor on the basis of a call for tender, a contract for implementation is concluded, and at the same time we are being drawn to the purchase of land from Mr Mark Vogric from Travnik, and all the other land is bought out. He has an unreasonablely high price. Now, however, we still have the problem of an accessible way to carry out the structure under the road, where Mr Vogric is placing an unreasonablely high priced condition on us. We hope to save them by the end of the month, start with parts in early July [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. And now it's really out of time, unless you go with a procedural proposal. Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the question of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnić, who apologized. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I wanted an answer today, but I will still ask the oral question. I expect the Minister's oral response at the next meeting. My question concerns the construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Savi. This project was designed or started in 2000. At that time, planning was also started and later the construction of hydroelectric power plants, which initially stretched along the snails, was launched around 2005-2006 and again in the last period. And they stand primarily because there is no consistent respect for the existing law by the Ministry of Environment and Space. In fact, the existing law provides for different resources to finance various activities in the construction of hydroelectric power plants. This is a public-private partnership project where water infrastructure is built by the country, because water infrastructure in some parts also means flood protection, meaning protection of groundwater, meaning other water measures, namely energy infrastructure in some part. So, according to the current key, this infrastructure is divided into that energy part and the water part. Water is financed by the Water Fund, while energy is financed by the concessionaire from his resources. In the previous year or earlier, in 2009, there was a blockade from the Water Fund. There wasn't enough money coming in, and that's why the project stopped. We've called on the minister several times for answers. The minister promised that the construction would continue. The Minister promised that this will be a glass, and also promised the adoption of state spatial plans for the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, which are the last two in the January 2011 chain. The regulation is not even ready for adoption today, even in February 2012. I therefore ask the Minister first: What is the detailed timetable for the preparation of documentation and the continuation of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava? I want to know: What activities will the Ministry accelerate to ensure that the State Spatial Plans Regulation is adopted against the remaining two power plants? What will the Ministry do to close the financial structure for the water part of the financing of the rest of the chain? My further question is also in connection with the Central Sava. The key is: Why is it worth signing a concession contract for a concession for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Sava? Let me stress that these are the only real renewables projects. Slovenia has strong commitments regarding the share of renewable resources by 2020. I don't know how we're gonna do this unless we speed up these projects. I therefore ask the Minister and call for the acceleration of these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Culture, Majdi Širca.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u94	Dear Mr. President, distinguished Minister, distinguished Minister! Saturday, 3. 6. In 2011, we were able to monitor the contribution or reporting of so - called optants who went to the Idrija Memorial. The contribution was quite long. Interestingly, however, no one knew anything about the event except POP TV, nor did the locals. Apparently, this television has good resources, or you might think it was a scheduled contribution, since it is hard to believe that a television team at the site of an event that was not even known to the locals found itself just by accident or simply by accident. Similar feats, if not misleading, have actually succeeded in the past. At least that's what they claimed. In the same information broadcast, a short contribution, some kind of rapporteur, was also published later on, on the fact that the President of the State, Mr Türk in Brestina, addressed Slovenian natives at their annual meeting. When I looked at this contribution under the impression of the previous one, comparing the attention to which one and the other topics were addressed, I could not explain it all in any other way than that the American capital dictated and determined how to report in the Republic of Slovenia, which was at least at the declaration level independent and sovereign. Is that true? In our first contribution, Slovenians and Slovenia were subtly, sophisticatedly blackened and portrayed as criminals over Italian life. However, the contribution on Slovenian exiles was more by the way and probably only because the president of the country spoke at the meeting. Confirmation that something was wrong and that feeling was wrong with me, were also the calls of friends and acquaintances and conversations in these days, something was gone and it was wrong. The problem of the natives is still a rakrana of this country. And the natives, their descendants, are warning that the injustice is not yet rectified. The President of the State and the media also points to this. In these days they devote quite a lot of space to his speech, and so it is. We also need to face this historic experience. As Minister, also responsible for the media, I ask you: Or in what way could the Ministry also lay down certain requirements or criteria to prevent the modification of the magnification or denial of historical facts by means of sophisticated media manipulations, which, on the one hand, on the other hand, is likely to require capital? I'm asking the Minister: What measures will the Ministry take to prevent the influence and manipulation of public opinion in favour of foreign, in a particular case, US capital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Maja Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u96	Your Honor! The time has passed when we would squander to the media or when we could influence the content of what is written in the Constitution from such or other benches and functions. When we talk about the media, we are, of course, talking about freedom of expression. Because media activity in the Republic of Slovenia is free. Of course, freedom of expression, expression, printing, publication, public appearances is guaranteed. This right may only be restricted when it interferes with another right. That's what you call a right that limits the other. That is why it is also in the key law, the Media Act, as well as in the Constitution, that it is forbidden to disseminate unacceptable content, which we well know, which are, in particular, those who are establishing human dignity and who are challenging human rights. In short, it would be unconstitutional if, as I understand from your question, the State or the Minister of State, the Minister of Media, could order the authority that sets up and gives concessions to design an authority or to give it content, I will tell him, dictate. He can dictate to him and he can make demands and so do the APEK, which is said to be the Agency for Mail and Telecommunications, which issues rights for the dissemination of media content, determines, but at levels that are entered into the law and last more than five minutes, as far as I can explain them to you. Of course, I will not go into the analysis that you have submitted, perhaps I could also find some space in those magazines, those media content where we can express a view of media content, or within those rights and opportunities that we have within the existing and the future media law that speaks of the right to correction, the answer and other options. I believe that you will follow closely the adoption of the Media Act, which you already have in the National Assembly and whose public presentation will be in the coming week, because you will listen to this right that it brings, which I mentioned earlier, and which follows the constitutional right to free autonomous expression. All the levers are brought by this law, much more so than the present one, because in dialogue with journalists or media professionals who have been long and exhausted, there has been a clear need for this autonomy to increase and not only to increase autonomy, but also to increase those mechanisms that in some ways care for possible ones, as you say, manipulation or discontent with media content. These are mechanisms that the country strongly opens up in relation to the journalistic feature, if I may say so, and provides opportunities for greater education, greater complementarity, greater assistance to professional societies and, of course, to all others operating in the media field, so that the media itself can be made aware, further educated and perhaps more strengthened in its behaviour, knowledge and communication of content, which are of course very responsible. However, if I touch on the question, as you say, of an unfair approach to a very important topic, which is brought only by the celebration in the Castle of Reichenburg, it should say that the state can have other levers in respect of history. This lever is unequivocal in the fact that the Ministry of Culture is renewing this castle so that the museum of exiles, the very difficult history of Slovenk and Slovenes, who have been expelled from our space, can be protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Franci Kek will ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished Minister of Transport Patrick Vlačič! The Road Traffic Act was recently adopted, which provided for the gradual introduction of the possibility of a so-called safety-rolling rule at a red to the right. It's a rule if someone doesn't interfere with someone else, they can safely turn right. It's about getting from an ecological point of view, but it's also about saving time. They already have such a rule in other countries. Graduation is foreseen. Finding out whether this would work for Slovenia would first be checked at one of the intersections. This rule was also supported by Minister Vlačič. I want to know: At what stage is the implementation of this law now? Is it possible that this experimental intersection has already been established?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, it is. I've backed this rule, too. The Road Traffic Rules Act in Article 27, paragraph 3, criminalises this possibility on the road for a certain period, which shall not be less than three months and not longer than one year, in order to establish a traffic regime allowing, restricting or obliging road users to conduct which is contrary to road traffic rules, such as the transport of a red light at the turn of the right – which you are asking me – by means of such experimental traffic arrangements being marked by a prescribed traffic signal. It was also given in Article 11 of the same law to the Minister of Transport to specify in more detail the conditions and method of carrying out the experiment and the content of the laboratory of the experimental transport regime. The deadline for this regulation is 1 October 2011. In order to be able to initiate experimental transport arrangements, including the possibility of introducing a safe turn to the right in the light of red light, a regulation on the conditions for implementation and the content of the laboratory of the experimental traffic regulation should be adopted at the first stage of the regulation on road traffic signalling and transport equipment. As I said before, it is therefore essential that such experimental traffic arrangements are marked by the prescribed traffic signalling. The working material of the first Regulation referred to above is expected to be ready by mid-July. The new Regulation on Road Traffic Signalling and Equipment is already being prepared as a working material, on the basis of which further coordination and complementing of existing road signalling will begin. As part of the preparation of both regulations, we are studying this system as the first experiment, i.e. turning to the right at the red light. If consensus is reached within the working groups, a new transport signal will be proposed, and I expect it to be used in the autumn. At which intersections the experimental traffic arrangements will be carried out will be known at the conclusion of the regulation and the content of the laboratory of the experimental transport regime. So you can expect in this autumn that this experiment in our country will also begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will build [[...]] Please, Mr. Kek, you want to complete the answer. Yeah, I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u102	To complete the question, or I would just like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer that I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u103	Minister, you won't get a chance to answer at this time. Okay? Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health Dorian Marusic a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The field of physical therapy is an area that still plagues ghosts in Slovenia. In the past, we have witnessed a number of complications that have been caused mainly by the machinations of Mrs Friederika Kresal, when she obtained a licence from Mr., your predecessor, Miklavčič, with incorrect information as President of the Physiotherapists' Chamber. After a number of complications, she resigned and also gave back the powers given at that time to the Physiotherapists’ Chamber. You took a different approach at the time you occupied this function. Instead of granting concessions or these public powers to another institution, you have decided to set up, on the basis of a regulation, a commission to grant licensing points to physiotherapeutic operators. All well and well, but according to the information we have, we have found that this Commission has in fact not performed this expected function since 2010, but it has certainly been a surprise to all that, as a member of this Commission, which is a three-member Commission, you, who are fully responsible for the appointment of these members, have re-elected or decided Mrs Friederiko Kresal. In the public certainly, and above all by the profession, amazement prevailed. Especially given that there is a reasonable conflict of interest here, it is possible, not least, to see that some consultation was organized by the Physicotherapy Chamber and by an email sent by Mrs Friederika Kresal to all physiotherapists or some in Slovenia, an indication by Mrs Friederika Kresal that this particular consultation organised by the Physicotherapists' Chamber will be given the opportunity to all those who will participate in it to obtain those mandatory ID points. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: What decision did it take to make you decide to appoint her to this committee? What exactly does this Commission do, how much costs has it caused so far, and in particular what are the effects of the Commission's operation here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dorian Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u106	Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, thank you for this question. You ask the Commission to assess the appropriateness of the licensing programme. On the basis of Article 16 of the Law on State Administration and on the basis of the Regulations on the Register of Licences of Physiotherapeutic Operators, I have to appoint this Commission as Minister of Health. The field of physiotherapy was covered by an expert at the Ministry and carried out appropriate procedures in accordance with this Regulation. Procedures initiated by proposing to the members of the Commission, on the one hand, of the Chamber, on the other hand, the Society and the third group from which the members of this Commission are recruited from, from the Ministry of Health. So I appointed two members of the Ministry. I have a direct influence on that. I appointed the other two members on the basis of a proposal from the Association of Physico-therapists and on the basis of the recommendations and opinions of the Physico-therapists' Chamber. The latter suggested Friederiko Kresal. The Commission was appointed in October 2010 and, as you can see, the real results of the Commission's extraction are difficult to talk about. In another part, it may be about the excited public or the opinion of the section on the appointment of this commission. I didn't get any special complaints. Last but not least, I respect certain organisations that send their members to this committee. Even after the acquisition of the Directorate of Health, in whose jurisdiction this area belongs, the Director, who was appointed to the Government, Barbara Jamnik, proposed to take on her own role in this committee. Also due to interests in regulating the field of physiotherapy. So I replaced two members of the Ministry with the last lady, Barbara Jamnik. At that time, I also reiterated my invitation to the President to join the activities. I can argue that on 8 June this Commission also met and adopted criteria for the scoring of vocational education. The President also subsequently forwarded the role for education organisers. How does the commission work? The Commission shall meet at meetings convened by the President and may be convened by other members of the working group. It's about possible costs. They apply as is the case for these committees — members of a commission who are not employed by the authorities of the State Administration are preparing a payment for the work done in accordance with the Regulations on the Payment of Bodies and Individual Experts at the Ministry of Health. It's effective from 31st. 5. 2011 – that's when I fixed it – it's 14.55 euros an hour. Such a payment shall be made to those members who are not members of the public administration. If I can sum it up. Appointment of members of the group according to the competences or two of the most important organisations and the society and the physical therapists' chamber. I've taken the suggestions into account, I could be amusing myself, or I could be dealing with another name, that's with the one from the physiotherapists' society. The third is a member of the Ministry. The activities were only glassed in spring 2011 and the scoring criteria were also prepared. Maybe an announcement. In view of the really long-term discussions in the field of physiotherapy, after consulting with physiotherapy experts, I decided to appoint RSK for this area, which will be composed of relevant institutions – societies, chambers and colleges. It will probably be a question then, but I must admit that, as far as these decisions are concerned, she is commended by the experts so that they can only round up their professional activities under one umbrella organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Grill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much for these explanations. It is true, Minister, that you are competent to choose these proposals for yourself, but you may also be an arbitrator. In view of the fact that Mrs Friederiki Kresal was indicted more than a year ago, where data abuse was rightly suspected. Finally, on the basis of this suspicion, you may also have the opportunity to propose to the Physico-therapists' Chamber that they appoint or propose any other person who will not give rise to any doubt or doubt at all. Surely everyone is also asked how the fact that more than a year after this indictment was brought before a court has not yet been brought to justice. Even more surprising was the fact that at the meeting held in Maribor in June, organised by the Chamber of Physiotherapists led by Mrs Friederika Kresal, who was apparently still in charge of this organisation, they were at this meeting as lecturers Mr Zalar, member of the LDS, Mrs Friederika Kresal, also Minister of LDS. It is also surprising that, by the Ministry of Health, the State Secretary was also a participant in this consultation, which was relatively poorly visited by the data. On the other hand, it was surprising that two days had taken place at the Congress of the Association of Physico-therapists held in Laska, it was very extensive and professional, at which representatives of the Ministry were also invited and a thorough professional discussion was held, the international public was present and no one from the Ministry attended, and no one apologized. So it surprises the Ministry's incoherence or incompetence that a professional is neglecting and, on the other hand, someone else, who certainly has some dilemmas in the public eye, nevertheless takes into account, in my opinion, more than it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u110	Maybe a more personal look and a short replica. We have different views, but as a minister, I want as little as possible or if it is possible not to get involved in professional decisions. I don't think it's possible to prejudge until the verdict or the verdict of the day. As far as participation is concerned, I can only claim that the State Secretary from the Ministry of Health for participation in this conference has not been financed. However, it is the individual’s decision to participate in these conventions. But I will check, thank you for the last initiative, why no one has responded to the invitation of society to their meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mirko Brulc will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic, who is excused to be absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u112	Your Honor, hello! Even though Mr Minister is excusedly absent, I would ask the question, also because the Minister of Agriculture is here. It is a problem of the retainer Vogršček, which was intended exclusively for irrigation of the lower Vipavska valley. We know that without irrigation farming is not possible in these circumstances. Today’s forecast, which I read somewhere, even says that this year’s average temperature will rise by 2 degrees Fahrenheit [2 ° C] again. So, without irrigation, we'll have a hard time surviving. The water supply in this container is very low, so it takes a lot of electricity to pump this water. Water is cold, which has a negative effect on vegetation, is mud, causes damage in irrigation systems. But so far, a lot of promises have been made. The Ministry of Agriculture was already ready at the start to cover its part of the obligation. However, I would like to ask Mr. Žarnic the following question: What kind of activities are being carried out now? There is no action on the ground to determine where the damage to this anger, pumping system and anything else is happening, it says, on the containment device itself nothing is happening. There may be projects at work, but we don't have information if there's anything on it. People are slowly thinking in this direction that recovery is not necessary at all and that this low water supply is performed by artificial means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Miro Petek will ask the Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar, who is also acquitted. Please, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Both ministers! When I addressed the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the beginning of this mandate the question about the cost of hiring the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' premises, I received an answer that these costs amounted to around EUR 12 million in 2008. By various measures, this cost fell by a half-second million, to EUR 10.5 million in 2009 at annual level. But for 2010, we were able to hear information that costs increased by a third. In 2010, the state of Slovenia already paid EUR 14 million for renting residences, apartments and business premises of the DKP. Some information, which was published on national television and was inaccurate, has been denied by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs these days, but has not denied this total amount, namely EUR 14 million for rents at the annual level. If we include an additional EUR 30 million for rents for more than 500 spaces leased by the Republic of Slovenia for various national authorities, this figure is truly huge, the Republic of Slovenia pays 44 million for rents only. Let me also mention as interesting the fact that the Anti-Corruption Commission rents 36,000 euros per month, which at the annual level amounts to 430 000 euros for rents for only one state commission. Slovenia would be able to build at least 5,6 of the ministry's beautiful buildings each year for the money we give to rents at the annual level, but we are cost-effective at all levels and support the wide variety of real estate tycoons both at home and apparently around the world. I myself have proposed to the Government that it achieve a 20% reduction in rent prices, which would mean up to €10 million per year, but this has not happened. That's why I'm asking Minister Zbogar: What happened between last year and last year, so that the cost of renting these premises increased to EUR 14 million? Since Minister Žbogar is not present today and there will be only one session before the parliamentary holidays – there is a high probability that he will not be, and probably not or at least won't be, – I suggest that Minister Žbogar answer me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you. As you're told, you'll get the answer. Now he's gonna be a magician. Stefan Tisel asked the Minister of Health Dorian Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u116	All good greetings, Mr Vice President, Honourable Minister, honourable Members! Waiting types and waiting periods in health care are probably as long as long as healthcare exists, but in recent years, this area has become much more acute in recent two mandates and people rightly expect more order in this area. They're expected to be in their first place for their own needs. In recent years, this has led to the introduction of rules on allowable waiting species. Even 30 years ago, perhaps even later, a number of patients were not commissioned at all, but the controls were ordered in three months, six months or so, and all patients were examined on the same day, so that there were no orders. And so the number of patients in the infirmary increased every year. All of these patients have been examined by their physicians. Then that's the other standard for outpatients. On the basis of these standards, doctors must work in the infirmary, and the insurance company has confirmed this standard. So neither the patients nor the doctors are satisfied because the patient wants more time with the doctor, and the doctor is not satisfied if he has to put patients at "speed" at the door where the whole species is. This area has not yet been regulated. This is probably due to the fact that Slovenian patients or people go up to seven times more often to a doctor than in the Western world, such as in developed countries or in northern Europe. This system of waiting rows has been upgraded. If we look at it, this rule was finally kind of classified as three stages of urgency: urgent, fast and regular – urgent within 24 hours, fast within three months, regularly within six months, published before one year, August 2010. I ask the Minister: How does it assess progress in this row in waiting lines? What are the shortcomings? How are we going to put this together so that there will be more order and more accessibility in waiting rows and seasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u118	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members. Thank you for that question. It is probably the desire and purpose of each individual when his health breaks down so that he can be dealt with as soon as possible, quality and safety. We have also somehow set ourselves this as the basic objective of upgrading the health system in terms of improving accessibility. One of the first steps was to analyse the situation in the field of waiting lists, waiting rows, and we joined in September of last year by publishing a rulebook. The aim of this Regulation was to reduce, or in particular transparent, waiting lists through the tools they would introduce and through the criteria, in order to increase the fairness and accessibility of health services and to achieve greater mobility within the Slovenian space and to exploit the capacities we have in the citizens' day-to-day information. When you mentioned three criteria, I would just add that, of course, there are exceptions. Exceptions are cancer patients who should be examined within a month. Due to a number of years of known problems in the field of orthopaedic and orthodontics, this term, which should be reviewed, has been extended to 12 months. Also for orthodontic treatment. Well, there are certain exceptions. What were the first and direct measures? In terms of regulation, we have carried out a number of so-called instructional controls with the health inspectorate, because the Law on Patient Rights is weak here and there are other types of controls that cannot be carried out, not even those that have criminal consequences, so a law on patient rights will be introduced by the Government in a short time, amending certain articles in order to increase the operationality of the regulatory apparatus, that is, the ministries and the inspectorate. But within ten months, a thousand 295 checks of waiting lists, instructional lists, were carried out, teaching those who supervise them to be effective. As a result of the deviations in access to waiting lists, as Minister, I ordered control together with the health inspectorate at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, where it was stated that there may have been abuse in the case of Zidar, and two controls at the Clinical Centre Ljubljana and Maribor. In Ljubljana, two of the infamous cases of poor access of children to nuclear magnetic resonance, both clinical centres where certain deviations have also occurred. In order to identify the penetration of the rules and amendments we have introduced, we have carried out a number of consultations with those who manage the lists, with professional, business directors, all responsible, together six major consultations during this period. Systemic measures. In order to increase accessibility, we must in some way stimulate operators to improve productivity and the quality of safe services. I also use this place to really thank you for everything the performers have done. Last year, as Minister, I launched an incentive to pay 10% of the planned scope of the first checks to operators and 20% of the planned intervention to all those operations, diagnostic interventions, because they are long waiting periods. What are the results? By 2010, we are more or less monitored only by the limited scope of operations and interventions carried out within the hospital framework. However, from 2003 to 2010, the number of patients treated in the hospital environment increased by almost 16%, which is a very good result, and it is also commendable for all the teams that carried out this. However, as a result of the measures, the number of people waiting for a good quarter decreased by the end of the previous year, with this figure below 22,000 for the first time. Of course, if these patients could be placed in all hospitals, this would mean that they should be treated within a month or two or that there would be such a waiting period, but we have narrow throats, especially orthopaedics and some others. Therefore, in the last year, we first recorded the situation for all, 230 rapporteurs for these services, for 406 services and found that 232,000 pending patients are for diagnostic examinations, for operations and for specialist outpatient interventions. Of course, such a great deal was impossible to bring into the control system, so together with the contractors we decided if we were allowed, I will finish the last part later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u119	Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. Perhaps I would like to draw attention to some other problems, particularly in the case of peer reviews in special areas. We know that special outpatients or on-calls are available for those who need to be checked within 24 hours. The bigger problem is then in the categories quickly or regularly. It fills up quickly in three months, and then there's no room for those regulars. But I'd like to point out, like I said, something special. For example, the general physician cannot send some sophisticated investigation to send it somehow to the waiting list. This can only be done by a specialist in those professions, such as prostate ultrasound, cystoscopy or cardiac ultrasound or coronaryography and so on. So somehow we can't afford this waiting kind, this period is counted in the same basket as the first period for the first examinations, or for those who send the general doctor to the specialist to relieve him of those worries that something is wrong with him. Specialists are already regulating themselves as part of their work to order, of course, and distribute, maybe within one month, two or three need ultrasound or coronagraphy, cystoscopy. In other areas too, and perhaps these waiting types would still be in the specialist domain because it is their circle. Also on some X-rays of CT, magnet and so you wouldn't double-cross because it happens that the patient goes to a specialist, he writes, he has to do an ultrasound, he goes to the general, he's looking again, but it's a domain specialist that somehow does it in his activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thanks, mag. Tysel, for the opportunity offered to complete and also discuss these changes. Since all these investigations or interventions in so many operators were impossible to monitor continuously, we have decided, together with the contractors, to monitor this once a year. However, we have ruled out 46 treatments, operations, interventions and inspections that we regularly monitor every month. And data show that from 1 January to 1 June, the number dropped by a good third, from just over 70,000 to 50,000. More importantly, the criteria we have set regularly, quickly and urgently have been set by the cattle. Of course, there are some problems in sorting this out, but the number of those waiting above the allowable and prescribed waiting period has halved. So in early January, 14,000, now it's only 7,000. I agree with the comments, the concerns, not just yours, but the other performers. What I consider to be an achievement is that we are realistic, that I am sure that by the end of the mandate we can achieve greater transparency in waiting lists so that patients can be dealt with within the prescribed waiting periods. If I evaluate it, it's real, but not in some way very pervasive, we could set ourselves more ambitious goals, but I think it's a real path. Another important success is that this large project is carried out by such an association involving operators, the Medical Chamber, the Health Insurance Institute, the Health Inspectorate and that we are looking for opportunities that could be introduced to make this system more transparent, in order to make work easier for doctors and their teams. What I expect in the future is that citizens will make substantial use of online applications. Every month at the Ministry, we conduct a survey and find the shortest time to do a single intervention or operation for 20 limited interventions. We publish this every month so that citizens can find these services. We have an operator who, within weeks or two, allows certain operations or inspections. Secondly, that operators should also make more use of information solutions at the Institute for Health Protection and at the Ministry where we publish the results in order to move faster towards the goal and increase transparency. What you yourself have mentioned, I believe, is why I have also called on RSK to upgrade these harsh criteria quickly, regularly and urgently with the criteria of patient difficulty and also with the competences of who to travel. I don't think anyone can send a very specialized service. Well, there's something else I'm working on on this project. However, I am convinced that in a year and a half we could achieve adequate transparency, this is necessary, because in 2014 we will be able to provide services to citizens in a wider European space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Petan. [[No, no, ……]] Brunskol. [[No, no, ……]] Mr Kolarič will ask Minister Lukšić a question, which is absent. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u124	Yeah, I'll set it up. The minister's in the room there because I saw him earlier. If you don't mind, can I wait for him?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u125	Then I'd like you to step outside and call him. Expected, Mr. Luksic is on his way. Here, ask a question. Not yet. Well, he probably listens to you from the office and you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues! But I'll speak more slowly, so the minister can come.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u127	But time is running out, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u128	After a press conference of the Ministry of Education and Sport, held on 11 May 2011, the media reported that the planned construction of the Nordic centre of Planica, which included a new 135-metre jumper, had encountered difficulties, as one of the companies running for the tender had submitted an audit on the tender documentation and thus stopped the selection of the builder for the construction of the Nordic centre of Planica. The Minister for Education and Sport has already said at the press conference that stopping the construction of the Nordic centre of Planica is not in the public interest and that legislation in this area should be amended in such a way as to protect public interest more. Procrastination of the decision of the audit commission may jeopardise the acquisition of funds from the European Union. Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšić, whom I welcome very much, I ask: What is the current complication with the selection of the contractor for the construction of the Nordic centre of Planica? What solutions does the Ministry of Education and Sport propose on this issue? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u130	Mr President, Mr Member, fellow Members, Comrade Minister! Planica, as you know, is a priority that Slovenia has been dealing with for many years. It was a priority of the former government, which took several steps towards preparing the documentation. It's the priority of this government. During this time we have prepared an airport for the World Cup, which has been excellently implemented and where Slovenia has achieved a good result. And now it's Bloudkov's big girl. We had already entered the tender in February, and then it began to say, Calvary. 2. 3. A small undertaking which has not even submitted an application for an invitation to tender has submitted an application for an audit concerning the tendering documentation for this invitation to tender. 8. 3. At the invitation of the Sport Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, Planica, the contracting authority, supplemented the request with proof of payment of the fee. 22. 3. The Office issued a decision rejecting the audit application. 30. 3. The Planica Institute, which is the contracting authority responsible for the construction, has received an application from the company to continue the proceedings before the State Audit Commission. 31. 3. Thus, the documentation of the Office required for the decision of the State Audit Commission shall be delivered to the seat as soon as possible in order to complete the procedure. As a rule, the Commission decides very quickly, this time it is 28. 4. Thus, a bad month after the audit request was issued, the State Audit Commission announced that a final decision would require an expert opinion from the Faculty of Construction. So the last day she had to make a decision, she found that she needed an additional executive opinion. 20. 6, that is, 2 months after that, the Planica Office receives a letter from the company that submitted the request for withdrawal of the audit request. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport Planica shall inform the State Audit Commission of the withdrawal of the application on the same day and shall invite the Commission to conclude the procedure as soon as possible. Today we're 21. 6. and this is the state we're in. So we want this complaint to end as soon as possible and to start building. We've lost three months, as you can see. The funds earmarked for this from the European Fund are waiting, and if we don't start building in these days, you know it snows and the season is over. That's how much I'd have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you. You want a supplement, please, Mr. Kolaric.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I, too, fear that this year's construction season will be lost — unfortunately — and that something special will not happen in Planica. While I hope that this will not happen and that the European funds for this project will not be lost. Therefore, I would once again call on both the Office of Planica and the Ministry if anything else can be done, because it would be a shame to lose these summer months in administrative disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then, I give the floor to Mr Marjan Bezjak, who will ask the question of the Magi. Darji Radic, Minister of Economy, who is not present at the moment. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister and Minister, all present! In recent times, electricity companies have been offering power bills and leaflets that are attached to the electricity bill, pumps for the construction of sanitary water. In doing so, it is interesting to offer exclusively pumps from foreign producers, although we have recognised and successful manufacturers of such products in Slovenia. This privilege of foreign producers is even more incomprehensible in view of the overall economic situation and the situation in which Slovenian economic operators operate. That's why I'm asking: Where are the reasons not to offer the products of Slovenian top manufacturers of this equipment?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you. You want me to answer you at the next meeting or Mrs Radiceva is coming. You probably know the question. We'll wait for you to calm down. Don't burn the water. Here you are, Mrs. Radic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much and I apologize. There was another question ahead of me, and I recognized it. Thank you for the question, Mr. Bezjak. We have checked the economy and do not have such information to provide businesses with such materials. Nor is it clear which energy companies are involved in this case. However, the fact is that even if electric companies send such promotional materials together, this is actually part of their business policy and unfortunately we as the Ministry of Economy cannot be involved or involved in such things. If anyone does, then either the Supervisory Board or, of course, the Capital Investment Management Agency could have a word in this regard. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you. Dear Minister of Economy, Madam Mag. Darja Radic! I am not satisfied with the answer, even less are manufacturers who promote the installation of similar and even more quality equipment such as: Lentherm-invest, Thermotechnika, Thermo shop, Gorenje, d. d. All these manufacturers are credited with Slovenians and Slovenes having over 50,000 sanitary heat pumps installed in their homes, over 5,000 heating heat pumps, and – which is particularly important in this difficult economic situation – that they have over 100 employees in Slovenian companies. In particular, I would like to highlight the production company of these Lentherm-invest devices, which is one of the most important companies in the Slovenian Gorica, in Lenart. It is therefore not comprehensible, but even less encouraging, that Slovenian distribution companies promote and advertise the foreign producers for whom the State grants subsidies, i.e. for investments in such installations, with the installation of these installations and distribution companies offer an additional 10% discount for a period of two years. Your Honor, this is unacceptable, distasteful. Moreover, this is the rude work of the Government for these Slovenian economic operators who manufacture these pumps. Here is evidence that the electricity distribution companies also send billings to these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I have to say again, we really don't have any influence on these things. However, we can have a partial impact when we make public funds for such investments. In this case, the Ministry of Economy has proposed an Eco Fund through which subsidies are granted for energy efficiency measures, and in this area we have proposed that those companies or those investors receiving public funds should invest in such heat pumps that are specifically certified and the certificate is awarded by the Faculty of Engineering. We have now also reviewed among all recipients of public funds for the installation of these heat pumps. This information is also available on the Eco Fund website. In the analysis of these applications, we have found that most of the built-in heat pumps are those for which Slovenian companies are producers. This is at least how we care here, but it is still necessary to respect market rules, competition rules and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you, Your Honor. Here I have evidence that, in fact, these manufacturers of these apparatus have also come to me and addressed written evidence to me that you are doing as much as you can with the supervisory councils – because in the supervisory board, the Ministry of Economy also has a word – and that we are going to have a broader debate in the National Assembly. I'll give you this material and proof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Bezjak's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on Mrs Darje Radic's response to his question on the economy, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Wednesday, 22 June, in the framework of the votes. Mr Milenko Zicherl will now ask the Foreign Minister a question, but he apologized and is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the absence of a minister who will answer this question at one of the next meetings, I ask the following question. The policy of Slovenia towards the Western Balkans is often shown by one at the declaration level and the other at the implementation level. A few examples point to this, so I'd just like to ask a question right now, and then I'll justify it. So I'm asking the minister: What is Slovenia's policy towards the Western Balkan countries? How does it adapt to events? Because this area is very dynamic. That we really do one thing, so we declare and we stand for one thing, but sometimes the opposite happens, the following cases prove. We do support Macedonia, in a banal case around appointment, the official name is the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for us Macedonia, of course, is short. We don't see any reason to use that other name. However, we also had an unloving event in Macedonia. In fact, there were several complaints from the Macedonian side against former European Member of Slovenia, Zoran Thaler; on the one hand, he was rapporteur for Macedonia, and on the other hand his private company was doing public research for one of the candidates in the elections. Mr Thaler was then confused, and perhaps it would be interesting how the proceedings against him were conducted in Slovenia. Mr Buzek said he would follow the procedure. Then Serbia. Mr Kacin is a rapporteur and at the same time a person is a non-gray. The builders may have also contributed to the deterioration of relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The dog's report on Bosnia has quite upset certain circles in Bosnia. We upset the people ourselves with unpaid salaries in construction. The builders had open projects in Bosnia, but they did not have solid foundations and they were cancelled. Croatia is still a very open topic of chapters 13 and 23 – fisheries and justice and the rule of law. In our relations with Croatia we still use the words "environmental fishing zone", although the official term is "protective ecological fishing zone", and this other name has greater weight and strength.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you. As you wish, the Minister will be asked to give you an oral answer at the next meeting, i.e. in July. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, as far as I can see or hear, you are preparing a recast of your education program in Tacno. It's about the Candidates Program for Police. The primary trend of this revision, as far as can be seen from these public documents or available data, is to make it a higher school rather than a retraining from high school, which I must welcome. I've written about it myself since 1999, and it seems to me the only thing that makes sense is that you're going this way. But what I'm worried about, and what I'm asking you is: How are the programs? When were the current or existing programmes that were adopted at the time when I was alone at the Ministry of the Interior, that was in 1999? In fact, I have a lot of information that these programs have been badly altered. Changed in the sense that you are actually instituting that you have introduced into these programs some of the content from World War II that are forged. Maybe I'd like to ask you this: Do you feel normal today after so many years of World War II, after independent Slovenia, to teach police candidates about Titus, to learn things that are not accurate? What am I talking about? I'm simply talking about historical facts. After the state of Slovenia has long abandoned all those things that concern some celebrations of Titus, minutes of silence, sirens and such things as we have known. And yet, in Tacno, it appears to have been reintroduced into these curricula. This seems completely unacceptable to me, today, after 20 years and so forth on the 20th birthday of this country! And him, that is, Titus, as such today to be magnified as a person – I especially ask you – as a person who has contributed to Slovenia's independence!? Don't you think that's the roughest lie? After all, he is the founder of an army that attacked, which is a Yugoslav army that was actually killing police officers. In a few days you'll be in one of those places, that's in Koroška, where the celebration will be. In short, I find that absolutely impossible. I'm asking: Who introduced this into the curriculum, and why is this happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Member, honourable Members! Yes, perhaps it would be easier, Mr Member, if you asked me in concrete terms what is supposed to be wrong in our curricula. I've been thinking a lot about what these contents would be from the previous regime and the other world war that would be in there. I also asked my colleagues at the Police Academy, and they assured me that there were no such content at issue. But since you have asked a specific question about a specific person, I will also check that and answer you, as usual, in writing. Otherwise, how did the program change? You know how long it takes, 18 months and so on, because you're an expert on that. But he's updated quite a few times. The foundations were first established in 1998 and then updated on the basis of the changes detected in 2003 and then were complete renovations in 2004, with the participation of police professionals, education centres, the Ministry of Sport, etc. etc. In June 2004, the Minister of the Interior adopted the programme, 2006 was suspended, 2008 were updated again, last year updated shorts, colleagues at the Police Academy care at their own discretion, knowledge of what needs to be taken into account with regard to the development of the profession, etc. [[...]] You know that very well. I do not believe that we would return with knowledge at some time that may not be relevant, but surely history is what it is, and it is impossible to change whether we like it or not. But, as I said, that's the specific question you asked me. I'll check again, now that I know what you're asking, if not, I'd answer you today. But it is true that we have made this evaluation so that, as you have already found out, it is wise that this is a higher school. We had a working group that's been working for a long time, and I think it's been working on this for almost a year, and then it came from the starting point. I agreed with them, and now we've set up a project to get this high school out. To be a police officer requires so much multidisciplinary knowledge that it is right to raise their level of education and then also to arrange who goes to master's degree, how goes, what specialized studies are being started, etc.; everything is somehow more logical and easier if we have a higher school than a primary school for police officers. We plan to launch this new programme already in the study year 2012/2013. In short, we are trying to make this education as modern and appropriate as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Indeed, Madam Minister, you always answer me, although with that reply about the Hypo Bank, I was not satisfied with the Inspectorate because I did not hold to it, but also with the situation I am about to speak about and the quotes I am about to make, I do not owe you. You won't think it's an attack on you now, because with 9,000 600 employees, you can't know what she's doing as a minister. But it's just that this really happened. And secondly, please don't look for my source, but let me know in a month what you've done. I'll be more pleased. May 4th this year at 3 p.m. Look, the instructor's calling 80 people in Gotenica for training. What's going on? He commands, groups, choir, to the right level, calmly, at rest. And he starts his speech. This speech is written – I will say that what I will read to you is written in memory. And he says, "We are gathered here to honour with a minute of silence the memory of the man for whom you are here today. To the man for whom today we have Slovenia alone." Look what he said! "And for which we can live as we live. Does anyone know who I'm talking about?" One of the candidates answered and said, "Yeah, it's about Tito." The instructor says, "Yes, Joseph Broz Tito was the only one who held the Balkans together, see what happened after he died. We remember him because we were raised like this, and you must remember him, and you must also..." - I can't read everything - and at the end, "Glory to him." Then he tore them apart. The second group, however, had a second political "training" – sometimes said in the military. And they greet these people down there with "the death of fascism, the freedom of the people". The instructors greet them with the "death of fascism" and they reply to the group "freedom of the nation". Now let's leave fascism and all that stuff behind, but we didn't do it when I was alone there 30 years ago. I don't owe you, I repeat, don't look for my resources, take action! And put this instructor on patrol over there at the stadium.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u152	Dear Member! First, I'll check the information you have if it really happened, how it happened, and then I'll take action or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go. We'll wait for a minute. Yes, we can. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u154	All right, I'll be on Alice Jeraj's mic. Look, I've done it in principle several times before because I didn't ask for a debate in the National Assembly, because I thought the answer was appropriate. I know you couldn't give an exact answer today, but the problem that we have after 20 years of independent Slovenia seems so great that we have to say something about it in the National Assembly. Not in terms of the terrible guilt of the Minister, 9 000 600 people the Minister cannot control, but also in terms of how the checks of this question will proceed, and what will happen if something like this never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you. So it was Mr Gorenak, it was because of the magnetogram and the other microphone. On the proposal by Mr Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on Mrs Kresalova's reply to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Wednesday, 22 June 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marijan Križman will now ask Mrs Majdi Širca's Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and fellow Members, good day to you all! My question, Madam Minister, is very simple. I'm worried about what's going on at the Sergey Mashera Maritime Museum in Piran. The media has been keeping abreast of unusual transactions, if I may say so, at least that's what they've been reporting, and that's still to be proved, Director Gamboz. Above all, she was denied the mismanagement and mismanagement of state and European money. Of course, I am asking this question because I thought this story was a bit too one-sided; it is unilateral because, as I said, it only dealt with certain acts that were not in the spirit and in accordance with the rules. My concern is primarily for the Piranese Salts, this cultural monument, which I believe is in good hands at this moment, is well mastered with them. However, I am afraid that because of all the stories that have taken place on the day of the Director's accusation, I said that I have the feeling that the backgrounds are probably a little different and more important than what has been written and said so far. All this can be verified, all this can be proven. I think they are now criminals in this institution, and I think that the Pirate Mayor himself is responsible for part of this institution, of course, in addition to the Ministry. As I say, my fundamental question is: What's going on with the salts? Is there a transfer to another controller, the owner? At least: Should we do backstage games and use the backstage in front? I'm asking you this question because, as I'm told, it seemed to me in the media that this story was too one-sided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you so much for asking. Undoubtedly it is worth agreeing with you that even in this case, in the case of this museum, the media was extremely large. I regret that this attention is not present even when many museums are extremely pervasive and efficient and it is somehow self-evident, except perhaps on the Museum night last Saturday. Here, too, I agree with you that in the case of possible findings of irregularities, it is appropriate to wait for those who will examine these possible irregularities. You know that the founder of the museum is a municipality and that the museum has a so-called mandate, it has the status of an authorized museum where the state transfers funds, but it does not have any more control, even though we have a member or a member of the world in which the new mandate last week of the world has also extended or guaranteed. This is my pleasure, since more or less all other municipal museums in Slovenia do not have representatives in the world, so we give money without control, so I welcome the changes that will now take place in ZUIK, the realization of public interest in the field of culture, this opportunity will bring. But let's get back to your question. Several audits have also been carried out at the Ministry of Culture, business audits, and the end of the museum have acquired some funds in recent years for the modernisation or preservation of certain heritage facilities in the Solinas themselves, as well as intervention funds to address the effects of the storm. And this audit was carried out. The museum itself has contributed and commissioned several audits, both in the legal aspect of the eligibility of public procurement and inequitableness or necessity, as well as some other audits, including the construction experts, were asked to give an opinion on whether the calls were respected or whether the conditions the Institute for Cultural Heritage Protection, in this case Piran, should have been given, taken into account, given and so on. This package, if I say so myself, I have asked the founder, this is the Piran City Municipality, to do its final audit, to compile all these findings together and to make no doubt as to whether there has been any error in the museum in these obvious procedures, which I say are very much exposed to the media. And if it was how to act in this case, for the Founder is he who has this power, neither is the world, but the world is right to be informed. And I believe that this will be done and that perhaps there will also be a question below that which is now being asked. And you're also asking another question, if I may say so, and you're asking what will be more systematicly done for Soline, for the museum or for the cultural heritage, which is a monument of national importance; we know that. I think that tomorrow, if the government's meeting is tomorrow, or tomorrow's, if it is Thursday, the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is the custodian of the nature protection work, will finally come to the Government with a management plan for the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park 2011-2021, where the relations between partners, museums and also define the rules of the game are precisely regulated. I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture has been extremely cooperative or has been working on this and has urged us to finally come to this governance plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, in this part, I have been pleased with your reply, especially in this second part, where you have specifically and comprehensively said what changes are taking place in this area that we are all most interested in. However, this is a pearl on 650 hectares and we cannot fix this in the second generation with the unconsciousness of one generation, because people would be more conscious or more oriented. Why did I ask you this question? And I'm going to ask one more part of the question. Because some authorities have also made flat-rate statements, but I will not name these people or accuse them; but when I heard all this, it seemed to me that this was not enough to worry about cultural heritage. So I agree with the beginning of your speech when you said that museums were now open for the weekend on Saturday. I really have to commend and congratulate you here, and I have visited some of them myself, especially in Cyprus, because I am Koprčan. I think that this was a one-time action and that we would still be using such actions and it would be better if we talked about this action today than if we were talking about such things that land in the paper. So I ask you again, and I conclude, maybe this is a question or my concern: I ask that, when you talk to the Government about division and jurisdiction, you advocate that Soline remain what they are, and that their path continues as it has been so far. Everything else is safe, but if it gets ruined, unfortunately there's no going back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u162	I will also take this opportunity to congratulate Koper or the entire coastal area, which had very nice activities on Saturday, where, unfortunately, I was not present, but I am particularly sorry for Mr Cvet Marsic's exhibition in Solina, which is one of the better and interesting projects that I believe will also be reflected in the world. The bride's treatment. It could be difficult to say that it is a matter of unknown conduct in the entire complex, a very wide complex of Sečovlje salts, both from the point of view of the city or maritime museum or from the point of view of the partner operating in this area — d.o.o. of the salts themselves. It is true that a complex, binding management plan that will take us all away, how it will resolve in the season by collecting tickets, how it will end with the division of responsibility, etc., finally with this distress that arises every year, at least after my experiences, because there will be a regime of responsibility, care for cultural heritage. The Ministry of Culture will absolutely continue to be with you. It is true, however, that there are a number of activities here that are linked both to water regulation, to acquisition – in the end, the Mining Act is somehow touching these activities – as well as many other activities that are not closely related to those concerns that only the Ministry of Culture has when it comes to the museum area of each museum. This is broad and we are talking about several segments, which is why the Ministry of Environment and Space is an important factor. From the point of view of the preservation of cultural heritage, conditions and financing, of course, the unequivocal Ministry of Culture, which has worked hard. This mistrust that you spoke of today: it is always; we are all somehow wounded when we know that it is not an objective truth on the plate, but it is one or another. We, like museums, like other people or organizations. It is therefore important to remove the doubts that are eating away the institution itself and the employees, eliminate and tell the truth that must be determined by those responsible for the institution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u163	Mag. Majda Potter will also ask Mrs Majda Shirca's question to the Minister for Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, Member and Members of Parliament! I do not intend to go through a quarter of a century of long story on plans for the construction of the National and University Library, because then it would probably be more of a matter for the Ministry of Higher Education, but, however, if I refer to the National Programme for Culture 2008–2011, it is also written there, I quote: "Cultural policy will have to pay attention in the future to the problems of the National Library and solve them. These problems are of a threefold nature: spatial distress, lack of personnel, increasing number of digital publications." I will not now quote directly from the National Programme, but also from the National Programme for Culture, the Ministry of Higher Education is responsible for the implementation of the National and University Library 2 programme, as it is said. The fact is that at the end of 2009 the Government repealed all the contracts and annexes that have existed so far by the individual departments of the Government and the Municipality of Ljubljana; but now there is an interesting detail in this story that there is also an idea of how about 70 million worth of the project should be financed after the new one. Here, the Minister would also like to ask you: How do you see the search for a solution to the spatial distress of the National and University Libraries? How do you assess the proposal to provide funds for the construction of new premises from the collected book tax? Or perhaps it would be particularly interesting to hear: How do you think this will affect your efforts so far to pay zero book tax? This seems interesting to me because everything related to the book enters the newly established book agency is a whole series of other issues, and so you are also joining that working group that the Minister of Higher Education has appointed as the Ministry of Higher Education, Culture and Finance to find the appropriate funds for Nuk 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u166	Dear Member, I will not be passing this 25-year-old history myself, when, for example, I will not say, a stone has fallen, but a desire has fallen and activities have also begun around the construction of Nuk 1. After all, both of us could stop at the time of chapter 2008 when we supported the law right in the National Assembly – 2004, pardon – where Members and Members of Parliament wanted the state to use the credit at that time so that Nuk would be created, and in the times of the fat cows, but they somehow refused us, and now the questions about construction were raised by the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, much harder. However, I must point out that I think the decision of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is very appropriate when it cut through the previous solution, which did not correspond to time, perhaps not to anything else, and went on a new path, which means otherwise, not only architecturally, but above all substantively and specifically building. That's not what we're gonna talk about. But I am going to your question, which is meaningful and given your very good knowledge of all circumstances – quite directly to the answer. The possibility that Nuk could build from the so-called euro from a book does not seem inappropriate to me, but if it contributes to the fast construction that is supposed to take place around 2013 – documentation, architectural competition and so on – and ends 2015, it is not bad. This option is also not bad because, at least now, in the current government, the Minister of Finance has recognized it as appropriate in our numerous talks on the zero rate of book tax. This means that if it were, because it was still one of the many options that was given — I am a member of the group — they could also be cohesion funds, it could be another arrangement, but it can also be this option. Why do I say it can be real? On the one hand, it was welcomed by the public space – if I talk about the society of writers, if I talk about JAK, it is said to the Public Agency for the Book – in this case when the book would actually go back to the tax that the state is collecting. This has never been clearly calculated, even today we are talking about the thumb or the mind when we are talking about about about about 18 million. And if a piece of this, I'm talking about a piece, I'm going to go to the book house, but at the same time, I'm also going to realize those desires that were once given to get back to the book -- that is, the press, the publishing, the author's fees, and so on -- it wouldn't be bad, it wouldn't be bad. This is essentially a different answer than it would have if we had recognised the possibility of a zero rate of book tax, which, of course, was my initiative in the European Union and I continue to insist on. The only mistake of my plan – how would the European Union, or all the finance ministers, not the Ministers for Culture, the Ministers for Culture very much agree with this idea, but achieve this – is a process that is going on. The decision to allow for exceptional use in this area, because we know that the directive is clear and clear here. Each country should regulate its own tax as it knows, but must not be less than at least 5%. You can come up with a third level, you can do anything, but you need to change the regulation of European law, let's say. And this process and this desire must not be halted – I am always re-emphasized, recently also with the great support of Minister Mitterrand, the French cultural minister – but will continue because processing must take place through all countries. And if one of them doesn't agree, then the project goes down. So to think in parallel that the money from the budget is coming back here, either to Nuk or even to the book, is good, especially if the Minister of Finance, who has already given support for the zero level, seemed very nice and brave.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you, Madam Minister, for this part of the answer. But there's one other thing I'd like to give you some thought. True, some law on tolar or euro has proved to be successful. For example, we know how many school spaces have been built from the school tolar, and there has been a lot of talk about road tolar, and now we know about the cultural euro. But the problem with these laws is always the issue of providing funds and the extent to which funds are used. And when I listened to you specifically, there is also not all that is, from VAT on the book, for example, that this is 18 million, you yourself think that part of this would go to the book house, but part of it would go back to the book, is the question of how far this would go again, which would only be: in 2015 the possibility of using new spaces of the National and University Library 2. I'm afraid it's more on the principle that the wolf is full and the goat is whole, but in fact neither of the two partners has the full resources, which I would expect, given that we're counting on what the resources are available for the book, and how, for example, in these projects that are now at the world's capital of the book have proved to be extremely beneficial. If funds are found for a cheap book, then the book will also find readers. These are all the things that are being asked me as a question on this point, which, of course, may be a good idea, and the question is whether it will also bring the effects that are expected in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you. Your Honor, I agree with you. A cultural tolar, for example, is now that we have a rebalance, a victim of rebalancing and implementation, right now. Because of what is an investment – at least in the field of culture, also in Europe, unfortunately – is the one that, when it is necessary to seal the belt, is the victim, because it is a smaller cut in living tissue than when we are talking about investing in human beings, in their safety and in their artistic program. Here it is worth stressing that the Ministry of Higher Education has some major investments ahead of it. This investment has been prepared very thoroughly, it will be enough to make some changes and, I understand, after the University of Medicine building, these two projects are called Nuk 2 and the Academy – art, music and also theatre or television – the main priorities. These are the projects that this country must carry out in order not to embarrass itself. We hope that one of the scenarios where they have set their options, I think that cohesion funds, if they are properly negotiated after 2013, will be more appropriate or more secure than the euro, if we think as you think, when it comes to taking care of the rebalans every year. For example, this year's tragedy is that even in European funds, we get caught up in a rebalancing process. This is how we want a good project path, which now has some freshness and has a lot of attention, after all, it is an international competition. They've saved a lot of traps that have been dangerous so far from withdrawing the building, so that no cave like the one we had at the opera in the building itself could happen: in short, they put the plans in a slightly different way. I myself welcome the efforts that I will continue to support, at any time and anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the question of a letter to the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Minister, you probably remember precisely in 2003, when the so-called criminal reform was adopted. It lasted two years until then, in practice, it also came into force on 1 January 2005. The essence of this reform is — in what? Judges for offences were abolished and much more, at least as I recall, around 90% of all decisions for offences fell on the so-called criminal authorities. Among them, for example, in the police force, it required a real little mini reform. Today at each police station is at least one or even more assistants of the commander who deal with crimes. The aim of that reform was very clear: to relieve the judiciary in order to enable the judiciary to deal with the most serious violations, whether they are complaints or more difficult to deal with incriminating authorities. In 2006, I think it was, or even in 2005, but I think 2006 has even been introduced. In Slovenia, we have forgiven hundreds of thousands of offences because no one in this country has been able to do so easily. But for me, everything would still be fine if the goal were achieved. This is that the criminal authorities should do their job, while the courts, in the part where they judge offences, as well. But more importantly, this court case. Whether this part of the court works today or not. Not according to my information. So I'm actually asking you what I've also announced in the parliamentary question: What about the relative and absolute statute of limitations in 2009? So how many are there? What about the relative and absolute statute of limitations in 2010? In my opinion, or according to my data, it is again a very large number, which, by the way – see what this is about? So, if you're driving drunk today, then you've got a good chance that things will get old. But if you're driving without a seat belt today, you don't really have a chance, because it's the police doing these procedures relatively quickly, of course, given the numbers they are when they're getting older – I suppose you have them with you. I'm asking you: What did President Masles do to keep those backlogs from collapsing? He's been there for six months or more. And finally: What did you do to keep those backlogs from collapsing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! Your Honor! As regards the limitation of offences, I should first say that, as is known, in accordance with Article 42 of the current law, the infringement procedure is no longer admissible if two years have elapsed since the date on which the offence was committed. This is the case for most offences; only some in the field of protection and competition are subject to a five-year period. This period of obsolescence is assessed by the Ministry of Justice as an appropriate period, especially due to the gravity of these acts compared to, say, the limitation periods applicable to offences. With regard to the measurability in absolute numbers, I can say that I have requested this information from the Supreme Court, which provided me with data for 2010, for 2009, because of the short period of time, we were unable to collect this, because the issue dealt separately with absolute and relative obsolescences. However, the annual statistics of the Ministry of Justice, which is also published on the websites, also show the extent of these arrears for 2009. And to avoid wasting our precious time, I suggest you take a look at this website. With regard to 2010, a total of a thousand 428 cases have been obsolete by the Supreme Court, i.e. I am talking about offences. Of these, a thousand are absolute and 428 are relatively obsolete. The problem of this statute of limitations, as you yourself have mentioned, has been so great in the previous term that, among other things, your government has decided to commit the abolition of the abolition of more than 150 000 perpetrators of any persecution. These figures of obsolescence that we are talking about are still not ideal. And precisely because they are not ideal, certain measures have been taken. Some have been accepted by the Supreme Court, including under the leadership of the new President, Mr Masles, some by the Ministry of Justice. Now let's see what we've done together. First, they reviewed this scope of the case in the individual courts and then on a case-by-case basis. Judges had to report on the reasons and, on the basis of these reports, where it turned out that the reasons were not objective in nature, these data had to be entered in the personal files of the judges. Why is that important? Because it affects another judge's career. In the event that this would not be the case, it is in particular the Presidents of the higher courts who then record this information in the personnel files of the Presidents of the Courts. The Presidents of the Courts are especially responsible for the speedy trial and for respect for the order, including for preventing obsolescence. And that's what President Maslesha had specifically warned them at the special meeting they had. Furthermore, in those courts, since the number of these obsolete cases of misdemeanours has turned out to deviate from the average, official controls on the work of judges have been determined. In the context of these official controls, the inaccessibility of defendants has been shown as the most common reason for the delay. This is logical because it is a series of offences of such nature that foreigners who then leave our country do. And as far as the issue of judicial protection, which has been referred by the reform to regular courts, we have not abolished the judges for offences, but have in some way reclassified them to regular judges, and they are now judges in district courts, as well as in higher courts. Therefore, in the case of non-availability, this is an objective reason for the limitation and has no effect on the court, particularly when it cannot reach the availability of all available legal remedies available to the court. However, I am also at the meeting of the Presidents of the Courts and with the President of the Council of Justice, and this was particularly a reminder on 7 April 2010, that the measures adopted by the National Assembly should be used to a greater extent, namely to transfer cases from less burdened courts to more burdensome courts or to transfer judges from these courts to those in need of assistance. Well, this measure has produced quite good results lately. Since I am running out of time, I will then be able to explain some things in the supplementary response I am expecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much. That's right, a thousand 428. Here's a list, Mr. Secretary, here's a list of these thousands of 428. In doing so, it is indeed necessary to pay particular attention in my view to the transfer under Article 105.a. Part of these violations have been committed, as you know, and to prosecute those judges who got it 14 days before they got it, probably not smart, but those who have kept it in drawers for so long. More specifically, this surveillance is, in my view, still necessary. Look, inside of this, you have one of the biggest numbers in Domžalí, 94. I doubt that's excusable. Lendava – you won't believe it! - 145 lags. And Lendava is not terribly burdened by the courts. Let's say that Maribor with 238, Murska Sobota – one of the biggest delays in the country, Ptuj – is one of the far-reaching outstretches in the state of 189 cases and so on and so on. In general, I'd say the following, Mr. Secretary. I can believe what you are saying, that you will oversee Mr Maslesha's warning and warning and so on and so forth: but nothing happens! You're here, and you're gonna leave, and it's gonna be the same situation. In my opinion, therefore, more fundamental interventions are needed in the judiciary. More rooting interventions against people who don't work. Not all judges are the same. I'm sure you don't. But you can see by these numbers here, for example, that you have on the other side of the court, which are relatively very large, and they have 3, 4 years old, which I allow to happen, but you can't allow a situation like that in Lendava, Murski Sobota, like Ptuj and so on. In short, I expect significantly more effective measures. Since I will not propose a debate on this subject, I expect you to either introduce or introduce more effective measures against judges, not just a warning because they do not depend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. In fact, I agree with you, Mr. Gorenak. I think that some of the measures in the past have not been fully exploited and also those relating to the supervision of the work of the judge, particularly when it comes to the making of an assessment of the judicial service. Our ministry has requested all the personal councils of the higher courts, as well as the Supreme Court, to take into account the fact that a judge has a history of obsolescence. Here we got different answers. Some of the answers went in this direction to take this into account, but that, of course, depends on whether the staff records contain data on these deficits. Therefore, at the Ministry of Justice, we asked the Supreme Court to adjust the computer program for these registers, where violations are recorded, and the Supreme Court assured us that this is ready, that this will be done, and the essence of this programme is that the computer will automatically show information all the time when a case is outdated – regardless of whether it came yesterday and will then expire in two years – and that the computer will then alert the judge and the President of the Court to the approximation of this statute. At the same time, of course, this allows the President of the Court to constantly review these matters and then to react more quickly. I think that this can make an important contribution to the fact that then the personal councils and the Council of Justice, which, among other things, has an important competence in this regard, will act in a manner that takes account of these data where the reasons for limitation on the part of the judges or the courts as such are within the framework of the legal criterion, which is the criterion set out in Article 29 of the Judicial Service Act. There's something else we've done about it. We have amended the Law on Offences with the Last New Year, adopted it by the National Assembly, so that we have prevented any excess in those criminal cases where crimes could also have signs of crime and where it is usually waiting first for a decision on what will happen with the criminal procedure, and then, if it turns out that it is not a crime, the procedure continues as an offence, and in the meantime the limitation period runs. We've stopped it now. This statute of limitations is no longer in progress. So there is something at the normative level, what the Government can do, what the Ministry of Justice can do, and something in the judicial sphere, and this is a shared responsibility on the one hand between the Presidents of all courts, the Personal Councils of all courts and the Council of Justice as a sui generis to the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you. And now, as the last one, Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnić, who apologized and is absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am asking the absent minister or, in fact, I am repeating two questions that I have already asked several times, and lastly, I think that a good half a year ago. I would say that the commitments made within the EU also impose a great deal of activity on Slovenia in the restructuring of energy policy with the aim of substantially increasing the use of renewable energy. I certainly belong to water, solar and wind energy, among others, which are not interesting for Slovenia. In addition to the use of Slovenian rivers, the so-called small hydroelectric power plant is essential. The interest among investors is great in this respect for suitable small and medium-sized watercourses, but unfortunately it is complicated in procedures, particularly at the ILO, where the Directorate’s human resources sub-nutrition, which is responsible for this task, is the main reason. As a result, some or all of the procedures in this regard have been virtually intact for several years. I've warned you about this a number of times. Finally, in December 2010, when I asked the question. In response, the Minister said that there were 200 outstanding applications in the area of small power plants and that they would strengthen the staff force at the Directorate of the Environment at the ILO, so that the procedures would begin at all. That's why I want to know: Have new experts been hired or transferred to the ILO to conduct these procedures? How many employees of public servants are running the procedures for granting concessions to small hydropower plants? And: How many of these 200 outstanding deposits have been resolved in the meantime? Six months ago, I also asked the Minister of Environment and Space about the colour pollution of Slovenia's landscape, in particular the form of shiny and intrusive colors of facades or built environment. In response to my question, the Minister said that the conditions governing the appearance of settlements laid down in the municipal spatial acts are the responsibility of the municipality to control the implementation of those acts and that the existing spatial legislation does not specify anywhere the limits for the preservation of identifiable characteristics, but in particular the use of certain colours. I agree that the establishment of municipal spatial plans is within the competence of the municipalities, but the ILO also has a key word for this validation. However, there are certain changes to spatial legislation that would require an expert assessment of the colors of facades in buildings and which the Minister also confirmed in his reply to my question as stated on 14 December 2010. I'm asking: What about these changes in spatial legislation today, given that the situation on the ground is getting worse? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-21-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you. Would you like me to give you an oral response at the next meeting? Yeah. This is said, as you wish, I will be asked by the Minister to give an oral answer to your question at the next meeting. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on June 22nd, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I'm adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day.
