ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole by 12 noon, mag. Andrea Richter, Dušan Kumer by 3 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 4 p.m. and Zvonko Černač. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. POSITION OF THE DAY’S LINE, THIS IS FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT LAW ON THE SLOVENIA TRAINING SOCIETY BY AN EXTRACTING PROCEDURE: A proposal for a law has been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. There's no Minister of Transport yet? Has he been informed he's coming? Please ask, because now it's 9:00. Mr. Secretary, we've begun your agenda. Here you go. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me a few more words about this provision that we have adopted in the Government and sent to the National Assembly. The main objective of the regulation or addition of the Slovenian Railways Act is to pay the claim and thus to enable it to be transformed or set up dependent companies which are expected to be recently adopted by the Slovenian Railway Company Act. When doing business of Slovenske železnice d.o.o. between 1993 and 1999, in relation to the activities of infrastructure and transport activities, there was a mutual formation of claims or liabilities. As noted by the audit of KPMG or the Institute of Management Accounting, it is 31 12. In 1999, prior to the removal of the infrastructure from Slovenske železnica, the claim for transport activities on infrastructure activities revalued on day 1. 1. 2010, amounted to € 134 million,261 thousand,600. When the infrastructure was eliminated, the claim was deleted or the infrastructure was decommissioned. This action has also set aside the claim that the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner of the infrastructure to which the transfer of ownership of the infrastructure actually exists, must also recognise and pay. The Republic of Slovenia will be the company of Slovenske železnice d.o.o. claims paid between 2012 and 2016 in amounts, annual, amounting to EUR 26 million 852 thousand 320. The maturity dates for individual years following this proposal shall be determined by a contract concluded by the Slovenian Railways d.o.o. and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this contract must be concluded no later than 60 days after the entry into force of this Act. Recognition of the claim means an adequate and fair balance sheet and allows the company to develop and flow into the law of the envisaged activities in accordance with the envisaged timetable. Otherwise, the company will be Slovenske železnice d.o.o. the non-implementation of the provisions of the law which entered into force 11. 1. 2011. I would not add anything else in the introduction, and I would later discuss it if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on behalf of the Transport Committee! At its 19th urgent meeting, on 11 and 18 May, the Transport Committee considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the company of Slovenske železnica. The law was sent to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal to deal with it as a matter of urgency. The College of the President of the National Assembly has taken this decision to deal with it on an urgent basis. Later, a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the decision of the College be decided by the National Assembly. At its 28th meeting, the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. At the meeting of the Committee itself, Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, said in his opening statement that in the course of the operation of the Slovenian Railways, between 1993 and 1999, there was a relationship between the activities of the infrastructure and the activities of transport to the mutual formation of claims or obligations. On day 31. 12. In 1999, prior to the removal of the infrastructure from the assets of the Slovenian Railways, the claim for the activity of transport to infrastructure activities, as the audit concludes, amounted to EUR 134 million 261 000 600. At the time of the liquidation of the public railway infrastructure, that claim was cancelled or the infrastructure was decommissioned. This act has been used to write off the claim that the Republic of Slovenia, as owner of the public railway infrastructure to which the transfer of ownership claim actually exists, must recognise and pay. The law has also reviewed the Law-Legal Service and has pointed out that, given the conceptual understanding of individual terms, it may be possible to obtain an impression or concerns as to whether these legal solutions do not constitute unlawful State aid. The bill was also addressed by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, which supports the bill. It is agreed that the bankruptcy of the Slovenian Railway company would not have had a positive effect, as the Republic of Slovenia would be obliged to pay the obligations of Slovenian Railways in the amount of around EUR 270 million, and many people would have lost their jobs, and consequently the bankruptcy of subsidiaries, the negative impact on business partnerships and, of course, even social unrest. The proposal of the Slovenian Railways to establish a unilateral claim to the State is considered to be the only possible proposal to resolve the problem of its capital adequacy. In the context of the debate on Article 1 of the bill, the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group felt that the urgent procedure for examining the bill was not necessary, since it was claims that had already been made in the past and should have been known about them before. He replied to these concerns by a representative of the Slovenian Railway Company and explained that the need for recognition of the claim is high because it has a direct impact on the balance sheet in 2010 and thus has a direct impact on the implementation of the Slovenian Railway Company Act. No amendments have been tabled to the bill itself on the Committee, so that the Committee has adopted both articles of the draft law and so the law is also transmitted to the National Assembly for today's consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good morning, everyone! Perhaps the Minister has briefly completed the draft law in the introduction, and I will try to hold this in such a way that I simply say that we will support this bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. For a long time, Slovenian railways have been given different, more or less thorough reflections on how they should be organised to ensure a sound economic base and that they can provide quality services both in passenger and freight transport and in the provision, rehabilitation and maintenance of rail infrastructure. It has to be admitted that so far we have not been very successful in this, and if I make a little joke, by the way, if you ask someone, "what do you think first, when I say Slovenian Railways", I would probably answer, "high wages of trade unionists" and not possibly quality service of Slovenian Railways. But this last reorganisation, which envisions holding organisation with three subsidiaries, has come to the fore again because of the capital inadequacy of one of the subsidiaries, and the government has sought and offered a solution to this problem in the form that we now have before us. In our Group of Members, we agree that those obligations which have been identified and which have been changed throughout a series of strange decisions have to be recognised because the owner of the Slovenian State of infrastructure is also the owner of and is obliged to comply with these obligations from this property. We will therefore support this law because it allows for the implementation of the law on Slovenian Railways, which is otherwise organised and because we hope it prevents the most black scenario that has also been announced if we do not accept this law that even bankruptcy and the unforeseeable consequences for transport are possible if this actually happened. So our votes for this law are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Society of Slovenian Railways. Although this is a serious obligation, €134 million 261 000 600, but the law also introduces a circular settlement of these obligations, so that the commitments will be settled from 2012 to 2016 in the amount of €26 million 852 000, which we certainly hope will be manageable for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia during this period. Especially from the fact that we are aware of how extremely important the system is to the Slovenian Railways and, in particular, to the development of the economy, especially Luke Koper, which is certainly one of our most important companies. The good functioning of Slovenian railways also means a good opportunity to operate this window into the world, as we like to call it. In particular, due to the development of the economy and the stable development of Slovenia, we believe that this law should be adopted and that Slovenian railways should be allowed to justify the contribution of these funds by their business policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u10	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Director of the Directorate for Railways, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will support the Act supplementing the Slovenian Railway Company Act for two reasons. First, because the audit house pointed out these claims and this is supported by other expert opinions, secondly because they are in fact old claims that have indeed occurred some time ago, when Slovenian railways really acted as a single company in the sense that it was also possible to transfer funds from the generated revenue of freight transport into infrastructure, which the state should take care of. So it is certainly about helping Slovenian railways, helping the system, which, in our hope, will also benefit society. However, we have, of course, proposed in our parliamentary group instead of an urgent regular procedure. For these reasons, however, these claims have been made some time ago, and perhaps in the regular procedure we could look at other claims or events that have also affected the deterioration of the system of Slovenian Railways in the past. In fact, already the first Law on Slovenian Railways, which separated public railway infrastructure and Slovenske railways, has divided several plots by falling under public railway infrastructure and some under Slovenian railways. Were these lands really distributed as stipulated by the law, or were the lands likely to be impoverished by the Slovenian Railways? Surely, the fact that railway stations are part of public railway infrastructure is also a unique and additional disadvantage to the system of Slovenian railways. In short, we don't know how the story with Istrian railways sometimes fell apart under the system of Slovenian railways. In short, questions about the past and what more claims could be that have weakened the system could probably be clarified in such a regular process. However, this proposal, which, of course, as the Director of the Slovenian Railways said on the Transport Committee, will help to make at least Slovenian bookkeeping railways solvent with this recognised claim and to keep looking. Of course, we are interested in this future. The strategic partner who was promised to help Slovenian railways is obviously back in Berlin. However, we believe that Slovenian railways for themselves cannot survive in this geotransport area in the long term, and it will probably be necessary to get an answer very quickly, what will be the future of Slovenian railways, what their strategic directions will be, what their connections will be in advance, to really transform them into modern railways of the 21st century. As we say, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the law. Even more, we would like many or at least several of these uniform assessments and positions in the presentation. virtually all parliamentary groups will obviously support this bill because the proposal is based on financial and legal credible foundations, facts: that this is due to the division before 2000 when these claims were made – otherwise because of the level of this obligation or the claim on the other hand they would not want in these difficult times, but the matter must be settled in the interests of the Slovenian Railways – that this is what the Auditor’s House has pointed out in its review of the business, that both on the Transport Committee and on the Committee on Local Self-Government has also confirmed and given a positive opinion, and in particular that the obligation is also envisaged to settle after meals from 2012 to 2016, which will allow the work on Slovenian Railways to continue in the trend of these positive results, which are better than in the past, and that in the event of non-adoption of this law, it would also make it very difficult to speak of additional developments. So, in the Group of Members, we will really support this proposal of the law unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! After consideration by the Committee on Transport, we re-examined the proposal for a law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliament, which means an increase in the country's debt for an additional 134.3m euros, which would mean an increase of 5.9% of the gross domestic product. Therefore, we will not support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The State budget cannot be a convenient cash register to direct funds from one of the companies. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are expected to explain before the adoption of the law what such financial assistance means for the state budget, where the Government will take these funds, whether it will be at the expense of such wasteful state roads and road safety. What does it mean for a sovereign debt that should be halved to 3% and not further increased in line with the European Union's requirements? What will be the consequences for the country of such unlawful aid from one of the companies of the European financial institutions? Additional arguments are also: the fact that the State has already given the railway €136 million for restructuring, which it has not done and still lives comfortably on a state nursery, is also a fact that the National Assembly cannot accept the obligation to accept the damage to the budget for reasons that would result in damage to one of the companies, even though it is owned by the State, even for a debt that is actually due from 1982 to 1993. The law does not provide for the intentional use of funds, but should only provide that, as a rule, the funds will be intended to repay those debts directly linked to the State guarantee. The incomplete and vague explanation of the law without an explanation of the source of the funds to be poured out of the budget gives an even more dubious picture of the fact that the financial public, and perhaps even the Minister of Finance, do not favour such a solution. Last December, at the time of the adoption of the law, the members of the Slovenian People's Party made it clear that the current indebtedness of Slovenian Railways, about 375 million euros, would not be resolved simply by the transformation of society. In view of the various views of Slovenske železnice d.o.o. and the Directorates for Investment in Public Railway Infrastructure on the proposed solutions when adopting the Rail Transport Act, we have also tabled some amendments to enable them to effectively implement the law and improve the performance of companies and subsidiaries. We have noted that it is not clear what will be the consequences of the other changes, particularly the amended definitions in Article 2, which constitute a step backwards in the sense of public service delivery. While certain provisions of the law have improved with the adoption of additions to the Committee, the basic dilemma remains with regard to the law. And it is obvious that we were still right if we have a proposal for amendments already in Parliament, because society cannot start doing business. A few months ago, I asked the Minister of Transport about the implementation of the law and about the establishment of a company and the safety of employees and about the European means of restructuring. In a very patronizing tone, the Minister has tried to explain to me that everything is going in accordance with the law adopted and that there is no problem in implementing the changes before the deadline and ensuring transparency in the use of funds. What about today? Soon the deadlines for law enforcement will expire, and the Minister will come before us with an excuse of the necessity of a financial injection by the company. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not participate in these actions and therefore we will not support the law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot support such an easy allocation of budgetary resources, given that the same government is reducing and abolishing the already acquired social rights of citizens such as state pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge with a co-worker, colleague and colleague. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on the Slovenian Railway Company, which will compensate the railway carrier for the claims arising from the liquidation of the public railway infrastructure and its transfer to the country in 2000. Claims of €134.26 million will be paid out of the budget over the next five years, after 26.8 million per year. Thus, the country will pay the Slovenian Railways 26.8 million euros per year between 2012 and 2016. The applicant argues that the money is not intended to rescue Slovenian railways, but it will allow for the capital adequacy of the company. In 1993, the division of the assets of the then company, the predecessors of the Slovenian Railways, was carried out on infrastructure and transport activities. Later, over the period between 1983 and 1992, overexpenditures were found to have been used to depreciate over-designed assets and an obligation to transport or claim for infrastructure amounting to 21.4 billion tolars was created on 31 December 1999. As of 1 January 2000, the infrastructure activity had been excluded from the Slovenian Railway Company and the claim had been cancelled, but the auditors found that the company had been deprived. The claim will thus be settled by the State from the budget and, according to the applicant, the planned conversion of the Slovenian Railways into holding would be possible. And, as we say, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government states in the grounds for the adoption of the law on the company of Slovenske Slovenske železnica that the law in question should be adopted by means of an urgent procedure, since the Act on the company of Slovenske Slovenske železnica entered into force on 11 January 2011 and that from that date the deadlines for the adoption of the partial plan for the harmonisation of the act of the company of Slovenske železnice and for the entry into force of the operation of the subsidiaries are beginning. We've already exceeded one of those deadlines. It is true that the law entered into force on 11 January 2011, but it was adopted earlier. And if the Government is not able to prepare the necessary new rules immediately after the adoption of the law and submit them to the procedure, then these are not the reasons for the urgent procedure and infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As the Legislative and Legal Service warns, and as we believe in the Slovenian National Party, claims for hidden state aid are being paid. In fact, Slovenian railways should be bankrupt and a new, modern, well-managed and without political backgrounds and economic interests, a society with a capable administration should be created at the burning site. But if we do this at this point in time, we will still burden the budget, we will increase unemployment, we will also destroy freight traffic, and we will harm Luka Koper and any other society. Can we afford that? Probably not. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it would be wise and expected that those responsible for the future cycle will report on how this money will be spent, what has been achieved through its use, since the law does not specify the purpose of the use of funds. That we will not, as our government has always done, sit down again in six months and find that before bankruptcy, because the financial injection was not enough. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that today's allocations will really help improve the balance sheet situation of Slovenian Railways and will benefit from improvements in the competitiveness of this sector in 2012 and 2016. However, it would be nice for many employees in the Slovenian Railway Administration to reduce their own high wages and to help themselves to rationalise this unfortunate institution. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposed amendment of the law for and exclusively for the benefit of those workers who would lose no fault or duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister for Transport with a Fellow Member, Fellow Member, Fellow Members! It is in our strategic interest, and this has been said many times in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, to update the public rail infrastructure that is in poor condition as soon as possible, and that at the same time Slovenian railways, not only because of the crisis they are in, are transforming us into a modern one, according to the geographical location of Slovenia, the leading regional operator, who will carry out comprehensive transport and logistics activities. Unfortunately, decades have been lost in the development of the Slovenian railway system, which in a symbolic way also proves the law under consideration. Once, as soon as possible, the better, the more you have to go from words to actions. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we hope that this is happening right now with the implementation of a new law that must establish the holding organisation of the Slovenian Railways. However, this should regulate relations once and for all and establish net accounts within individual parts of the Slovenian Railways. The Dutch organisation must prevent the so far frequent practice of channelling funds between parts of the Slovenian Railways. It is precisely one such in the 1980s or 1990s in relation to the activities of infrastructure and the activities of traffic in the transfer of assets or the creation of claims or liabilities between us that we are correcting by this proposal of law. We must agree with the Minister of Transport's assessment that the payment of claims to the Slovenian Railway Company of approximately EUR 134 million, each year from 2012 to 2016 of EUR 26.8 million, constitutes an appropriate and fair divisional balance sheet which will provide Slovenian Railways with on the one hand such capital adequacy and enable them to continue reorganisation within legal time limits. The maturity dates for individual years will be determined by a contract concluded by the Slovenian Railways and by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also support the proposal of the law with the hope that the payment of this debt or assistance to Slovenian railways will conclude some strange, unhealthy and in the developed world an unknown relationship between the country and the railway system. Regulation of relations within the Slovenian Railway System, consistent business and market rehabilitation and proper, legally correct and accurate installation of Slovenian Railways as the manager of public railway infrastructure within the rail system, thereby regulating relations with the owner of railway infrastructure, are key conditions if we want to develop Slovenian Railways into a modern and leading regional railway operator. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we still believe that it is possible to do so, so we will support the bill as it is said.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the National Assembly, so I am concluding a second reading of the draft law, which we will decide today in accordance with the vote after the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the wine law after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr France Jurša. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers. Mr. Franz Jursha, would you like a word? Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have before us a decision to supplement the Wine Act. We would like to reiterate the incentives for amending the Wine Act by summarizing the facts that have led us to propose amendments. We sincerely want you to support the proposal and thus significantly improve the future position of the vineyards in the area of today's Ljutomer-Ormomer sub-region and allow the further development of wine growing in this area. Because of its uniqueness, Jerusalem’s wine - bearing environment clearly deserves legal protection. As early as November 8, this is a controversial date, wine growers and friends associated with Ljutomer sent me a letter desiring to change this law. At the time, the owners of the Lspoomeric and Omaric cellars were some others, not good owners, but now there was someone who was supposed to be a good owner and wanted the progress of winemaking and winemaking in this area, which some also called the feudal and other impeccable names. It is clear from the proposal that in 2006, when the applicable law was adopted, a general error was made and that the wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia was created more on the basis of economic weight or lobbying than on professional grounds. The definition of the environment is the same in both laws. The 2006 Wine Act only adds a barrier to the environment and nothing else. I believe that the difference between the surrounding Ljutomer-Ormož and the Prekmurje environment is smaller than the difference between the surrounding Ljutomer-Ormož and the surrounding Šmarje-Vrštanja, which belong to the same environment of Styria Slovenija. Traffic in wine was also saved in the old marriage just as it is now. Wines of geographical origin may, on the basis of an application under certain conditions, be kept out of the environment, but wine from different backgrounds must not be mixed, which should not have been done before, although this has been done. Now it's legal. The law, which once protected this wine-growing environment, has been in force for more than half a century, from 1952 to 2006, when it was amended. It is quite different on the coastal side because the environment has been preserved since 2006 and remains unchanged. Today we have a situation in this part of Slovenia where there is one large wine cellar in every environment. In particular: Slovenian Istria – Vinkoper, Vipavsko – Wine cellar Vipava, Kras – Vinkaras, Goriška Brda – Wine cellar Goriška Brda, Dobrovo, and nowhere to be said about the monopoly. This case proves that legislation has allowed for greater competitiveness and at the same time diversity, which is quite contrary to the belief that a change of law would lead to monopolisation. This opinion is misleading and misleading. For we know that wine growing in these areas in the past has evolved much better and better than at the end of Styria. Possible monopoly and price pressure by the Jerusalem P&F basement Ormož and Ljutomer to small vineyards, mentioned in fear of law, is also not a realistic scenario. Even before this initiative in 2009, when the basement was given a new owner, the company signed long-term contracts with the Ormož Agricultural Association for a period of 15 years, on the basis of which it provides more than 50 % of the purchase price for all vineyards in the area which they place their grapes in the cellar. On the basis of this contract price it is thus not possible to lower the price at all, so it can only be higher. On top of that, I can tell you that by 31 May 2011, the crop paid from the previous year, which is even possible a unique case in Slovenia. At the same time, the company also committed itself to buying grapes from this area alone. The fact that much changes in economic terms for the company in question does not hold serious judgment. It is, however, the fact that they gain the reputation and true application of the environment, especially all wine growers in the area. This area, which belongs to 5% of the world's best, has had its reputation throughout history, and it's time to get it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. The Committee's position will be presented by Vice-President Robert Hrovat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at its 30th session. 4. 2011 was treated as a parent working body by the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Wine. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has no comments on the proposal for a law, and of the opinion of the Government which supports the bill, but points out that the name of the wine-growing environment, which also contains the name of the State in the proposed case, does not, at the same time, comply with the requirement for a prescribed indication of the origin of the wine. The Committee also received written opinions from certain professional institutions. Most of their representatives also participated in the debate and the meeting of the Committee. All draft laws oppose and assess that the proposed amendment to the law is not well thought out. It makes it impossible to combine grapes from this area with grapes from other areas of Styria Slovenia. It causes unfair competition between the shareholders and impedes the individual basements and prefers a certain basement from this area. The representative of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, which is empowered under the Wine Law to produce an elaboratory on wine-growing areas of the Republic of Slovenia, pointed out in particular in the debate that the drafters did not present any professional argument to justify the adoption of the amendment of the law. The proposed designation undermines the accepted system and hierarchy of designations and may also involve misleading the consumer to a certain extent. He also drew attention to the provision of Article 3 of the Wine Act and Article 9 of the Regulation on the list of geographical indications for wines and reeds, which provide for the Minister to establish the limits of the production areas and to list them on the basis of an elaboratory on crop areas prepared by an authorised organisation. In the proposal for a law, no mention shall be made of either the Minister or the Laboratorate on the production areas or the authorised organisation. The President of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food explained in the debate that the proposed amendment to the law had been supported by the Commission, but also pointed out that a public debate should be held on the proposed solution in the context of wine growing areas. He also explained that, at the time of the consideration of the proposal, the Commission had not yet been informed of the written opinion of the Government, nor of the opinions or reservations of both the professions and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. In the supplementary explanation of the opinion of the Government, the Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan explained that the Government supported the bill, but the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food estimates that it is necessary to listen to the profession's opinion on such amendments. In a short discussion, some members of the Committee supported the proposed amendment to the current law, since in times of tight economic conditions any change that has positive effects on wine sales is welcome. In their view, the new law will ensure more efficient marketing and sale of wines from this area, which has a rich wine-producing tradition. However, some members of the Committee were of the opinion that, in view of the negative views and warnings of the professional public – in particular, the proposed solution means restricting the business of shareholders in the area of Styria Slovenija and the unjustified intervention in the competitive situation on the market – would, however, serve the benefit of all wine growers and winemakers in the area of Styria Slovenia on the proposed amendment of the law to a wider debate and not to rush into this law by adopting this law. In the light of the opinion of the expert institutions and the additional explanation of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Chairman of the Committee proposed that the Committee should, in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. The Committee voted on the proposal for a decision and did not adopt it. The Committee then proceeded to the vote on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Since amendments were not adopted to the draft law in second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Wine be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The oral position of the government will be presented by the mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u26	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Wine, which was tabled by the group of Members with the first signed France Jurša in the National Assembly on 17 March, is as follows: the group of Members in the bill proposes the establishment of a new wine-growing environment in Jerusalem Slovenia. The government considers that a proposal for a law could allow for greater visibility of the area, which is included in the wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia under the current regime, and consequently more effective marketing of wine from this area. With the establishment of a new wine-growing environment, it is without prejudice to the possibility of pooling crops from other areas of the existing wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia, while at the same time the Government warns that, in accordance with the applicable legislation in the new wine-growing environment, it will not be possible to combine grapes produced in this area with grapes grown in other areas of Styria Slovenia. Those representatives of grape growers and wines from that area have been informed, but they do not object to such arrangements. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would like to point out that the name of the wine-growing environment, which also contains the name of the country in the proposed case, does not, at the same time, comply with the requirement for a signed indication of the origin of the wine. The Council Regulation establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and laying down specific provisions for certain agricultural products as compulsory indications for the labelling of wines provides, inter alia, the name of the protected designation of origin — which is, as proposed by the law of Jerusalem Slovenia — as a designation of origin, in this case: produced in Slovenia. It follows that the name of the State will therefore have to appear twice on the labels. Finally, let me mention that the proposal does not prejudice the basic principles of the applicable Wine Act or alter other solutions to the provisions of the current regulation. With the adoption of the proposal for a law, the following two sub-legislative rules should be amended: the Regulation on the list of geographical indications for wines and reeds — in the work governing geographical indications of wine-growing areas and geographical indications of production areas smaller than wine-growing areas, and in the work governing the varieties of vines which may be planted in individual wine-growing environments — and another sub-legislative rule: the Regulation on labelling and packaging of wine — in a work allowing the use of trade marks as names for wine containing geographical indications. It follows from the above that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has supported the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much again for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were little surprised by the process of trying to change legislation in the field of wine-growing environments. The proposed changes following a rapid procedure change the composition of Slovenian wine-growing environments and consequently strongly affect the core identity of certain local communities, i.e. the tradition of wine-growing in the area of Ljutomersko-Ormoška gorica. The impact of the law not only narrows down the opportunities of Lzlomerian and Armenian winegrowers to perform on the market, but also affects the composition of the wider wine-growing environment of Štajerska. The adoption of this novel is a fine example of how legislation should not be adopted. It is unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend the law without the consent of local communities, without public debate, without professional grounds and without economic studies. Virtually all the professional public opposes the amendment of this law. This was the case with the Agricultural Institute, Agricultural Forestry Chamber, Biotechnical Faculty, Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences in Maribor, wine growers from the wine-growing environment of Štajerska and also local communities. At the very least, this amendment to the law should be dealt with on a regular basis, where the profession would also be involved in the examination. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a change could only be made on the basis of an elaboratory on the production areas prepared by the competent institution. The amendment of the wine law in 2006 took place for several years with the cooperation of experts and producers. The result was a compromise, we can say a good compromise, which has also removed a very large number of administrative obstacles. Three wine yields were maintained and the number of wine-growing environments decreased from 14 to 9. Now that we are amending this law, the professions and farmers were not even aware of this change, in the vast majority. It is interesting, however, that the Ministry of Agriculture also supports the adoption of this amendment to the Wine Act, despite opposition to the professions already mentioned. Since the amendment of the law is not in line with the current wine law, it is inconsistent and is not well thought out, we will vote against the Slovenian Democratic Party. Moreover, we are glad that those who have signed marriage agreements have also come to realize their error and that today, together with the vast majority of us, we will reject this unnecessary law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u30	Good afternoon. Hello, Vice-President, distinguished secretary, colleague and colleague! Under the proposed amendment to the Wine Act, we also signed four members of the Slovenian People's Party before the hearing, because we believed that it was a positive correction that did no harm to anyone and, most importantly, that it was fully coordinated with both the profession and all the winegrowers in the area. It soon turned out that far from being understood by most wine growers in the area, their petitions against changes of law have proved to be far away. The bill is also fully opposed by the Slovenian profession, as well as by both local communities, the municipality of Ljutomer and the municipality of Ormož, which were obviously not familiar with the proposal of the law in advance and expressed opposition to such a novelty in the law. And yet, the law is dealt with in a reduced procedure, without a broader debate, without a thorough confrontation of professional positions and without any professional basis or economic study. Although it is the wish of the proposer to remove the current wine-growing area Ljutomer-Ormož from the wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia and turn it into a separate wine-growing environment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party, after obtaining all the information, we withdrew our signatures from the proposed amendment of the law, as some other colleagues did, because we find that the law is opposed by both the Professional Society of Winegrowers and Winemakers of Slovenia, as well as the Agricultural Institute, which is responsible for preparing laboratories for the production of areas, as well as the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. The proposal is also opposed by the Slovenian Wine Company, which represents more than 50% of the public market in Slovenia. According to them, they only support companies in this area who have immediate benefits from the novel. The fragmentation of the Styria wine-growing environment is particularly unusual in the light of the fact that just a few years ago, the Styria winegrowers demanded that all wine-growing areas of the wine-growing country of Podravje be merged into the single wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia, precisely in order to be able to trade grapes and wine smoothly within this new environment, which proved to be a successful solution. The current proposal, however, rejects this concept, implying certain interests that things are being redesigned most favourably for those who are behind these interests. In 2006 the latest amendments to the Wine Act were adopted, which were the fruit of numerous coordinations, expert meetings and in which the National Assembly adopted a system-wide arrangement for the distribution of Slovenian wine-growing areas. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that there is no professional reason to limit the free movement of grapes and wines within the current wider environment, and thus to smaller producers, by means of such arrangements, to fully close the possibility of selling grapes to the remaining cellars in the present area of Styria Slovenia or only allow them to sell grapes for the production of country wine, which means a significantly lower selling price. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we appreciate the efforts of wine companies in this area, which have raised these two wine companies from the mountain and made a positive move in the field of wine-growing and wine-growing in the Loso-Ormoski work. We also appreciate the proposaler's efforts to ensure that the environment in question wants to restore its true validity and its former visibility, but we must be aware that this means an unacceptable intervention in the entire arrangements for the production of grapes and wine, both in this area and in Slovenia as a whole. However, all such movements must be professionally justified and also presented in a wider local environment, which has not happened in this case. The proposal for the novel Wine Law is not complete and is not considered, it is professionally nourished, it is written, we can say, on the skin of individual vineyarders, while many others can cause great business damage. It intervenes directly in the system-wide arrangements of wine-growing environments based on long-term studies and experience and research into soil, climate and other factors. Because of all this and the above facts, we will not support the Members of the Slovenian People's Party of the Law on Wine.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Wine Act. For the purpose of increasing the visibility of the area, more efficient wine marketing and thus better wine sales from the area, Slovenia is establishing its wine-growing environment. This will allow producers from this area to be labelled only with the name Jerusalem Slovenia, without the mandatory use of the name Styria Slovenija. On the other hand, it allows producers of the current wine-growing sub-area Ljutomer-Ommož to join and join the market under the auspices of the famous Jerusalem wine-growing area Slovenia. The bill is also without prejudice to the basic principles of law which are: protection of consumers and protection of producers of grapes and wines. Grapes, which will be combined under the name Jerusalem, Slovenia is grown in a smaller, precisely defined area, allowing better control of production, preventing unfair competition and allowing greater protection of origin. In our parliamentary group, we would like to highlight the surprise of the turbulent reaction launched by this proposal of the amendment to the Wine Act. Among other things, the proposal for a novelty supports the Society of Vineyards of Ljutomer, the Society of Vineyards and Friends of Ljutomer, the Jerusalem Salon, which brings together winegrowers from 20 areas, the Shipon Club and the Society of P&F Jerusalem Ormož and P&F Jerusalem Ljutomer. They are convinced that their environment, which accounts for 5% of the world's best wine-growing wine beds, deserves to be protected by a special law. These wine growers, representing 90% of all vineyard areas in the current sub-region, also believe that the common name of the Jerusalem area would enable Slovenia to be more recognizable to their wines, to promote and connect together. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with their assessment that the indications concerning the possible monopoly and price pressure by the Jerusalem Ormož P&F basement and the Ljutomer to small vineyards are not justified. Even before this initiative, in 2009, when the basement was given a new owner, the company signed a long-term contract with the Ormož Agricultural Association, on the basis of which it allows for more than 50 % of the purchase price to be paid to all farmers in the area that place their grapes in the cellar. It is true that changes in the law to certain cellars in the Styria Slovenia environment would result in certain restrictions on trade in grapes and wine. Today, the largest cellars in the area, hand to heart, are just wine merchants, and this is because virtually no one is paid to cultivate vineyards. The raw materials, usually grapes from our surrounding area, began to be purchased and subsequently abandoned by the cellars. At the same time, I cannot overlook the fact that the name Jerusalem is marketable not only in the field of wine but also abroad, so we can reasonably expect synergies in tourism as well. The name Styria is still much more recognizable abroad than the environment in neighbouring Austria and not Slovenia. As we say, we will support this bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Wine Act 2006 seeks to achieve a change in the definition of the wine-growing area, the number of which was first reduced, in accordance with the 1997 Wine Act, from 14 to 9 by the 2006 Act, and to 23 by means of sub-legislative acts of defined wine-growing sub-divisions. This novel interferes with the wine-growing environment of Štajerska Slovenija or in the wine-growing area of Ljutomer-Ormož, and it is a new definition or re-renamement in the Jerusalem area of Slovenia. As the applicant points out, the basic objective is to achieve greater visibility of the specific area, better marketing, sale of wine from this environment, by adding one comma and two words – Jerusalem Slovenia – to the text of Styria Slovenia in Article 8 of the Wine Act. At first glance, such a change sounds very simple, but unfortunately that is not the case. The fact is that under the Law on Wine and Other Products of Grapes and Wine and the Regulations issued under this Act, only the prescribed name of the production areas may be used for the labelling of geographical origin. Let me just remind you of the complications of 2002 when our Ministry of Agriculture banned the sale of its own premium wine at the invitation of the Austrian Ministry only because of the use of the term "Styria" on the label, which is the English translation and at the same time the historical name from the Roman times for identity is probably the undisputed Slovenian region, and so there is no basis for the German translation of "Steiermark". Of course, as usual, the Slovenian Ministry, with all its own, has now traditionally maintained maximum servility in relation to foreign authorities, accepted such a senseless request from the Austrians, which even relied on article 23 of the World Trade Organisation Agreement on Intellectual Rights in Trade – indeed absurd par excellence. In the Slovenian National Party, it would not surprise us to find any 'jodlar' ministry and, with any similar use of the term or brand 'Emona', try to prove that it was created as a translation from the word 'Laibach', and if a smart Israeli or Palestinian were to be found and apply similar claims through the World Trade Organisation's agreements on the use of the word 'Jerusalem'. If I return to the specific subject matter and to all the complications surrounding the proposal of the novel and the procedure itself; the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have supported and stated that representatives of Slovenian grape and wine growers have been informed of the proposed amendment of the law, and we are surprised why so many petitions of wine growers have not been held, why there has not been a public debate on the proposed solution in the context of the wine-growing environment, and in particular the majority's opinion that the novelty should not be considered after a reduced procedure. Finally, most importantly, all the comments mentioned at the expense of lack of professional arguments, studies and analyses are well founded, and we therefore believe that an elaboratory on production areas or on zonisation should also be drawn up in the first place, which will serve as an expert basis for decision-making. In short, we are convinced that in the party DeSUS, when they tabled such a proposal for amendments to the Wine Act, and in so doing, other Members were not in fact aware of what it could mean to define one of the sub-divisions for the whole concept of wine-growing in Podravje or in the area of Styria Slovenia and consequently everything to the detriment of the geographical protection of the area of Ljutomer-Ormož. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we reject such a proposal for a law and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u36	Your Honor! The amendment of this law is proof that legislation is not being prepared, is not being examined and is not being adopted in the National Assembly. It is not possible that things that are known in Slovenian can be referred to as those for more than a hundred years or over a thousand years, we are going with a quick hand instead of shaking, which should still apply to changing laws by emergency, fast, short or any procedure. It is more than obvious that this time every consultation with the profession has been left out, let alone deeper and broader than it should be, especially when it comes to traditional things, when it comes to things that are old, as I said, centuries and more. Only a few existing texts should be taken into account, there is no need to study mountain beeches, there is no need to study the various measures already taken by Austria-Hungarians and so on, in order to establish that the zoning with the notion of Styria was last introduced in Slovenia in 1904, and that the law later, in later years, took this arrangement into account precisely in historical, substantive and other borders. In order to determine an environment, there are studies, labs — on soil composition, on climate conditions, on climate, on species that can be planted in a particular area and so on — and in this case everything is missing. I believe that this barrier here, which has now arisen in the adoption of this law, in amending this law, has also been a warning in other things that only a good purpose is not enough. The proverb says that the path to hell is also pressured by good intentions and there is no way to bet that anything could contribute to the uplifting of one area. As is more or less clear, it is not now prohibited to market wine produced in the area of Jerusalem or in the region of Ljutomer-Ormo Mountains on labels and in sales with this designation. But when we are talking about changing the environment in the way it is set out, and that this interferes with the regulation itself and the interest of others I cannot get rid of the feeling that in 2000, 2006 we had debates in the National Assembly about when some could not understand that we had to accept the compromise "Stajerske Slovenije" because the Austrians did not allow the protection of this environment in Brussels in a way that they would have only had Styrian as they had for centuries, because they were protecting their Styersko, and so on. [[…]] Therefore, it is far too important to ask whether we could speed up sales or not. Sales are promoted by working, as Professor Šikovčev says, to work by law, to work by law, by professional grounds, and to deliver quality and good wine to consumers in the end. Certainly not by somehow trying to favor one of the areas. There was a lot written in these days, in a relatively short time. From both local communities — both Ormoža and Ljutomera — we have received writings, from professional associations, from interest associations, to the end of conscious individuals who do not want to go into speculation, which also circulate in the land of Styria, what is behind and what is supposed to be useful in this advocacy. I regret the position of the Government, which I will be pleased to study in writing to this extent, that I will also be able to explain whether there is anything possible on what I have just said. We're going to reject the law at the Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Sometimes they seem to say the most things we haven't heard. Even today, when I present the brief position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I present it in circumstances where two key expected views have not been heard. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u39	Mr. Jurša, you had an opportunity to explain your position. Now he has the word, Mr. Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Apart from what we have not heard, we have heard that the third coalition party does not strongly support this bill. I can say for unrelated Members that from the very beginning we have questioned whether, for the first time, the draft law was prepared as it should be. Secondly, whether the presentation to those who signed the bill was appropriate. And thirdly, is there a law behind this proposal, with the exception of some ambitions, including some professional behaviour and knowledge. Our belief that the bill and the whole process were flawed in this respect has increased from day to day as those who, of course, had some interest to come forward with these changes have come forward. The changes are not what the proponents would like to present – minor, insignificant and only good. Indeed, for some they would be good, for some they would be very good, but for some they have been overheared and released in the process all those who bring these negative consequences to them, and in particular it is interesting not to take into account what this means for Slovenia as a wine-growing country in general. So it was just one very narrow partial interest, which some were willing to follow for a while, but not later, so they withdrew their signatures when they studied for themselves. But more than being a witness to the withdrawal of signatures, it is convincing for a group of unrelated Members what the profession has said and what agricultural associations have said which are economically engaged in this activity. All of these are opposed, not only do they have a relationship of opposition to the proposal of the law, but they have a strong attitude of opposition to this proposal of the law. And also this determination is important, because through this determination you can see, for the first time, that it was completely out of line, and for the second time that the economic interests of some were completely forgotten because of the partial economic interests of others. Therefore, our support for this proposal cannot be expected. By the way, as many others have already warned, such an important substance is not a suitable procedure as it was chosen and should have a more decisive position on the part of the Government, according to our judgment. For the government’s position is changing, it supports, and today it has also been said that it supports; when we read the text in writing, that is, its written opinion, we can be quite uncertain whether it is serious when it says that the proposal supports the law. It is better that the draft opinion draws attention to the weaknesses that might occur if such a law is adopted. So I don't think we can talk about how we read the government's opinion more correctly than the government itself, but we can say that the opinion was such that it wasn't strong enough and that it didn't help in any way to make our decisions clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the draft law was not accepted by the labour force, it is not possible to table amendments at the National Assembly. We will decide on the law in accordance with the timing of the 27th meeting of the Assembly. Now I'm breaking up with this point. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, it's on the proposal of a law on supplements to the laws on economic societies in another defense. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of five Members with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. The Group of 37 Members and Members requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law in the context of the general debate, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The global financial and economic crisis in the field of economic law in the Republic of Slovenia has revealed many legal voids. These enabled a wide range of owners or members of the management of each company to exhaust companies directly involved in ethically controversial procedures, as well as subcontractors who were dependent on these companies. As a result, unemployment has skyrocketed. Many of these unemployed have lost their salaries, and in some cases they have not been paid social security contributions in years. Despite the fact that certain individuals who have been members of the management or control body of a company which has served such irregularities and which has led to bankruptcy, several criminal offences have already been brought before the competent courts, these same individuals may still have their property and establish new companies or companies. In most cases, new companies are set up to transfer healthy kernels from company projects to a new society, old companies remain in debt and creditors' claims. This, in relation to creditors, is more than controversial. The proposal for a law before us for persons who were shareholders, shareholders with a shareholding of more than 25 %, members of the management or supervisory authority of the company to which insolvency or forced termination proceedings were initiated or had such status in society two years before the commencement of insolvency proceedings or forcible termination provides for two types of restrictions. Firstly, such a person cannot become a founder, a partner, a member of the management or supervisory authority of another company. Secondly, such a person shall be removed from the seat of a member of the supervisory authority and shall be prohibited from exercising his or her voting rights in all companies where that person is the founder, member, shareholder, member of management or member of the supervisory authority of the company. The draft law imposes the so-called reverse burden of proof, since the above-mentioned persons will be subject to sanctions under the law itself, but can prove to the competent court in an unfair proceeding themselves that they did not influence or could not influence the operation of the company under investigation for insolvency or forcible termination or that they acted as a good master. Due to the anomalies that have occurred in Slovenian society and business and the lack of ethical values, it is essential that such restrictions be adopted in Slovenia's legal order. Unfortunately, we see that the solutions listed by the Government do not work. Either they are good, or the competent authorities do not implement them, or they are bad, insufficient and incomplete, nor does it matter. The fact is, they don't work, but they should. It is our responsibility, however, to return social relations to the right tracks and restore trust in the rule of law, where the same rules apply to all people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The government's position on the bill will be presented by the mag. Darja Radic, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered a proposal for amendments to the Law on Economic Companies and in this regard has taken a position, which I will present below. First of all, I would like to mention and say that we fully support and also understand the efforts of the proposed amendments to the Law on Economic Companies to find a solution in Slovenian legislation that would be more effective than ever to prevent the chain-based establishment of companies in order to cause various abuses in this way and, we will say, irregularities and fraud by certain individual entrepreneurs in our country. As I said, the very purpose of the law and the ambition to eliminate this anomaly, which undoubtedly appears and grows too much in our society, is absolutely right. From this point of view, the Government has no reservations. However, the fact is that if we look at only the text and articles of the proposed law, we note that this law, as it is prepared, with such content, is not suitable for further consideration or, in our opinion, it will have to be completed and completed if further consideration is to take place. And in this context, I would also like to say that, at the Ministry of Economy, we are prepared to cooperate with the proposer himself in the further process and thus to come up with solutions that will also be sustainable. What, in fact, is the greatest concern, or what are the greatest concerns we have regarding the proposed law? The fact is that the law is very extreme and complicates or restricts, in fact, the establishment of new companies in the Republic of Slovenia. However, given that we have a rather unusual situation, let’s say that such solutions as short-term solutions are somehow acceptable. However, the fact is, and I would like to point out that if we read this law and if this law is adopted, there may be a series of negative consequences that will be expressed mainly in the operations of those companies in which the State of Slovenia owns or co-owners, with a share of more than 25%. This is the main problem that we are concerned about and which needs to be carefully considered further before the adoption of the law in order not to do any harm with this change, especially in companies where, as I have already said, the state of ownership. For if we read the present law, what situations may arise? The fact is that the law provides that in the event of bankruptcy or bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings in a particular undertaking, owners, supervisory authorities, management shall lose all rights and their operational function. In case they are private companies, we also know that the owner is a person, a natural person, a legal person, too. In the event of ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, this means that the owner of the Republic of Slovenia loses all rights in all other companies in which he owns. For example, the loss of voting rights at a time until the court decides or those who have initiated bankruptcy find or prove to the court that they are not responsible for such misconduct. What does that mean? It means that if this law were to apply today because of the new Steklarska, which we know has gone bankrupt, the Republic of Slovenia today does not have any voting rights in any society until the court decides, and that is the problem. There are still some problems that I will put forward below, but I am sure that with additional dictions, the improvement of individual articles would also address these obstacles and the concerns we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u46	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we welcome and support the purpose of this law, and in the past, we have already tabled our own draft amendments to insolvency law with the same purpose, that is to say, limiting the chains of certain businesses and owners that are constantly coming out of the corrupt stories with the whole skin, while workers and creditors are not, of course, creating new and new businesses and that is not the end. This law has a similar purpose, so we welcome it and will also support it at first reading, because we believe that existing legislation needs to be upgraded. Of course, we need to have behaviour in economic legislation when we change it, that when we go into some kind of restrictiveity, we must not at the same time limit the free economic initiative on the side that can, after all, help us to revive the economy. Therefore, it is necessary to have selective solutions in such weighing to hit those who are intended for them, not other cases. I think that these solutions, as they are designed, are going in this direction, because this reverse burden of proof does not apply to all averages, but to those who cannot prove that they were not co-responsible. So, with these solutions, we try to change and limit the chain or some kind of allowing people who bring the company into bankruptcy or forced settlement, because of the tricks they know and who are also known by counselors who advise in these insolvency proceedings that they actually come out with even the skin. The most responsible come with all the skin out of these bankruptcys and forced settlementes, have capital and a basis for the establishment of another company and remain ruins for such companies, usually on the shoulders of workers and creditors. And these attempts to amend the legislation go in the direction that we want to do something in Parliament with restrictions that should be done by the courts. In fact, if the suspicions of abuse of the position or responsibilities of individuals — either management or owners — are justified in order to harm the society’s assets, including creditors, workers, then such people should go to the first degree in some relatively effective and short proceedings before the judge and experience, I do not know, in a half year, a judicial epilogue in one year. And if they were given some normal punishment for the damage they have caused, then they can no longer be in the most responsible places under the current legislation, because that is what the current legislation is preventing. Of course, because nothing happens because we have these so-called tycoons more than enough, not one final, but a legal court case against their responsibility and their abuses, but of course then there are attempts in this House to try how to legally limit it to us in order to do something, because we should probably do it in the judicial branch of power. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome this repeat attempt, and we hope that it will give birth to a solution. Finally, the Minister, if I have understood it correctly, in principle supports the solution to this problem, but does not support a concrete way of resolving this problem. In fact, she also mentioned some of the problems related to companies owned by the majority state and I think that this problem of companies owned by the majority of the state could be solved in another way that the formulation of the Company Act, "only for the sake of protecting state ownership", is not entirely appropriate, so I think that the further procedure of this law would allow for effective solutions, and that is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you. Your Honor! Proposers of the Complements of the Company Act were, unfortunately, able to work relatively when assessing the situation under assessment. The occurrence and densification of what is described by the expression of ethically controversial procedures is evident. It is not possible to overlook bankruptcys and forced settlements, transfers of assets and activities in at least disputed circumstances. You can't ignore workers without wages, discharges, reimbursements, damages. Unpaid social security contributions cannot be forgotten. In the background of these events and phenomena, both the proponents, there are legal gaps in economic law, which are further promoted by the global financial and economic crisis. The government in a large, high-quality text reports that the proposal, such as it is, with many shortcomings – I have counted the 10 key ones that are exposed – cannot support it. In cases of shortcomings, the Group of Members does not have reservations, agrees with them and will not repeat them. While the government does not deny the assessment of the situation and, as I have listened to the Minister today, it has confirmed this, but says that several standards are available in the current legislation, rules whose purpose is the same to the proposer. Let us recall: The Act on Economic Companies, the Law on the Court Register, the so-called Insolvency Act, and the Penal Code and the type of harmonisation made on the basis of the orientations of documents of the European Union that have reached into a highly sensitive area and regulate the possibilities that go, so to speak, "to an honest entrepreneur or private person when he is hit by bankruptcy". But then what is the problem? In what else is evident in the proposal – in implementation. What positive legislation offers, but is not used or cited: "The case law in this area is very modest or practically non-existent." Thus, we are witnessing, if I say so, the ignorant ignorant ignorant and the incredible tolerances of the judiciary and thus the low level of legal certainty of the weakest and most vulnerable stakeholders. Therefore, the debate and the attempt to verify and assess the possibility of changes for an open competitive economy with a reputation, of course, at first reading, we will not oppose it, we will undermine it. For we expect the benefits to be greater than damage, of course, by reasonable action. Let efforts be made on all sides to change what it represents if I use the term from the government text, too extreme an intervention. In the end, allow me a brief shift in favor of ethical imperative. In the last part of the famous film classics, the trilogy of the main protagonists finds that, despite all the power they possess, their world fell off course. "Honesty is a dangerous game," they shudder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you, again, for your word. In exactly one month we will all stand at such or other celebrations at the 20th anniversary of our country of the Republic of Slovenia. Surely we can be proud of what we have accomplished. Unfortunately, however, more and more respectable and respected people wonder whether we really wanted to achieve what we have today in our independence. Certainly not in all areas. And the area of economic crime, corruption and fraud is certainly one of these areas that we cannot be proud of after 20 years. I'm not saying with my finger on anyone. We are all, in one way or another, responsible for the situation we are in. Year after year the breakdown of moral values has led us to a situation where nothing is sacred anymore. When capital and power are only a means to achieve the goal and social responsibility has long become a meaningless concept that we have all forgotten. And then there are managers' acquisitions, disputed loans, the exhaustion of businesses, the non-payment of health and social contributions, and ultimately exploited and disgraced foreign and domestic workers, thrown on the road, without all rights and the hope that they will be paid for their hard work. I will not list specific companies and specific names of owners and directors. I don't think that's necessary. We all know what this is about, but I ask you: Who of these people at this moment bears the consequences of their perverse actions? Tell me the name of one of them! Is it bad for them? They don't have bills, food, kindergarten, school? Are any of them socially endangered? Of course they are, but not those who deserve it, but all the workers who have served these people. And what has our country done against it? Nothing, actually. These same people are laughing at us in a mustache from TV screens and literally all of us lunatics are shaving, as they call it, and they're predicting their big return to construction and some other scene, and we're nothing. One of the greatest voids and injustices in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is that individuals who have exercised the function of management or supervisory authority in an economic society or who have been its founders or associates may, without major restrictions, establish a new company or perform these functions in an unlimited number of companies already established, meaning that one person may be involved in the ownership, management or control of a large number of companies, regardless of whether participation in the ownership or management of one or more undertakings over which insolvency proceedings have been instituted. In the past, in many cases it has been shown that, according to the legal order in force, it is extremely difficult to prove that companies operate irregularly, making it extremely difficult for the vast majority of the proceedings before the courts to end with acquittals. In cases where irregularities in so-called economic crime have been proven, some procedures have even become obsolete due to procedural options. Therefore, there is no other restriction in the Slovenian legal order that would prevent those persons from starting new businesses or from participating in the authorities of the management or control of other companies. There are also no restrictions that would restrict the right of such an individual to operate in other companies where an individual has already exercised a supervisory or management function or owns it. We are proposing that solutions are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its Articles 33 and 74, despite the concerns we are likely to hear today. In the 38th recital to the Constitutional Court’s decision, number U-I-135/00-77, the Constitutional Court finds that any regime of liability for liabilities has property consequences. Just because the legal regime affects the property legal position of the addressees when imposing certain burdens on them, it is not yet possible to talk about interference with the constitutional right to private property. The Constitutional Court also states: "Every arrangement which lays down the rules of economic activity cannot be considered as a restriction by the Constitution of guaranteed entrepreneurship. The arrangements that protect creditors against the consequences of a low-cost undertaking cannot be regarded as an intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of economic initiative." In the 53rd paragraph of the reasoning of the decision, the Constitutional Court further states: "The determination of the conditions for the establishment and operation of an economic society does not prejudice the freedom of an economic initiative, nor does it restrict anyone's right to set up such a society." In that decision, the Constitutional Court also referred to the institute of reverse burden of proof, namely, the liability of the shareholders to the obligations of the company towards creditors, the so-called lack of legal personality, so that the evidentiary burden on the debtor and not on the creditor's side is already established, thus such judicial practice in the Republic of Slovenia. The basic objective of this proposal is therefore to prevent the establishment, management and supervision of companies to persons who were shareholders with a majority shareholding of more than 25 %, members of the management or supervisory authority of the company over which insolvency or forced termination proceedings were initiated or had such status in society two years before insolvency or forced termination proceedings were initiated. The aim of the law is also to take all existing powers or entitlements for the conduct of business, to prevent them from exercising control functions and to prohibit the exercise of voting rights in all companies where that person is the founder, shareholder, shareholder, member of the management or member of the supervisory authority of the company. It is essential that, in view of the length and effectiveness of the proceedings, the so-called reverse burden of proof, on the basis of which the above-mentioned persons will be subject to sanctions under the law, be able to demonstrate before the competent court themselves in an unfair proceeding that they did not influence or could not influence the operation of the company on which the insolvency or forced termination proceedings were initiated, or that they acted as a good master. Your Honor, the National Assembly! I believe it is essential that we do something in this area. As someone said in another situation, "these people need to be stopped." We are aware that the measures are rigorous, radical, but sometimes it is necessary to cut down on a few difficult but effective measures to establish a normal state in society. I therefore propose that we find that the proposal for a law must be adopted and that we all support it together as appropriate for further consideration. However, we are, of course, open to proposals, comments, and that we should all complete it together, correct it or any other way. But it seems to me that we really need to settle this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague. In the DeSUS Group, we have examined the proposal to supplement the Law on Economic Companies submitted by colleagues of the Slovenian People's Party. This law proposes restrictions on the establishment, management and supervision of companies. The novelty is short and the essence of it has been a certain form of sanctioning those who, in a company or a company affected by insolvency or forced termination proceedings, had a certain role to play, the possibility of having an impact on business. The penalty for a member of the Management Board or a member of the Supervisory Board, a shareholder and an equity shareholder of more than 25 % in the event that the company becomes insolvent or the company goes into forcible termination is that those persons would no longer be able to establish a company or become a member or a member of the management or have supervisory functions in another company. This prohibition would cover the listed status of these persons over the last two years before insolvency and forced termination proceedings. The applicants provided that this sanction would not be automatic and general for all, but that the court could allow them to establish a new company, society or to exercise an managerial or supervisory function if, after having been competent to decide in those proceedings, those persons, after having been given the authority to manage, control or exercise voting rights, proved in an unfair proceeding that their actions and decisions could not affect the bad outcome of the business or that they acted as a competent and fair economic operator. The applicant therefore allows the possibility for persons to be extracted from these envisaged prohibitions if they prove their innocence in the mismanagement and influence of companies that have led to forced settlement. In our Group of Members, we agree that forced settlement and bankruptcy, which is not a real consequence of economic problems or of the present economic crisis, is all too much and that many of them are false and abused. We condemn those who knowingly use their own resources to the detriment of hardworking workers and honest and faithful partners and subcontractors, deliberately exhaust society, and the resources are well flowing to other countries, and in the same breath, when they close down one of the impoverished companies, they appear in another company in such or other roles, whose story, of course, ends with a similar epilogue. We're wondering, where are there at least a few morals and business ethics? Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that in some way it is necessary to cut off such duality, immorality and an extremely poor and corrupt business culture, which in our country, according to our assessment, has already been ingrained considerably and dangerously. Although we understand and welcome the intention of the proposer, which is trying to reach with the content of the proposal, in the DeSUS Group, we find that the situation is only a little more complex than that assessed by the proposer and that it is well-intentioned through a simple proposal. The solutions proposed seem very simple, simple and, of course, very attractive at first sight. However, this proposal raises a whole line of questions that rightly raises doubts that the proposed solution is far enough, that it is comprehensive and that the applicant has foreseen all the consequences that this solution would have caused in the economy. Thus, we are already facing the issue of the country's continued participation in the economy under the prohibition of society, or of equity and establishment. These are cases of companies in which the Republic of Slovenia owns more than 25 % of the share and, as a result of the proposed solution, the State would immediately, such as the bankruptcy of one such company, be deprived of voting rights in other companies, lose ownership in all other companies and be prohibited from establishing new companies. This can very simply mean that, therefore, the state would no longer be present in the economy. In spite of the exceptional extractions envisaged, the damage would have been done even if possible after the court's tough decision, since the State would have been prevented from exercising voting rights, acquiring shares in other companies and establishing new companies throughout the course of the unfair procedure. Of course, this would result in damage to state property. According to the Government, in its rejection opinion, the proposed addition is due, in addition to the concerns already mentioned, to a whole range of other inconsistencies. These, even in our opinion, do not justify or maintain the positive nature of the applicant's purpose, and therefore we do not believe that this proposal is suitable for further consideration. We are aware, however, that an integrated, systematic and constructive approach must be taken to the problem of business failure. First of all, it is necessary to examine legislation; where it can be improved, where the gaps that need to be addressed are so that the abuse of the positions of those responsible in companies will be effectively sanctioned without harm to the economy and employees, and other types of sanctions – such as money fines for those responsible for operations and supervision – need to be found. I think that we should not punish society as such, as bankruptcy has serious consequences for employees and other creditors. In the fact that the management and control authorities have received serious fees for their work for the benefit of the company and have otherwise been involved in the theft of the company, it is essential to do something else about their personal responsibility to make bad decisions and to pursue their personal property. More needs to be done in pursuit of such acts and with the quality of the work of law enforcement and judicial authorities to achieve appropriate epilogues of the stories of Vegrad, SCT and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u54	Good day to you all! Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Madam Minister and co-worker! The path to hell is pressed for good purposes, it is an old Latin river and it is a response to the government's opinion that this law is an extreme arrangement. What to say when we all know long, long ago, even before Mrs Radic's thought that she would ever be a minister, so that it was not her fault when in the new country of Slovenia there were people who had been honest thinking and wanted to help themselves to better and faster development, and the others, there were many more who bought failed companies for free, a year, two or maybe five successful businesses with these companies and formed their own wealth fund, and then deliberately, I stress, deliberately put those companies that they bought on their knees for free of charge, while at the same time establishing new businesses with that accumulated capital, and the people who worked on the knees of the planned companies, there was nothing left of any, no bankruptcy or other procedure, nothing. These gentlemen, however, did fine work with another company and this peaceful presence of all of us, in the presence of all the legal countries in Slovenia and, if not in Slovenia, abroad – without sin, without sanctions, as if we were living in a truly lawless country. This has happened, and unfortunately this is still happening. We would expect the rule of law to be the one to see what is happening and to stop such unfair, unfair, inhuman, ugly acts of individuals, but they are not, as if, in our constitution, written that we have a legal state, they are not! Today we can list the names and surnames, the people who have had such businesses, who have had them on their knees and who have other companies that are once again successful, and who are not responsible for those previous companies that are still in bankruptcy, still, after 15, 20 years, and people without jobs, without money, on the road. Now what? Yes, what's left of it is that someone writes a bill at first reading, as we now have before us. Yes, the path to hell is pressed with good intentions and is indeed an extreme arrangement. Personally, I am always a proponent of a legal dictatorship that everyone — always has been and always will — will be innocent until proven guilty. This is the only problem I see in this bill: the reverse burden of proof. Unfortunately, the reverse burden of proof will not solve the problems, indeed. I think that man is always, whoever he is, but also, if the maggots are innocent until proven guilty, but the point is, until proven guilty, this is a matter of investigating organs and the judicial branch of power, which works like that story from the Asian countries — three monkeys: I can't hear, I can't see, and I don't speak. And what else should we expect from such a marriage? A law aimed at preventing the establishment, management and supervision of companies to persons who were shareholders, shareholders with a shareholding of more than 25 %, members of the management or supervisory authority of the company over which insolvency or forced termination proceedings were initiated. For me, that's the point. It is somewhat questionable that the second part, whether they had such status in society two years before the insolvency proceedings began, is questionable to me. Or maybe they're someone who didn't know two years before this procedure or they didn't have a plan to destroy the company and set up another, maybe. I don't know, I still insist on the principle of innocence until proven guilt. I have to touch the government's work now. Government, we have heard Madam Minister, says there is much in this law, but it is far too extreme. The government has written in its reply a long explanation why it opposes the proposed changes, but unfortunately we have not heard the Government's will, I speak to the government, not to the Minister, what she will do about it. What else should I say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, such as that the Government has put its head back in the sand like an ostrich who fears and hides, the last side looks out and waits. However, despite the fact that the Government itself has written that institutions which are already available after the current legal order should start to be more used, to raise awareness among entities and other stakeholders, and, and, and, and – 20 years should have been required, nothing has happened in 20 years. [[...]] I believe, indeed, the good will of a minister who says what he thinks and is honest, at least for me, nothing will happen again. Companies will fail again, their owners will go into – now they are so careful that they no longer stay in Slovenia – Panama, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, etc., many have already gone, many are already there, and many are leaving and we can't do anything again! Such guidelines as provided for by this Act are also contained in the OECD-Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development programme in a milder form, and we are proud to have become members of a large membership. Why did we become members of the OECD? In order for someone to boast before the world, "we are in Europe, in the Euro System, in the OECD, we are here and we are there". [[Incomprehensible]] take into account what such organisations write down and do not comply with those rules. The OECD writes precisely very similar rules on how to deal with cases that are recorded in this bill. I'm saying it again. We are in the Slovenian National Party and will remain adherents of the principles of innocence until proven guilty, we are disturbed by the reverse burden of proof. Blame someone before he's proven guilty. It bothers us. We don't think it's fair in any way, but it's true in no way. They've been bothering us for two years. Someone who, two years before insolvency, owned or supervised, I don't know, would be guilty before his guilt was proven. These two things disturb us, but we say in the Slovenian National Party: it is right for someone to encourage this process. He has to, he has to, because these games were enough. However, despite the proponent's benevolence, we also estimate that it is already a little late, because we no longer have the possibility of anyone else buying cheap businesses, earning fine, then putting them on their knees and going elsewhere. After all, it's gone, it's all been done. Here I would rather go in the legislative and judicial proceedings in that process which is not allowed in the back process, and find them and punish them. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose this proposal at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers, welcome! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are still well aware of the seriousness of the issue that is being addressed today, which wants to be addressed by the amendment of the Company Act. Although the novel seems simple, it opens up many very complex questions about the functioning of our economy and the rule of law. We are even facing the constitutional issue of a free economic initiative. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we share the view that it is right to open this discussion at the plenary session and to listen to the answers to some questions and find the best solutions. That is why we, among others, have asked for a general debate on this law. Let us start by saying that at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we agree with the basic principle pursued by the law, namely that for non-economic or even intentional damage to companies called upon to do so, they must be adequately accountable. As is already clear from the introductory explanations, we are talking about a pressing problem that has come to a greater extent in these times of crisis, when economic conditions in both the Slovenian and the international environment have deteriorated significantly. In a number of suspected and even less alleged cases, it is perceived that some of those responsible for the business fall into insolvency proceedings, whether it is a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. It happens a little or nothing. There are whole-time events when some chain-based businesses are being set up and one after another is being exhausted. The proposal for a new law that is before us today must be acknowledged, which seriously affects the regulation of the possibility of setting up, managing and controlling businesses, as well as the acquisition of ownership shares and the exercise of voting rights arising from this ownership. To put it simply, it is assumed that someone who was either more than 25% involved in the ownership of the company or has been involved in the management or supervision of that company in order to automatically prevent the management, supervision, establishment or exercise of voting rights. Of course, the law also provides for the possibility that someone can prove that the company did not have an impact on insolvency proceedings, but must do so in court; we can also talk about the so-called reverse burden of proof. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as we have already said in the introduction, we estimate that the current site requires responsibility and consequently sanctioning those who exhaust businesses and exploit the current legal framework for their own acquisition interests at the expense of others does not work effectively enough. Among other things, the Government states in its opinion that both shareholders and shareholders as well as creditors have a number of instruments at their disposal to demand the responsibility of supervisors and managers when they act unfairly and unscrupulously, but many questions are raised. Does no one use these instruments, and where there is no defendant, there is no judge, or is it too complicated to prove guilt and responsibility? On this question, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia would also like to receive satisfactory answers during today's debate, whether there is an analysis of how many such proceedings are going on in the courts, how long they take, and what the results are. Before we can make a final statement on support or non-support to the law, we would also like to highlight the above-open dilemma, namely whether we do not go too far with such rigorous administrative measures to the freedom of the enterprise initiative. There is a dilemma before us whether in Slovenia we have reached the point where we have to administratively cut into the functioning of the economy and in some way criminalise the management and supervision of businesses at conceptual level, or whether we just have to complete the existing system. For the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, a free enterprise initiative is one of the fundamental pillars of the modern market economy, but each freedom must be placed within a just legal framework, which is not to the detriment of the other and to the detriment of the community. And we will have to answer that question in this law. As far as more concrete solutions are concerned, we are asked in this law whether it is true to include in the law such sanctioning of owners, i.e. shareholders and shareholders of companies. Indeed, the ownership of an undertaking is not yet a reason for the company to be in insolvency proceedings, nor is it even questionable to what extent a partner or shareholder may influence the business of an undertaking in the current legal framework of corporate governance. Indeed, management and supervisors have the most responsibility for managing the company. With the proposed intervention, in our view, we would probably go too far into individual rights and thus into the very functioning of the economy. We certainly tend to solutions that exacerbate the responsibilities of those directly responsible for the management and supervision of businesses. We are also of the opinion that any prohibition should be limited in time. Regardless of the dilemmas, we have decided to support the law at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club at first reading and to answer the questions raised and find the best solutions in the course of further discussions. Our decision is based on basic facts: The problem of the responsibility of the manager and the supervisory authority exists. Chain establishment and exhaustion must be stopped. In order to achieve these objectives, the legal instrument is either inadequate, insufficient or ineffective, so it is right to seek better solutions and modernise the existing law. This law is a real opportunity to pour pure wine with these issues and problems, so we will vote in favour of adopting a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So far, it has been repeatedly highlighted, and I think that it is also that we are considering the law at first reading, so today, unless we stop further consideration, we are not deciding on anything fateful, as far as this proposal is concerned by the law, so we, the Group of Non-Aligned Members, will also establish a double position, for the first time, the position of the procedure, and for the second time, the position of the law in the text that we now have before us. As far as the procedure is concerned. We also estimate that it is best that when proposals come into the legislative process, they are not stopped at the very first step, but are allowed to discuss solutions that are proposed to be considered more broadly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u59	Mr. Rezman, allow me to interrupt you for a moment. In fact, it is a great time and a pleasure for me to welcome in our midst the Vice-President of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China, Han Qide, with a delegation that came to Slovenia yesterday. Dear guests, I would like to have a successful conversation and a pleasant stay in our country. / applause/ Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Now, if you want me to pull a thread for a little while, I'll take it from you. It is therefore a matter of judging that it is right that the procedures continue to the extent that the proposed solutions can also be faced with professional solutions, the responses of the experts who face them, which so far has not been possible in this case, but this option is now if the law is supported in the sense that the case for further consideration is open and this possibility is likely to be exploited. At the very least, we will also be faced with the reflection of our legislative and legal service, but of course it would be useful if another professional public responded. So, as far as the procedure is concerned, there will be no major embarrassment in our parliamentary group, as far as the law is concerned in the proposed text is concerned, but if we should decide on it, we would object if, of course, it were not to be amended by amendments, so that those greatest flaws would be removed. We do not know, however, that we are not sure whether the philosophy of law can only be changed by amendments. But this should show the procedure that will continue. The law has its mark, and this has already been highlighted, in that it encourages the Government, in a sense, to force the Government to consider requiring some kind of response, and this has been achieved, at least by making efforts to produce a relatively large, more than usual, opinion, which we believe is, at least, well reasoned and which can greatly help in improving the text proposal below the procedure. The second feature, if we may say so, of this bill is that it is so entirely consistent with, in sayings, a sound public opinion, and it would probably be difficult to find out if people in public are now being asked, who would object to this basic ambition, and, as we know, they do not know in general. So this alignment with public opinion, common sense and the proposal of the law is something that is in favour of the proposal, because it speaks of our society, individuals being aware of this problem and that it is consistent with the need to find certain solutions. The problem is that what is generally accepted in the public is not necessarily professionally justified. And this second part, this expert argument, to complement the amendment, should still take place, according to the ruling of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. As far as the problems of insolvency, insolvency proceedings, legislation and so on are concerned, this is, of course, an integral part of the capitalist economic system, and this cannot be completely avoided anywhere else, and we, even in the future, are unlikely to do so. But these ambitions, so radical, there is no law proposal, has an ambition to prevent excessive abuse and we can overthrow its basic philosophy. More than prevention, this law is aimed at prohibiting those mentioned as owners, as managers or as supervisors, from performing this function elsewhere if it turns out that they were guilty of insolvency proceedings, it is prohibited to perform these functions within the meaning of the general official duty after recall, and I must say that I cannot imagine how these concentration cycles could spread if this actually happened in practice. In a small community as small as ours, it would be difficult to reach anyone from these concentric circles that would expand. The prohibition is also aimed at the exercise of ownership rights and, of course, the rights arising from ownership and the functions of management and supervision. If, as the law is written, we are really starting to implement, we are afraid that this would have such consequences, that supervisory functions, management functions, owners' functions could be in a situation of collapse and possibly multiple negative consequences and even economic stagnation in certain parts. So if we are all talking about the fact that the law has the right intentions, that the intentions are good, that the solutions, as proposed, are such that they can also be challenged, then we can probably conclude, even after today's presentations of the introductory opinions, that the law will still be further examined, that it will face the profession, that it will also face representatives of various economic associations, and that we will probably see the implications of implementing such a law as it is proposed. Just a few more words about exceptions. The proposer is aware of any shortcomings in the adoption of the law in the cited text and therefore provides for exceptions. So one of these prohibitions could also be removed, of course, only if, according to the principle of the reverse burden of proof, he proved that he was innocent. But just the principle of the reversed burden of proof is not in itself absolutely good. It may, it may also cause certain flaws, and when the individual justified cases of prohibition are generalised, there may be unforeseen consequences and it would probably be possible to show by empirical numbers that it would be significantly less guilty than those who would have been penalized on official duty, because those who are not guilty would also be punished. That's the implications of this problem, but we should just prove it. To prove to them that they are guilty, they must prove later that they did not have a leading or key role in making decisions that were bad. So this problem of reversed burden of proof will also need to be carefully reconsidered and I think that generalisation, the generalisation of punishment, as is now envisaged in the law, is radical or as the proponent himself said.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will be supporting the draft law on amendments and additions to the law tabled by the Group of Members at this stage in most cases. The reasons for this are clear, as it seeks to resolve in some way the situation in which a number of companies have fallen into the past, when shareholders, management and control deliberately brought their business to bankruptcy or forcible settlement, while on the other hand, without any consequence, they have participated in the establishment, management and supervision of other companies, all at the expense of creditors and employees. We are aware, however, that there is an urgent need for a number of amendments and that we will actively participate in the drafting of these groups. In particular, in our view, the constitutionally controversial restriction of the entrepreneurial initiative by involving the shareholders in the provisions of the law is. The responsibility of such persons would be more appropriate to be governed by the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures, and partly by Article 8 of the Company Act – the transparency of the legal personality. In no way do we want to stigmatise the concept of "entrepreneur", which is partly possible in the proposal. For we believe that entrepreneurship can be a driving force for the development of the whole society and that further limiting it at an ideological level would be a major barrier. The placement of the provisions of the proposal in Article 10 of the Act is also questionable. We believe that it would be more appropriate to place restrictions in Article 255, which refers to the appointment and mandate of the members of the management and control bodies. The proposal will need to introduce much more specific conditions to limit the function of management and control, on the basis of the principle of the English Company director disqualification act or the Law on Directorial Duties and Obligations. Finally, we hope that we will not get into a situation where managers and supervisors are deterred from citing the enforcement or bankruptcy procedures in a timely manner and thereby further harming creditors and employees. It is sad that business and management culture in Slovenia is so low that such measures are even necessary. At the same time, it would be utopian to believe that abuse does not occur. The bill is, at all times, a suitable basis in our eyes for further consideration, with which we can also partly turn culture in the direction of responsible society. However, we might also consider introducing the existing ethical code that has been adopted into the law, since it seems that we are not yet mature enough to respect only moral standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr Žerjav has the floor on behalf of the applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much. First, I would like to thank you for the constructive criticism of our bill. Most of the questions that have been raised are, what about state-owned companies or those where the state owns a larger percentage than 25. Let me start by saying that there are 55 such companies in Slovenia. 55 companies where the country has a larger owner than 25%, so that this is not a terrible large number and would certainly be able to resolve this matter. However, I am of the opinion that it is in this segment that this law would give the greatest added value in order to actually force the country to set up quality, quality supervisors, to set up quality administrations and certainly not have to be afraid in the future that any of these companies, where there is a larger owner than 25%, would enter into such or different insolvency proceedings. But I would like to present the two sides of the medal in such a visual way. I have an article on one side, a contribution from today's Work, and I'm going to read some lines. "Garden Freezing Assets" is the title. "The Senior Judges annulled the decision of the Regional Court of Cerknica concerning the freezing of Mr Ivan Zidar's property. Such a proposal was rejected by Liko. They found that the decision of the District Court concerning the issue of a provisional order was burdened by an absolute violation of the provisions of the judicial procedure or of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Among other things, they agreed with Zidar's attorney, Lawyer Zoran Hartman, that the creditor had failed to demonstrate the existence of the danger that Zidar would alienate or hide his assets and that the District Court had not identified himself to the Wallar objectionable arguments that challenged the creditor's claim that the purchase price was controversial. Liko Liboje must reimburse Zidar €1518 of the costs of the appeal procedure." and so on and so forth. That's on one side of the story, and the other side of the story is one of the letters I got last week from one of the ladies. It says, "I will quickly describe my situation, and I would only ask for your advice. I've been employed for 10 years in SCT, as you know, now the case is like, five months without pay and so on. We are now at home without any decision, so the status is unknown, and so I cannot apply to the Employment Service, nor to the Guarantee Fund until the official bankruptcy. And all of this goes on forever. I have already turned to all institutions in this country, from the labour inspectorate to all those responsible, and the answer has been copied by laws on the Internet. I've already sent close to 200 job applications, after most of them, and no answer. I'm the mother of a 13-month-old daughter, and believe me, it's very difficult. I don't know who I can turn to anymore." We've got two ends of the story here. On the one hand, I'm going to say, almost, I don't even know what kind of words I'm going to choose, but I'd rather leave it as some kind of protective state. On the other hand, of course, a whole bunch of problems. I am of the opinion that people need to be put primarily on this side of people. On the side of those who don't blame themselves for being in stories like this. And it is necessary for those who have wronged such stories to stand on their fingertips so that such things will not happen in the future. This law, which we have under consideration, is precisely because of such cases, which are unfortunately few in Slovenia. If it were just one case, I'd say it's just an excess that needs to be dealt with. However, we find that there are many such cases. We have a systemic malfunction. I hope, Your Honor, that you were betrothed when you, as an example, gave Steklara Nova. I hope you do not admit that the new company has gone bankrupt because of inadequate management of this company or because of inadequate management of the owner as a country. Because in an unfair process, you will likely prove that there were other reasons for the bankruptcy of Glacier Nova. But if it's the state's fault that she went bankrupt, then it's a hell of a mess. As far as unfair proceedings are concerned, we have made sure that they run well, that there is no backlog, that they are resolved very quickly, so that it should not be a problem to think here that anyone here might have any problems. The principle of innocence was also discussed. The principle of innocence applies, of course, to criminal proceedings. We are now regulating the establishment of new companies. Nothing else. We have focused only on this segment of the company law. So it's a segment that talks about starting new companies. This is in order to prevent the chain of establishment of companies in order for capitalists to solve their skin in one way or another. At one time, a new company will be set up, three, four, if necessary. This new company is being transferred to what is good from a bad, old, imported company: healthy cores, fixed assets, I don't know what. Everything is transferred to a new company, the old company is left with workers and everything that is unnecessary. With no capital, everything is sent to bankruptcy and the capitalist with the new company, as if nothing had happened, leads the matter forward and bears no responsibility, no risk, nothing. And no one in this country can hurt him. I've read the case. No one can do anything. We say we have good legislation. Maybe so, so it's not used, or it's bad. Something's not right. The system's not working. As far as the reverse evidentiary burden is concerned, the alternative to the reverse evidentiary burden is what we have. That's an alternative to the subject. We all see what the results are. They're not good. In some cases it is certainly not that I will not say, in some selected cases. Of course, I'm not all. In the Slovenian People's Party we are open to comments, for proposals. We are also prepared to supplement the law if you think that in some segments it is too radical. In any case, it would be bad and would also be a bad signal, I believe that this serious attempt to correct one of the anomalies in the Slovenian economy is being rejected. In my opinion, that would be a bad signal. And I also think that there are some such anomalies, and they should be slowly changed one step at a time, so that we will no longer come to such things as we have seen them in recent times. But I'm surprised, and I'm going to say it anyway, that I do feel some support for this law, at least in principle. Practically one parliamentary group has in some way rejected the support of this law. And that's the one that says in every other sentence how to shut the tycoons down, how they need to collect all their assets, so that pensioners will have good pensions in the future. This isn't right and it's not right. If, then, let us combine all the wisdom that is and correct, let us improve this law in order to prevent the anomalies that I have spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u65	Ms Radiceva made a statement. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I would like to say in this debate that, in fact, all the parliamentary groups, all the debaters so far have found that the intention is the right one, as confirmed by the Government, I also confirmed it in my opening act. This makes it difficult for me to accept the fact that we are going or that we are enforcing the country’s protective attitude so that we do not take sides with people. I don't think that's justified. Of course, we are constantly working, and we have already helped with certain solutions to protect people and others. What else has been exposed today? And that seems very fine to me, as Mr Vizjak said, and so did the others, and I have already said this several times, even in addressing previous amendments to the Company Act when we were saving silent societies. The fact is that the problem is not so much in the legal definition, in the legal provisions, but the problem is in their implementation. And even in the case of the establishment of chain companies, in the case of these anomalies, it is once again shown that the judicial branch of the authorities does not, in fact, meet sufficiently effectively all the provisions already defined in the law. The reverse burden of proof is, in fact, what bothers us the most. And what you, Sir Žerjav, have said very nicely right now. On the case of Glass Nova, I wanted to explain what this means, the reverse burden of proof. In this process, it is said that even before it is determined whether those who led Steklarska Novo or those who controlled Steklarska Nova or the owner – the state was guilty of this bankruptcy, all of these were convicted before that. So the state, the supervisors, must prove that this is not because they are not guilty. And until the court decides, they have no rights, they can't be the manager, they can't be the supervisors, and the owner can't exercise the voting rights. That's what I wanted to point out at the time, and that's the problem, like I said, that needs to be solved. I also think that by one different definition of this article it will be possible to write down that such anomalies will not occur on the other hand, because it is not appropriate to adopt any new legal provisions that will, on the other hand, create problems for us, may even be of even greater scale. Well, I don't think that's necessary. If I look at this comparison, this reverse burden of proof is actually one unique. You also did not find such a case in the draft law when you mentioned comparisons with other countries. All the cases that you have cited — Luxembourg, Great Britain, Spain — all sanctions are based on a preliminary finding of guilt, whatever the case, only the authorities are different to find out. And I think on these, and these solutions are comparable, for example, to me personally the solution of Great Britain is quite close, I think fast and can be feasible and also effective in Slovenia. [[…]] Thus, such solutions should, in my opinion, continue to be implemented in the law, because nothing will help us if we re-write something in the law, if, on the other hand, we find that, for various reasons, it is not possible to implement these provisions. And one more thing – you have read us an article on SCT, Mr Member. The SCT was acquitted of guilt, as I understand it, I did not read this article on my own. Thus, on the basis of one conviction based on current legal standards, the court found that the SCT was exempt from guilt and, of course, those who initiated these proceedings must now even pay some compensation. It's scary if you ask me. But let's take a look on the other side. Where, however, we have the guarantee that if we now adopt this law and say, because here in this law it says that the court must determine whether the manager, supervisor or owner has contributed to the bankruptcy or insolvency of the company and whether it is the fault. [[…]] Where, though, do we now have the assurance that in these cases the judge will say that he is not guilty? We haven't solved anything, and here I want to draw your attention to the root of the problem. The root of the problem is the persecution of such anomalies. And in this direction, I think that we should all focus our actions, our ideas, our proposals together. At this point, I think we're limping. By sharpening the legal standards in this way, we are essentially severely restricting economic freedom, the free establishment of businesses, and now I ask you to do just one more thing: become an entrepreneur, an honest entrepreneur. Tell me, when this law is in force, will you be willing to take over the position of manager, be prepared to go to the supervisor, be prepared to set up companies in Slovenia, if you are threatened to say two more years after you sell the company, someone will be able to prosecute you for the bankruptcy of that company that you have already sold? When you have to prove that you were not guilty of insolvency or bankruptcy, because there have been various situations, what I know, an economic crisis. Why would we do that in Slovenia? I don't think so either. And believe that entrepreneurs will not deal with this, but will go to other countries and set up businesses where, of course, such severe sanctions are not envisaged. Thieves are still not, in my opinion, going to be rejected in this way. However, I agree, and now I have read particularly carefully this comparative arrangement that you have prepared, and as I said, I see good solutions if we are working on the UK case. However, this case, which is not based on prior evidence of non-violence, is based on the fact that the bankruptcy manager, when the firm comes into bankruptcy, prepares a report and he determines whether the bankruptcy was caused on purpose and who is responsible for the bankruptcy. Why was there a bankruptcy? This solution seems to me quite close to the optimal solution for Slovenia at this time, even considering what kind of judicial system we have and what arrangements we have in other areas. That's how much I wanted to add. Once again, I point out that we are also aware of this problem, that we are also preparing comprehensive amendments to the Company Act. We have an interdepartmental group because it's not a problem that could be solved by a few officials in one department. A change is needed more and can be particularly comprehensive if we want to arrange it. It is also not only about the Law on Economic Companies, but also about other laws, it is necessary to amend the Law on – at least – the Law on the Court Register, for straw companies, we have proposed a amendment to the Labour Relations Act a year ago to prevent the employment of workers from mothers to subsidiaries in order to get rid of them in order to increase the period, the right number of years in which the mother must worry and assume responsibility for the payment of workers, even if these have been redistributed to subsidiaries, but the law has not come into consideration. I hope you remember who was against it. They were trade unions, if I recall correctly, in the Economic and Social Council. In short, but despite this, I repeat, we are working to move forward in this area, but once again, we are also ready to participate in the search for solutions, but in finding solutions that will be feasible and that will indeed bring one step forward in this area, not causing problems on the other hand, slow economic growth or anything else. Well, that's still a contribution from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you. The word has Zalokar, Zanoškar, Little Lord Rezman, please. You're giving up. France Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor to prepare Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u68	A number of debaters today have already said that the proposer in this draft law is pursuing good intentions in this bill, and I also believe that the Slovenian People's Party has the best intention of properly stepping on the fingers of those who are angry with many of us. They piss off the citizens, they piss off the proposer, and they piss me off. I am pleased that Mr Žerjav described the case earlier with his name and surname, which angers him and I am sure that he is angry with all of us. He mentioned Ivan Zidar and SCT. He read an article that says that his assets are no longer frozen because of a breach of certain procedural assumptions. These procedural assumptions are a key problem that I see in our legislation, because in this country the courts do not seem to be asking whether someone is guilty or not, whether someone has committed a violation of the law or not, has acted fairly and fairly or not, but whether a formal condition has been met. Whether he filed an application within a period of time or whether he objected to it in a prescribed manner or so. If you ask me, this lies at the heart of the inefficiency of our persecution and the determination of responsibility where this responsibility must be determined in court. I don't know John Zidar, Hilda, but I don't know anything like him. But I know thousands of entrepreneurs. And if you ask me, although I am aware that political today would be extremely opportunistic to speak as most of this Chamber may have said so far, I do not agree with such a measure, because I think that there is another in the series of Slovenian refugees after the origins of economic law in this country have been set in a very comparable way, following the German model that we are now upgrading these solutions with some automation in order to prevent the behaviour that we do not like as a society and should not be liked. We won't be successful again, I guarantee you that. What bothers me the most is automation. Anyone who puts an entity into some insolvency procedure, and those are no longer, can in fact no longer carry out his or her activities. He can no longer set up a company, he can no longer run a company, he can no longer participate in the supervisory authorities. Now tell me, is the bankruptcy process itself something that incriminates? Is the process of forcible settlement in itself something that suggests the incrimination of some kind of conduct? If it is, and it seems to me that most of this hall today has said that, then please, it is not only a ban on setting up a new company, but when the company is in bankruptcy, let the van come, the police stationery and hop, hop, such a person in the "chuzo". Then let's be whole! What we will ban the establishment of new businesses, let us put such people in jail if that is the assumption which in itself incriminates. I think it is necessary to say, as the voice of reason in this Chamber, that entrepreneurship is something that needs to be encouraged in this country, that entrepreneurship is in itself taking on risks. I appreciate the thousands and thousands of people in this country who have shown since 1990 that this country can be very entrepreneurial. And I don't think they're all bastards, and this law says they're all bastards until they prove otherwise. And instead of really thinking about what is so wrong in our system that Ivan Zidar, Hilda However, and the like will not be caught on the hooks of our country of law, we will set up a network on which everyone will be caught — honest and dishonest. And then, of course, they have the opportunity to prove, by law, that they are innocent. I think it's the criminalisation of entrepreneurship, I think we're going to have very bad indices in this area that show how very impolite we've become, how few of our companies survive, not because they're all bastards, but because they're performing in a market where there's not much to do. And because a company in this country and any other country can be bankrupted, even if you do everything by "regulatory," everything as it is right, everything as it is fair and fair. In the final stage, in this hall last week, we were talking about subcontractors who stayed dry because of SCT and because of Dars, if you ask me. These subcontractors have all matured to bankruptcy, but the question is whether they have acted in such a way that they should be subject to the sanctions that we are adopting today in our economic legislation. I'll give you another case. A crippled company in Maribor, ripe for bankruptcy. You know why? Since, in my view, the State has prescribed a mandatory net in a poorly thought-out manner. By the way, this company can easily be extracted in the further legislative procedure because 75% of the company's owners are state-owned. The management of this company is making every effort to get the company to the green branch, but the Ministry of Economy has no measures to ensure that the de minimis funding goes away. The Ministry of Labour cannot help because it is said to be the competent Ministry of Economy. This company will go bankrupt. And then what?Oh, my God! But the greater the hypocrisy in this subject seems to me to be that part of the government's position, which says, "He basically has good intentions, all right, but he can't do that for the country." Why? Does the state not have, not the same, significantly better conditions for ensuring that things go the way they should in the companies that own it? He's got all the mechanisms. He can afford the best law offices. One entrepreneur can't afford them. That entrepreneur who can't afford the right expensive legal aid, dear lawyers' offices, he's going to piss off that entrepreneur. I would like to remind you of the year 1999, when this National Assembly adopted the Financial Business Act. I'm talking about deleted companies. There again we said: three assumptions on which the company is liquidated by official duty without determining responsibility, ipso eur, under the law itself. At that time, the purpose was to clear the economic field. Not only did we delete them, to the members of those societies, we said, "You are now personally responsible for everything your societies have created", without any attempt to individualize guilt, responsibility, because someone has indeed acted recklessly or even intentionally to harm creditors. We don't care about that in this country. Since we have problems with individualised identification of responsibilities in this country, we will be taking measures that will apply to all. We're all bastards in this country. That's what I would have warned you about. I know quite a few companies during this economic crisis, specifically in Maribor, where the bigger problem was that the bankruptcy was triggered too late and then nothing could actually be done, there was no way to extract from some healthy nuclear company that could be able to live on and remain competitive on the market. This law will further contribute to bankruptcy being triggered later. However, I think there is something that needs to be done, because I fully agree with Mr Žerjav in the analysis of the situation and I think that the public also expects us to do so. Personally, I would like to bind these consequences, and as far as I am concerned, even worse consequences, not only the prohibition of setting up companies, not only the prohibition of running a business, not only the prohibition of participation in supervisory authorities, but worse consequences, but other assumptions. If the company goes bankrupt, it is not a crime in itself for me, but it is a legal form of clearing up old liabilities and being able to relive in order to maintain jobs in this way, so that we may find a more suitable owner. To give him some new dynamics that might make our and the world market more competitive. However, I think that this must be tied to another reason, not just the beginning of some insolvency procedure. What could that be? In Swiss law, they're talking about harmful bankruptcy. The applicant himself mentions this in an international comparison. Perhaps the harmful bankruptcy of some institution, which should have been in our insolvency legislation, not in the ZGD, is arranged to in some way demarcate the honest from the dishonest, because, as it is said, the company can come into bankruptcy even if the leadership and the owners, if they have all acted fairly and carefully together. And in this way, by enacting such a law, we would just say, "in this country, it's not worth the risk," because that entrepreneur who wants to succeed has to take the risk of getting out of the circle of his own safety. If he doesn't want it, if he can't do it, then he'd better be a state official. And again, I'm doing the wrong thing to the important work of government officials. Look at what needs to be done, and I strongly recommend to the Government that in the announced more comprehensive reform of the GDD consider these things. I think that the attempts already made by the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend the LAG suggest the need to better address the issue of conflict of interest in this country in our legislation. I hear that in economic legal theory, this debate abroad is very lively; it is virtually gone, or is isolated in strictly professional circles. Another time. Strengthen legal standards as to what it means to be a good economist. We have practically written in our economic legislation in one paragraph: "The care of a good master or, in the case of economic operators, the care of a good economist." This is supposed to be an institution that, at the age of 18, if I am not mistaken as far as the Company Act is concerned as a completely comparable legislative framework for the appearance of economic operators on the market, judicial practice has already been filled with some content; obviously it is not, we may need to properly fill this standard with the relevant content. What are the assumptions? What are those tasks that a good economic operator has to perform in order to survive on the market, to make the company prosper, and therefore, as far as possible, if it does not do so, the creditors will remain unpaid, they will remain unemployed, etc.? I think that with simple measures, which would just say, "everyone who brings a company to bankruptcy, falsely, with great negligence or normal negligence, cannot be subject to the sanctions prescribed by this law." Indeed, in this country there is a lack of business culture, there is a lack of appropriate business ethics in this country, which is just an expression that we may have become a morally highly vacated society, but I think that in a way that would be without individual responsibility, without weighing individual behaviours before you become guilty that without these measures will not work. We have this question in two parts of the CAG, relatively well regulated, but unfortunately there are no cases. Article 8 of the ZGD also speaks of the transparency of legal personality, which is in practice an unexploited institution, by the way, because we have introduced automation in other laws, and I think in Article 255 we have a regulated responsibility for the administrations of supervisory authorities. In the case of the State, I will ask you which supervisor the State has appointed as its supervisor has been responsible for his conduct in the last 18 years with all his assets, by the way, because this is the GAG's directive: "The Supervisor is responsible for his decisions with all his assets." Tell me, which one is it? As far as I know, even in this SCT country has been present for a very long time, and perhaps today we should be wondering how we could have allowed the SCT to be privatized in this way as it was privatized, and how is it that all political parties, from red to black, and also the people's party think that there are no sins here, given that it has been leading the transport sector for so long – so long that they assisted the Wallar in building his empire? I warn against the underthinking moves, the hasty moves, the moves that will not have a consensus in the line of action when we take measures which, according to this Chamber, are to be saved. In my view, however, large fish will still be able to escape unless otherwise they transfer their assets and activities to others. And again, these little ones will be the ones who will fit into a network that will read: "We don't want an enterprise Slovenia".
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Žerjav has the floor as a proposaler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Comrade Franz, I think you've gone a little over the edge. No one incriminates anyone, and I agree with you that bankruptcy is not a crime in its essence. But it is true that he has been in Slovenia many times. There have been many times more than crime. We've been on TV for the last two years. I'm not saying it's a crime, but I'm sure the pigs are unprecedented. So, what happens? Nothing happens. Are we going to sit here in the National Assembly with my hands crossed and wait for someone to give us a solution? Are we going to make a suggestion and try to make a difference? Yeah, it's a unique one. Of course, the country of Slovenia is also unique in many cases. I'm sorry about that. We can't be proud that we're in a lot of hiding places, that we don't know how to work things out the way we should. I don't know why. Who are we afraid of? Or is it true that these networks really control the whole scene in such a way that I call it that there is nothing left to do with the laws? They don't get caught in the net. It's real. I guess it's too rare. You need to put it more on the guest list to make sure they get caught. In the last two years, 300 million euros went to Liechtenstein and Cyprus. Probably "fairly" earned money, I guess. 300 million euros, probably not from those subcontractors who are now waiting to be paid by these great barons, as I don't know what. Probably not one of those. Nobody's incriminating anyone here. And bankruptcy is not a crime. But it is true that he is in the process of establishing companies. Once again, we have focused only on that part of the Company Act, which speaks of the establishment of new societies, nothing else. We're not changing anything else. Only the conditions for the establishment of new companies are tightened because we believe that those of those pigs I have talked about do not have the right to start new companies anymore until they have cleaned their stories back up, in short, put them on the table and prove that they have done everything as they had to. It can't be like that. I agree, establishment and a free economic initiative, and risk and I don't know what. I risk it, of course, it's a risk. But it can't be that way to start an economic society, and then I'll see. If it works, it'll work, but if it doesn't work, I'll start a new one, and I'll take it to a new one. What's left will be left, and claims and so on. It can't be that way. And if I can't get another company, I'll see, and I'll set up a third, and so on and so forth. And I'm going to leave the mess behind. Let the line be. Maybe this one's too tight, I don't know. I don't know, I don't think it's right. A good question was asked why supervisors and administrations do not answer. That's a very good question. Why do you think not? Because they were placed in these places. And they've been running politics the way they've been ordered all these 20 years. And that is why I say that this measure would have the greatest added value for state-owned enterprises, because that is probably when the state would start to think about who it would appoint as a member of the President of the Administration and supervisors. That would be really the greatest added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you. The word has you want a replica, Mr. Franzege? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u72	If you ask me, it's all over the enterprise world that an entrepreneur has to try a few times before it works. You win some, you lose some. I agree that Slovenian economic practice has led to some stories that must concern us all together. And I think a more detailed analysis of these stories should lead us to answer the question of what needs to be done in our order in order to prevent this. Until then, it remains very clear to me that we will not solve anything with automation. As it is said, let's not make the wrong impression that I want to protect any of these great barons, the tycoons, I don't know what else we call them. However, I think that in these cases, too, with one soberness and caution, we need to think about small businesses. If you ask me, we will only be drawn from this economic mud by an enterprising man who has an idea, but also by a man who may not be happy because it is a subject of economic risk. And I want as many businesses to be established in Slovenia as possible, even if one of them doesn't survive, because I think entrepreneurship is something beautiful, something fair, something noble, it's a desire to stretch out to achieve something more, it's a desire to risk getting something eventually. And I really believe that because the law says bankruptcy is a crime in itself, because the law – your proposal – binds to the start of some insolvency proceedings some consequence. Again, if the law goes into further consideration, consider whether the start of insolvency proceedings is the real cause. And one more thing; we have talked several times about changes in financial legislation. The Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We're going into a process where we're giving the boards of creditors more and more powers. If you ask me, the creditors' committees should be given all powers in bankruptcy proceedings, because they are the ones who are personally interested in not stealing and so on. And through this institute, we can effectively prevent the cases you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u73	Mr. Frangež, time for the replica has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u74	I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has the floor to prepare Mr Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u76	Have a good day again, all of you! I was pleased to see the views of the parliamentary groups expressed with regard to the law first signed by Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav presented here today. And the common conclusion of all was that there was obviously something very wrong in the Slovenian space and that there was a need to eliminate the anomalies that had been created in recent years in such a way or otherwise. And the justice system is indeed the one that works, and we have heard here when an article was read by Mr Žerjev, what such a procedure can be like – obviously according to the laws we have adopted or adopted in Parliament, and obviously not all of them are written in order to be able to act under these laws. It surprises me, too, in this reversed burden of proof, the position of the National Assembly, which is not the first one today. One such position we have heard, including the Government's position, was that there were certain reservations when we spoke about the European Parliament's resolution when we talked about the reverse burden of proof on organised crime and terrorism. One of the rare countries we have probably been in the European resolution, which was intended only to give to those who have much wealth and are suspected of having it at the expense of organised crime or terrorism, orders them to prove the origin of this property and that in the event of failure, it is said that there is no real source that this property is also taken away We have different cases and legal experts have determined that all that is possible to intercept today is that property that is acquired in a particular case, for which it is also necessary through a complex judicial procedure, through long-term to definitively prove this inadequacy, this irregular origin of this property. [[…]] It is said that 100 units can be obtained, subtracting those three for which, by accident or otherwise, it proves to be wrongly acquired. In the field of economy, there is also a whole range of anomalies and these anomalies are also largely due to certain irregular decisions, greed, the formation of certain networks, within which, by setting up chain enterprises, it also happens that, simply at a time when someone in their free enterprise initiative, who sometimes goes to gambling or even some loopholes in the law – there is also a very strong initiative in Slovenia – when there comes a certain problem, they hire a network of strong lawyers who allow those people who have enough capital to have 5 to 10 years of time to park this property in some subsidiaries, newly established enterprises, and in these companies, peacefully or continue their activity, or, more safely, to the extent possible, they send this capital to foreign countries. And in this part this problem arises that truly honest, good entrepreneurs, mostly small ones, suffer these problems when they are simply without income for services provided, for input material and are receiving these bankruptcys, first of all subcontractors who have significantly less power to resist it for longer than those larger systems that have been created in one way or another. And this attempt, which we are bringing here today in this amendment to the GHS, is in this part to make it impossible for such people who are trying to engage in this chain of undertakings to obtain a ban, but at the same time to allow, as stated in Article 10a, third and fourth points, that the court allows a member who proves that it has not affected or that it is not his doing that has caused the bankruptcy of an undertaking, that it can also operate with this free economic activity. I think the intent in the law is already very clear. It is important to identify those who wish to acquire property illegally and then to park it in this chain of companies in a timely manner, where the property is then withdrawn from the creditors of this company and employees. I myself think and I am pleased that it is the general will for the law to go through this first hearing, and therefore it is also right to have a general debate, not to come directly to the second reading and only to the possibility of amendments, and to really determine at that time what needs to be added to the role of the State. I think it would actually be a little strange if, because of one case in the country, we could pick up the possibility of management in all companies. However, it is very wrong for those who have put those companies in question at a disadvantage on behalf of the State and given that they do not have any assets to limit themselves to such people. So I think the marriage has a lot of options. About the risk of individuals – I myself have run my own personal business for many years, I have also had 20 employees and the real risks are to be the owner, to run such a company if, on the other hand, you do not know when you will fall into the hands of one of such fraudsters, and there is no right to stop it. I think it is a risk for an individual to be in charge of this work, and I think it is right that everyone who is at risk is aware of this matter, but I am convinced that it will be significantly better for Slovenian entrepreneurship and for the development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia if these risks are such that each of them is aware of them and that the state also has the power to ensure that those who do not belong in the business sphere but are part of criminal acts and fraudsters, that they simply remove themselves from the entrepreneurial space of such people. I also agree that it is probably the power to add this limit in some way to limit time to not indefinitely. I think the law is open. In the Slovenian People's Party, as the president and the bill-maker have said, we are happy to have this general debate, we are happy to have a general purpose, and we look forward to the constructive approaches of all others and to the corrections that will improve this law and I think that they have solved something that Slovenians and Slovenes expect from Parliament in the field of entrepreneurship, economy, indeed these cancerous creations made by such entrepreneurs to withdraw, and that this entrepreneurship can indeed live freely, which is also the basis of our economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor. Prepare Jurša, Györek, Jerovšek, Kek or Mr Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I think that by supporting the law, by supporting the law, it is really impossible to say that we are against entrepreneurship in Slovenia. But we are against those innovative entrepreneurs who are only thinking about how they will reinvent or bring the country and the citizens around, and in this way they will be able to take advantage. Nor can it be said that this law will solve everything — since we do not claim to do so — but it will be difficult to reject the law at first reading, since the purpose and purpose are clear: to eliminate the anomalies that we have witnessed in the past and that we are witnessing to them even now. I also agree with the purpose and purpose of the proposalr, and therefore I support the law, because in our relatively short history of the market economy, we have all too often witnessed a situation where individuals could easily establish new businesses, although they were either directly involved as members of the management or supervisory authorities in ethically controversial transactions and procedures resulting in bankruptcy and the consequent dismissal of employees. They were followed by enormous amounts of outstanding, unpaid obligations, both from taxes and contributions and from contractual obligations. Many of these have lost their salaries for months to avoid talking about unpaid social security contributions, even years ago, so that they have lost their working hours. Those responsible for such irregularities, despite the irregularities identified, still have the opportunity to set up a company, a new company to which they transfer the healthy parts of the company and operate in the same way. I think that this is unacceptable and, by amending the Law on Economic Companies proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, such irregularities could be partly limited. Those responsible for such irregularities, despite the irregularities found, continue to have the same possibilities, so I think it is important that the amendment of the law be supported. It is also interesting that the Government and the Minister support these objectives, but, as usual, they do not think that the law is suitable for further consideration and does not propose such solutions, which I find strange, because of this way we will not come anywhere. I think it makes sense to support the law at first reading. In the course of the process, it can also improve both the rule of law and the resolution of individual shortcomings and the correction given the warnings proposed by both the Government and individual parliamentary groups. As it is said, I support the law at first reading, as this is also a step forward towards improving entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Ribič has the floor to prepare Mr Podkrižnik, Mrs Villar, Mr Juri, Mr Rožej, Mr Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! If we simplify, the essence of this law is the main objective – to prevent a severe anomaly in our legislation, when an individual can sink one, two, three companies, bring them into bankruptcy or forcible settlement before completely financial exhaustion and then continue to establish new and new businesses. You'll all agree that there's something missing here today. That there's a cut to be made in this area. But I'm reading the government's opinion that it's against the law. Most of them, of course, are concerned about what will happen to the country as owner if the law were adopted in such a form. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the country is a specific case. However, with respect, the State must also take a certain responsibility as owner and be aware that it has certain limitations and obligations in the management of companies. A country as owner in companies cannot act as an all-powerful entity to which laws do not apply. And second of all, what really bothered me was how government officials explained long and wide that everything was already regulated in the existing laws, that there was no problem at all, since adequate prohibitions and restrictions on irresponsible businessmen and managers already existed. Yes, of course it's written down. However, it is more than obvious, and we all know that these laws are being misused so that their content is not implemented in this area. I'm glad you're aware of the problem, but you're not. Now's your chance. The bill is on the table. Let's complement it, upgrade it, find more effective solutions. For the easiest thing to do is to say that the law is not suitable for further consideration and to promise some better solutions once in the future. This is completely irresponsible, especially for citizens and citizens who expect us to resolve these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Grill has the floor to prepare Mrs Brunskole or Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today it was already possible to see in the debate the rhetorical question whether we need such a law in Slovenia and, of course, if so, why. I believe that we need it, and this is the last time we have come to a marriage like this, even though it was by one discusser the power to detect resentment over the fact that this law interferes with the enterprise initiative and that everything has to be done to encourage the enterprise initiative and that it is in no way hindered or reversed. I share my own opinion, but as long as there is no enterprise initiative or entrepreneurship for some national sport, to cheat other businesses, to cheat employees and abuse the legal system we have. Why is that? Because it is increasingly evident that there is no legal system in place in Slovenia, unfortunately, legal certainty for everyone. I agree that a lot of hot thief or some "poor guy" who doesn't really have some kind of legal support is caught relatively quickly and convicted. What about the big fish? Let someone tell me whether in Slovenia we have cases of convicted persons who were then in prison or who are being punished. We had Mr Kovacic, the lawfully convicted, pardoned by the President of the State. As I know, Mr Grubelič, who was the first to be convicted of economic crime, has not served another day and is 20 years old. Mr Šuštršič was pardoned, who was also legally convicted. And now anyone can ask himself: From those who give him ideas about how to abuse the legal system, how to cheat another, why everyone hopes — because he knows that nothing can happen to him. This is proved by 20 years of practice. And let us ask ourselves why this is the case — do we have bad legislation? In the vast majority, we say no, and the Minister also points out that. Do we have a poor judicial system, we have poor investigative institutions or incompetent law enforcement agencies? Do we have political backgrounds here, political botts that support nothing that happens? I think it's probably everyone's thing, but the key thing is for sure that there are political backgrounds, political botts and bad, inefficient justice systems. That's what we all figure out. Therefore, it would probably be very useful for you, Madam Minister, to have Justice Minister Zalar sitting next to you, because there is a key problem in this department. Let's give Mr. Zidar back, and he's not the only one. In Germany, as we know, he was sentenced very quickly and was released from prison for one million euros against payment. With us, let's look at the clean shovel affair. For six months, the court shall prosecute the procedural forums of lawyers whether the evidence is obtained in the right way or not. And now I ask all of this, for me, is proof – proof. No matter how it was obtained; if it was obtained in an illegal way, it should be arranged in such a way that the person who thus acquired it will be sanctioned, not allowed to allow such evidence to be rejected through procedural "fores". And so far, I have not seen the initiative of the court to – for example, if the legislation is inadequate or inadequate – say, "change the law so that lawyers do not delay or reject them through procedural forums." I've never seen that before. And obviously there is one of those key arguments why our courts are so ineffective. There's probably customerism here, probably corruption, inefficiency, ignorance, lack of experience in the courts, but apparently there was no one here who would say, "Yeah, now we're going to try to work this out." For if we do not have effective courts, everything is more or less hopeless. We can't handle this with any law. I also agree with the proposal that the burden of proof be reversed. It's also because we're not talking here about some kind of prosecution or being convicted here of some kind of crime, but here, in fact, we can see more about the business incompetence or performance of someone who's intentional, and there are so many of those most notorious cases that all the steps were very well planned, all the procedures, how one enterprise and, of course, with employees getting into bankruptcy or in such a position that people were left to themselves, and then, of course, by the chaining of this matter then they accumulated capital for themselves. So I expect that this law will, of course, be adopted today, despite the fact that you, Madam Minister, have seen the disfavor of this law, not the idea. I am pleased, it is very rare in this mandate that the Government or ministers themselves perceive the problem, that they also see the well-intention of the applicants, especially if we are by the opposition, that this was all there for you to see, but given that it is now expected that the law of first reading will be successful, and that you, too, probably the other ministers, especially the judiciary, will be able to resolve this problem in other laws. I agree that this law, even if it is adopted in this form or slightly modified, will not fully solve this problem, but perhaps now this may be the first step in order to bring matters into order in a systematic way, but to prove that we also know in Slovenia that we also know those non-controversies that I believe are always a step in front of law enforcement and judicial authorities, but to prove to them that we care about the fate of thousands of people or even hundreds of thousands of people and, of course, also all those who have been unjustifiably at the expense of money, by means of fraud and fraud by some individuals. I'll be happy to support this marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres has the floor to prepare Mr Cernač, Jelinčič or Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I suppose the marriage will go to another reading, because the coalition colleagues are monitoring the matter in the offices, so I think we're on the right track. But there's something I'd like to say. The minister lives in fear that if we move forward with this law before us, we can cause new problems. Problems that could have major financial implications for the country. You know, I'm going to say, we've already taken the initiative to create a blacklist, and it was once again said, "I'm going to ruin the reputation of some businesses and entrepreneurs, we can't do that again." Please, an honest entrepreneur will never be on the blacklist. Those entrepreneurs who work honestly, as they should, simply need not be afraid of it. The lack of business ethics was also well said. In colleges, they teach that the entrepreneur is the last in line. The first is the worker, the suppliers, the taxes, the state, etc., and then what's left is ours. There are a lot of entrepreneurs in our country, but these entrepreneurs, who have led to this situation, which is, but they're transition entrepreneurs, and they've got something that they didn't do in the classical way that most entrepreneurs in Slovenia had to do, and they came in. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to your status. [[…]] It was said that we were always there. Have you forgotten? The likeness was very much in pursuit of SCT and would then have been otherwise privatized as it was in the end, but who could have gone? Marjan Podobnik. It was destroyed politically on the entire front and also on the Slovenian People's Party, and today we are gathering, as we know and know each other, and we are proposing good proposals, and no one hears and wants to hear it. By the way, analysis; yes, two and a half years ago, analysis should be done, and we should just pull out and act, not talk today about where we're going to get to the analysis. And the specific status of the state as owners can also be regulated by amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Bezjak has the word, to be prepared by Čepič, Potočnik, Slapnik, Tanko, Barovic, Posedel or Vlada. Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dearly greeted Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, I believe it is important to support the Law on Economic Companies. For one reason, because, after all, we have to start solving the problems that arise from the economy with regard to lumbarcies or the sending of businesses to bankruptcy. For, after all, we must be aware that companies or entrepreneurs that somehow have registered companies in stock and eventually place businesses from day to day or year into bankruptcy – are forced settlement and later bankruptcy. We know that today, as has already been said, it would be very good for Minister Zalar to be here, at the end of the day, there would be no more excuses that justice does not work, that the economy does not work, etc. I think that we all need to find a way together to find a solution to be a friendly promotion of the economy and that it will actually be to prevent the profits of economic operators, individual economists, who eventually seize state property and transfer it to their own advantage or to their own property. Therefore, it is actually important to adopt this law and to correct it and put it to life as it should have been. We know that certain things are very rigorous in this law, but we have to start somewhere, because if we're just going to say that it's wrong, these companies suck, they've screwed this company, and so on, then we'll never make a place. That is why I believe that there will be so much sense and that we will actually encourage the economy, because if we take this step today, the promotion of a fair economy will, of course, be the destruction of an unfair economy, so I believe that we will take steps and adopt the law and then correct with the corrections what is too rigorously written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you. Madam Minister has the floor. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I would like to reject some of the words or statements made primarily by the Members of the SLS, namely, Mr Ribič and Mr Kres, stating that I have written in my executions or in any way that we have written in the material that we demand or that we want the state to have any special status or state-owned enterprises here – this is simply not the case! In the material, we just wanted to introduce what such an arrangement as proposed in this law means for state-owned companies, because we wanted to show you in a plastic, simple, transparent way where such solutions can take you. We have pointed to the country's case because we assume that all of these companies know each other best – I don't know how many other economic complexes you know – because of the fact that it reveals what it can do if this law is enforced, we can run into it. To prevent one owner from doing business in any other company before he was proven guilty of doing anything wrong; this is what we wanted to show. This anomaly and this weakness of this bill, as I have already said in the introductions, is, in my opinion, to be finalized, eliminated, and we are also prepared to help with the solutions. Once again, please, I do not accept that in any way you are trying to present to the public or to this Parliament, that the state opposes or the Government opposes the regulation of this area – this is simply not the case! This is simply not the case, and we have also said in the beginning that we are opposed to or opposed to this bill, that the text of the law does not seem appropriate, or that it is insufficiently technical and insufficiently imaginative, which could just be accepted. I said that this text needs to be finalized, and we said that we are also ready to look for solutions that will be sustainable and that, on the other hand, in our desire to solve this problem of chain companies, will not open up new problems. I point out once again: believe me, when this law is enforced, I do not see a root in this country that would even want to be either a manager or a supervisor or set up a company in Slovenia, and I also see no reason why it would be if it could be established peacefully in any country around here. So once again, we're not against it. We welcome this intention, and together we will also try to complete it in this direction in order to bring real results. I would like to stress this once again: I continue to insist, and I am convinced that the true course of solving the problems that are causing us today to discuss these changes in law, individual cases which are also exposed in the public eye, is not the only or the right and optimal solution to change laws, but is the right way to improve the judicial system and prosecute these cases, to be more effective in persecuting these cases on the basis of the legal provisions already in place. Today, many of the provisions allowing for prosecution have already been mentioned in laws, not only in the Companies Act, including in the Penal Code and in the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures. The problem of this Slovenia is actually in their use and enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u89	Mag. Grouchy as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you. We are prepared, of course, as I have said several times that this law will be improved if we find better solutions. I didn't say that we're all conscious and that this marriage is the best thing that can be written. But I don't want us to sit around and watch what's going on around us. That's not what I'm for. And I therefore call on all fellow Members: let us take the first step, support the law in the first reading and consider what we can do in the next steps to improve this law, and yet achieve the basic idea or the fundamental intention of this law – to prevent those who are exploiting the legal voids that exploit this country for their own interests, for their own sakes. In doing so, they do not mind or look at anything, nor at those people who eventually lose everything, to stop you and prevent them from through the chaining, establishing their companies all this capital, which in some way is being spent in their lives, for their own faults, for their greed, for their own, as I would say, incomprehensibility to anything, that they, at last, also pay their share of responsibility, not only those who are not really guilty of what is happening in individual companies. In any case, workers have consequences, one way or another. It is right that part of the consequences for the problems are borne by those who are much more responsible than the employees themselves. So let's find solutions so that the anomalies that we've been monitoring for the last two, three years, we kind of stop them, we'll infect them to be smaller. It's the intention of this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Kres, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. See, in the Slovenian People's Party, we don't want to go into some kind of lynching of all entrepreneurs. That we have something clear – I am sorry that we have come into a situation today when we will have to close down businesses with knowledge that have good workers who have good technical skills. Only management has taken over the matter, and this is true for SCT, as well as for any other company. I don't know if it's good for us to be looking at Strabag's tables in Ljubljana and around. I'm not gonna say it shouldn't be, but it would be good if we did it alone, what we know how to do on our own. I don't know if that's how we can sell in other areas abroad, and we're getting funds that then flow back abroad. I think we need to do as much as we can ourselves at home. And construction activity is certainly one of those that can for some time alleviate this unemployment situation in Slovenia. And that is why I would like to make one list of really those entrepreneurs who have done too much damage to this country, who have only seen themselves and have simply left workers, entrepreneurs and subcontractors on their tail. And you've forgotten something – at this time, the suicides of entrepreneurs, which they are, I can say, have led us to these situations. Does anyone ask about those families, does anyone ask about those who loved these people, or does anyone ask about those workers? All of this has to be asked, and therefore nothing is completely blasphemous if we also talk about ending it once, but not money, I don't know where to get out. And one more thing. I highly doubt that the money they so easily received was also very well used. They're gonna have to work, they're gonna come back, and I don't know where they're gonna work. And because of this, it would be good to make this a once-in-a-lifetime order for those people in this country who love this country and who have the ethics that we talked about as entrepreneurs, you, too, are the Minister of Management, the economy, and you know very well what they taught us. We entrepreneurs are the last, everything else has to be paid first, and then we are. If we have managed well, we have profit, if we have not mastered it, we have no – our fault, or we do not go looking for other opportunities. And that is what I would like to see and the Slovenian People's Party to come to one such conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment and supplementation of the Law on Economic Companies with the proposal we have drawn up in the Slovenian People's Party is more than necessary. This has also been the case from the vast majority of the debates. And the minister at the end of the discussion, you said, "Yes, we're ready to support it, but some things need to be complemented." Madam Minister, in the Slovenian People's Party we have three professional associates, you have 300, so this law is here today at first reading, and it is right to accept it and to go from here together. As the proposalr said - absolutely willing to cooperate, how. Even more so, because there is simply no cooperation in this country, there is no willingness of anyone to listen to another opinion and then to do what is right for citizens and citizens together. It seems to me that there are too many lobbyists and that there are too few of us who are still Members and Members representing the interests of citizens and citizens, too few of us, but there are too many who are here for some purpose from the delegation of certain individual lobbyists. And the Minister, however, you said, "It may not be necessary to amend the Law on Economic Companies, but that the judicial system will work." Two and a half years you are a coalition and, of course, here, even in this way, it shows how neither within the coalition nor within the Government you cooperate, for such or other reasons. The judicial system belongs to one, i.e. the other competing coalition party of the LDS, and the economy belongs to you. And because outside people see this, because you can see that these Trens are big, easy too, take one step forward here, try to work here for once not with the coalition partner, but with the opposition. Show by your example that you can do this. And just as my colleague Franz said earlier, he warmly recommends to the government. Yes, after two and a half years, the government should have done something. They may even be able to complete the possibility of continuing this story too quickly. But today is what it is. We all know that it is necessary for the law to take this change to prevent some of the manipulations that have taken place, and finally all those who have stolen millions, hundreds of millions of millions, have taken it through other companies, through other accounts to other countries, the so-called silent shareholders, as we had here a debate about Daniel Toplek, the President of the Talum administration, who is now gone, but still the President of the Supervisory Board of the second largest Slovenian bank, but nothing has happened, nothing. [[…]] And the minister, it's not according to the law that he could have been, and what the Talum overseers found is not in accordance with the law, but nothing happened. On the opposition's side, when we warn you when we say when we get on paper, like I said, with one, two employees and your own engagement, then you say, "Yes, but make something better." No, that's what you're government for. You have a duty to run this country, not to exhaust this country, and to do something for people. Unfortunately, how many times has been said and how many times will it be, but there must be a coalition will to finally have a law on the reversed burden of proof; we do not have it because there is no interest because there are too many lobbyists, too many Members and Members who are sent to lobby and protect some backs and so on. No one in this country believes Minister Kresalov in connection with the rental of an NPU building and that it was economically, commercially. Was that good for the state? It's not. And Minister, support this, we'll make it better together, and you'll prove that you're willing to cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the conclusion of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the agenda, it's a debate about the Ministry's response to the Magnificent Economy. It is easier to work on the business question of Willy Trophenic in connection with the problem of the public procurement contract for the European Regional Development Fund – ERDF – the development centres of the Slovenian economy. At its 26th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by the Minister of Economy Mag. Darja Radic asked Willi Trophynik about the issue of the call for funds from the European Fund. I give the floor to Willie Trofenik for further explanation of the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister of Economy. Mr. Trofenik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u96	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. In the introduction to the debate on the response of the Minister of Economy to my question on the invitation to tender for the European Regional Development Fund under the title of the Slovenian Economic Development Centre, I would like to present the reasons for the question raised or for the proposal to hold a discussion on the answer to my question. At the time of the consideration of the EU's drawdown and use report for the period 2007-2009, there was a partial discrepancy between the ranking of Slovenian development regions on the basis of the Development Hazard Index and the ranking of development regions on the basis of Europe's per capita funds received. The development hazard index is an objective measure by which we measure or compare the development level of regions based on 12 parameters. Despite the important public funds spent, this should be the EU's funds or domestic public funds from the state budget, and currently no one is monitoring the effects of the use of these funds through the ongoing updating of the Development Hazard Index of individual regions. Thus, we cannot answer the fundamental question whether the development differences between regions are shrinking or even increasing. There are indications of this other poor option that the differences between regions are increasing. If these indications are true, serious questions are raised about the relevance and relevance of different policies, or it is difficult to talk about coherent regional development. In its consideration of the State aid report in the past month, the Committee on Finance found, from the State aid report for the period 2007-2009, that during the period considered the largest number of State aid, both in absolute terms and per capita, was received by the Central Slovenian region, even after the elimination of part of the State aid related to the Slovenian railways, which is best developed. The state aid received per capita amounts to EUR 733 in the Central Slovenian region, EUR 427 in Zasavska, EUR 250 in Goriška, compared to EUR 87 per capita in Spodnjesavska and EUR 95 in Notranjsko-kraska and EUR 112 per head in the region. Even after the exclusion of State aid received by the Slovenian Railways, the picture is not significantly different. The central Slovenian region received only EUR 621 per head instead of EUR 734. Something similar happened after a public call for the European Regional Development Fund – a development centre implemented last year by the Ministry of Economy totalling €185 million, from which reporters from Gorenjska managed to obtain €42.9 million, Savinjska €22.3 million, Pomurska 21,8 etc. The picture is slightly different if the appropriations are converted to the head of the population. In the first place is Notranjsko-kraška with poor 311 euros, followed by Gorenjska with 215, then Pomurska with 178 euros per head, Podravska with 37, Koroška with 42 and Spodnjeposavska with 59 euros, of course from the lower half after development, are in the company of recipients of the most developed Slovenian regions or the lower half. Or, in other words, six regions are ranked higher than the rankings according to the Development Hazard Index, four regions are ranked lower than the development ranking according to the Development Hazard Index and two regions are consistent. And what are the decisions made by the Ministry of the Economy? Firstly, the call was designed in such a way as to favour large capital-intensive enterprises, contrary to the action plan of the same Ministry, which concluded that support to small-scale R & D companies was key to the economic crisis breakthrough. Another time. In the invitation to tender, the Ministry of Economy has duly requested a statement from the Bank on a guarantee without a clear definition of whether it was a binding or non-binding bank statement and, given the situation in Slovenian banking, practically left banks to make indirect decisions on the selection of projects. Third time. The call favoured the value of large projects up to €45 million, for which it is difficult to secure their own participation, as a possible 20 million euro asset would require twice as much credit insurance. Fourth time. The Ministry did not require a pre-investment design to analyse the costs and benefits that would be necessary for such large assets, but only a business plan, which is contrary to the Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes. As a result, no findings were made. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u97	Mr. Trofenik, I'd like to finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'll say what's left in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Madam Mag. Darji Radic, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! Otherwise, the issue of Mr Trofenika is in fact focused on the issue of guarantees as one of the conditions for obtaining funds following the call for the promotion of the development centres of the Slovenian economy. This introductory presentation has actually gone into a completely different context, in the context of identifying what regional policy we are actually taking in this country, which is not the subject of this debate. Nevertheless, I can also say in my opening remarks that this implementation is clearly not understood by the context itself or the very purposes and objectives of the call to promote the centres of the Slovenian economy. The fact is that the call for the promotion of the development centres of the Slovenian economy represents one but only one of the key measures of the Ministry of Economy, which seeks to ensure a technological breakthrough in those technological areas where Slovenia, Slovenian companies already have knowledge, competence and, of course, adequate capital to make this breakthrough. This is why this call is intended not primarily for weak development regions, not to ensure that funds are provided fairly with respect to the region's head, but to invest in those companies, those groups of companies that already have sufficient capital, knowledge and competence to make a technological breakthrough. Why? In order for Slovenia to finally, once again, in areas where it has knowledge, move to a higher technological level to start creating higher added value as well as new jobs, better jobs, not those that will be paid at minimum wages. This is the basic ambition and objective of this call. The fact is, we cannot look at the invitation separately, but we must set it up or we cannot accept it as an instrument to cover and meet all the objectives, development objectives of this country. Regional objectives, the objectives we have in the area of promoting small and medium-sized enterprises, the objectives we have in promoting innovation, technological development. This specific call is not intended to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, although small and medium-sized enterprises can also be included as partners in development centres. To encourage small and medium-sized enterprises we have a whole set of other instruments, from encouraging beginners and giving them initial capital for the so-called start-up company in those stages where they cannot yet get money in banks. From developing a venture capital instrument, to grant subsidies for the purchase of technological equipment, to provide guarantees for loans and so on, especially for small businesses. It's a different policy. And this invitation to tender is not intended for them. This call is also not intended to primarily promote regional development. For this purpose, this country has other resources and other instruments to promote coherent regional development. However, although the original ambition of this call for the establishment of those developmental cores is to finally get to those, because of me also the parade horses that will lead this Slovenia forward, we have taken regional criteria into account in the criteria for selecting the best projects. We said, first of all, we will choose from eight – perhaps this should be said, and then perhaps I will explain the rules more later – first of all, we have given and selected eight projects from every technological area, defined, selected the best project, best by quality. Then, in the second phase, we made sure that at least one development centre was given to each region, of course, if the applications came from there. If there are no applications, we can't allocate funds to the project. On this basis, out of 42 selected projects, we were able to confirm 17 development centres of the Slovenian economy. 17 centres that promise or promise to create new jobs in the coming years, new products from which new companies will grow with products that will deliver higher added value. So much possible in the introduction. I think there will be plenty of opportunities in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. You're giving up? Then Mr Franz Bogovich, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u102	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleague, colleague, distinguished minister! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already drawn attention to the issue of drawing up European funds, particularly in the low number of calls for proposals, the ineffective preparation of procedures for preparing and implementing public calls for proposals to co-finance projects from European funds, and the large delays in preparing requests for reimbursement from the EU budget, which, for example, led to the negative situation of the state budget in February 2011 compared to the EU budget. Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the purpose of the invitation to tender was basically good, as it wanted to encourage the operation of development centres, which will offer innovative solutions with a focus on higher added value, and this is how we need to improve the economic situation. However, the question of the proper execution of the tender procedure is once again raised, where obviously something was wrong, because of the indeterminable tendering conditions and, in particular, the bank's statements for the granting of the bank guarantee occurred when the tendering conditions changed in the middle of the procedure. In this regard, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with Mr Trofenic, who estimates that, due to the indeterminate tender conditions for the allocation of European funds, the banks have indeed decided which favoured those companies or projects from which they will benefit themselves. It is understandable that in such calls, everyone will never be satisfied and that there will always be insufficient resources for all those who apply for such invitations. However, this amount of resources must be allocated in full fair and balanced terms, in view of the development or underdevelopment of an area, which, in our view, has not been fully taken into account in this call. We therefore believe that all possible irregularities in this call must be properly investigated, either by the Court of Auditors or in administrative disputes raised by certain not-elected applicants. It can also happen that we will be reminded again by the European Commission, as it did in the case of the allocation of funds to the Stožice Sports Park. The call for the Slovenian Economic Development Centre selected 17 projects to be co-financed by the Ministry of Economy at around €180 million. When presenting the results of the call, the Minister comforted the unchosen projects in order to be able to run for development funds of €93 million for the regional incentives available to the SVRL. We wonder where these funds are, where the calls are, if these funds are available. Of course, we also wonder that this is not again an intervention in the development programme of the regions, which has already been attacked several times in the past by this government. To date, the SVR has not published any call for more funds, and the appropriate time for such calls is unlikely to be such as today’s difficult times. As I mentioned at the outset, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are constantly reminding ourselves of the inadequate management of regional policy, where the situation is catastrophic in the SVRL, since three ministers have been replaced in good two years and the resignation of the last minister has, in our opinion, killed the last nail in the baptism of the SVRL, since the area for accession to any other ministry or government service is more than ideal. This, in our view, would represent a major step back in the area of European funds drawback and the permanent loss of work of successfully negotiated funds from the previous mandate. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we ask what are the reasons for the continuing human resources shortages at the SVRL, successfully led by Dr. Ivan Žagar throughout the past mandate, and the result of this work has been the extremely successful withdrawal of funds from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund between 2004 and 2006 of €4.2 billion of European funds for all three operational programmes in the 2007-2013 programming period and €1.5 billion of allocated funds in a good year. Today, however, the situation in terms of drawing on European funds is more than ideal. The problems have been lingering since 2009, when the State Secretary’s unauthorized intervention in the SVREZ mags has led to problems. Andrej Jerina's withdrawal was stopped for a few months, and today there is a great backlog in the preparation of requests for reimbursement from the European budget, which was pointed out in December by Mr Križanič, Minister of Finance and then Minister of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Mr Gjerkes. Some projects are also at risk as the country is no longer able to finance projects to this extent or to credit projects with funds from its budget. The situation this month also revealed the inability of ministries to prepare claims for reimbursement, as the net state of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was negative compared to the EU budget. In 2010, the EU budget for Structural Funds in the EU for the financing of the three operational programmes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2010 accounted for some more than €363 million, and from the Cohesion Fund came a good €94 million, which is significantly less than the amounts foreseen in the last budget balance. In 2010, only around 11% of all the funds available in Slovenia for the financial perspective 2007-2013 flowed into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At such a slow pace of drawing, something will soon be wiped out under the nose for millions, which will remain in the European budget forever, even though it is a means that can make a substantial contribution to the recovery of the Slovenian economy. Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the situation in the whole area of European funds is worrying, and we call on the President of the Government to ensure the normal functioning of the SVRL and other ministries that manage European funds, otherwise the Republic of Slovenia will lose an even greater part of the EU budget, resulting in the halting of some development projects and the deterioration of the net position of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you. Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the issue on the agenda today. The undeniable fact is that there are still major differences in development between Slovenian regions, although the Republic of Slovenia has had a policy history of promoting coherent regional development for more than 30 years. As the negotiations for integration into European cohesion policy are concluded, we have joined the reform of regional policy by establishing new systems, conditions for its implementation. We have received a new law on promoting coherent regional development. Strategic frameworks at country level have also been adopted, and we have received key institutions to ensure, operate and promote coherent regional development. Since 2004, Slovenia has been eligible for EU cohesion policy funding. One of the most recent measures, in line with the development priorities of the Slovenian Government, was the preparation of a public call for funding from the European Regional Development Fund of the Slovenian Economy. With it, the Ministry of Economy wanted to encourage the establishment and operation of development centres of the Slovenian economy for long-term developmental content in various fields. It is about supporting projects that include both development work and the necessary equipment and other infrastructure that enables companies to develop, their competences and long-term foundations for growth and economic development and will enable technological breakthroughs in areas where there is already a critical mass for them in Slovenia. The call for funds amounted to slightly more than 185 million, of which at least 30 million euros were earmarked for priorities under the Development Support Act of the Pomur Region for the period 2010-2015. However, the results of the invitation to tender show that the resources under the invitation to tender have been quite unevenly distributed. Of the 17 projects selected, 5 come from Gorenjska, some less than €45 million, and three projects totalling €26.5 million were selected from the Pomeranian region. However, only one project worth €3.5 million of the total three reported was selected from Koroška, for example, which was promised by the Government during the last visit, especially since Koroška requested an intervention law following the example of Pomurje, which the Government did not favour. One of the projects was also selected from other less developed regions, such as Zasavska and Podravska. Therefore, according to the available means of tendering and their distribution by other regions, Gorenska, one of the more developed regions, obtained the highest. Data on the use of European funds, including regional development incentives, also undeniably demonstrate that these do not contribute to reducing the development differences between regions, but are increasing each year. It is also clear from the State aid report for the period 2007-2009 that the largest proportion of State aid received during this period was the most developed region, with 733 euros per capita, while the region with a lower share of State aid received 87 euros per head. It is therefore so important that calls for the co-financing of programmes for the development of the Slovenian economy prepared by all three key ministries, namely the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, clear, precise, uncomplicated, transparent and non-discriminatory. Since the earlier invitation to tender by the Ministry of the Economy has changed in the tendering process itself and since the funds have been allocated to more developed regions with successful companies, the call itself is, of course, and, as a consequence, the competent Minister has significant and sharp criticisms. One of the biggest indications is that the Ministry of Economy has made a call by modifying the tendering conditions immediately before the end of the tendering period in such a way that the results of the tender were actually decided by the banks. Thus, the recipients of the funds referred to in that call should be the companies whose directors sit in or manage the supervisory boards of banks. We have not verified these arguments by the motioner of today's debate in the Group of Members, because we believe that there are other institutions that will decide what is true and what is not. However, we are saddened by the fact that in Slovenia, despite the recently adopted Law on Harmonised Regional Development, we do not find a common language and the right path to co-finance projects in those regions in need of national and European financial assistance. Obviously, unelected projects have not been badly prepared, they do not hold serious judgment, as we believe that all three key ministries should offer appropriate training, education and support to Slovenian economists in order to successfully prepare projects and applications for such and different calls for co-financing or for obtaining European funds. After all, we can ask ourselves what regional development centres or agencies are for, if not to care for the equitable development of Slovenian regions, including through education, how to obtain different forms of co-financing. In the DeSUS Group, we believe it is right that we are discussing this issue today, because it would be unacceptable for banks to be the ones who would eventually decide who would be chosen on such calls. However, we hope that it will prove that the applicant's findings do not hold, as this would mean that the competent ministries have handed over the development of the Slovenian economy to banks instead of taking care of better and more coordinated development of the Slovenian regions themselves. This would be a very poor journey for the development of the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Minister, once again a good day! In fact, one wonders whether he is looking for a conclusion, but the very essence of this debate is to draw attention to what we believe or believe is wrong and wrong. [[…]] Now to intervene in different areas, in individual regions, in individual cities, the individual village is typical of Slovenian, i.e. dissatisfaction over the planks, but regardless of that I feel that I have correctly understood my respected colleague Trofenika, that the essence of the whole question is, why, in what way and when has the criterion of bank guarantee been created which is used within the process of determining compliance. We have heard that, while it is a matter of disagreement between the ranking of the development regions, the question arises that differences between regions do not diminish but increase that on one side most of the development aid is there, at least there, because I say this is already the typical Slovenian, but they also say that where there is smoke, there is fire. I think it is right to say a word or two, although I think it is part of everything we ask at this point, also some other ministries and ministers, and not just Radic. I think we have here the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, where unfortunately we have no luck with ministers and – you know where the cats are, the mice are dancing, so we are where we are. And in fact, this ministry deals with itself, not essential issues. On the other hand, we have another minister who's supposed to be dealing with these content, but he's not. So today it's Mrs. Radic who's on the ground. Nevertheless, I think it is right to hear the answer to the essential question, why and when, in what way a bank guarantee has become a criterion. We understand the ministry's response, which says a double guarantee is needed for the loan. That's a little weird. If, I don't know, you get $40 million, I mean, European funds, and you have to give half yourself, give 20 million, you have to have 40 million, now you have bank guarantees. It sucks that you don't even, I don't know whether you're getting credit or you're getting money. Let's leave now, whether you're getting or hiring credit. On the other hand, according to the state of the banks, regardless of whose property they are, it seems a very correct question of their objectivity to someone. Of course, any banker would rather give something to the one who already has something, but the one who already has something will, of course, get more for it. And now we're essentially asking if we're going retrograde. It means that the truth is that whoever has a lot gets more, but the one who doesn't, can't get it because the bank doesn't give him a guarantee. If it does not, of course it falls away from the acquisition of European funds and we are where the issue begins. Dear colleague Willi also made it clear that it is also an essential question why and by what principle the Bank should decide how European funds are allocated when we have competent ministries when we have requirements, needs and certain objectives. So I think it's right that we get some specific answers, not only that we are now pronouncing each of these; I don't know, I'm from Zasavje, I'll always say that it's not enough, even though we've been trying and in our congregation we're in those eight years when I would have gotten everything we wanted, but we had to do something about it ourselves. So here, too, I would say that objectivity is necessary, and that those who are searchers of European funds, such or otherwise, should also be called upon to do their utmost to meet all the conditions. But it's not right that when someone meets all the conditions that a bank decides about him and says no, I don't give him a guarantee because, I don't know, because I don't like him because I don't like him because he's not real because he's not from here because the Reasons are a hundred. [[...]] Of course, everyone for a bank guarantee would not dare to ask that he would have nothing, but he would have demanded for no one to know how many million bank guarantees. So the role of the bank here is very questionable. The role of the process, as Mr Trophynik said, is also questionable because, of course, those who have already developed and have even more. However, those who do not and would like to, but cannot, simply because of the reason given to the form seven, the bank's statement that the applicant for the project receives or does not receive a bank guarantee. If we get specific answers, okay, if not, I think we should point out such shortcomings and that we must be united in the goal of helping each other with subsidiarity as equal members of the European Union. So if we are willing to lend, in particular, direct credit to Greece already in two tranches, if we are willing to give from our share of the guarantee also a guarantee to Portugal, we must also be so demanding as the State of the Republic of Slovenia, that Europe also gives us what belongs to us in our development process, so that we can remain the same to other European countries and that thanks to this assistance, we can, of course, receive and assist reciprocally. I think this is a good debate. I think we should have warned her. I think it would be good to have a concrete answer, what role does the bank have here, what role does the bank actually have, who does not get and who does not get or who does not, in the opinion of the Minister present, the criteria of this bank are objective in granting guarantees to applicants for European funds. So much for the Slovenian National Party. Thank you for listening to me. I've used up almost all the time, so I don't think anyone's gonna come by to see if we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Mr Willi Rezman, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We, I must admit, at first thought that we would be discussing the very issue that we, I hope, had exactly understood in the way that the Magus was being set up. Radics in this sense, whether the bank guarantees, the validity of their deadlines and changes in terms of what might have had a significant impact on the choice regarding the call to support the development centres of the Slovenian economy. That was the basic question. In fact, there is nothing more to say about it today, but attention is focused elsewhere, on other areas, also important. No one can deny it. However, it would probably be a mistake to turn this debate into a debate on what regional development is like and what injustices are happening in Slovenia in this regard and on how to draw on European funds and so on. The first thing to say is that if we wanted the real debate to go on about it, then we should actually, although he probably doesn't know much about it, sit with us, Dr. Žekš. He is responsible for some of the issues that have been most raised. Secondly, it must be said that lamentation about everything is probably not meaningful right now and that it is better to focus on one of the key problems, that is, the problem of how to direct those who are best with us and who can contribute to a development breakthrough. Thirdly, what needs to be said may point out that a Commission meeting has already been called on to monitor public finances, the agenda of which is to draw on European funds. It is likely that we will not repeat these debates at every session now, and that is why it does not seem to be the most prudent debate today and has not been the call that we should be particularly prepared to do so. Otherwise, according to our assessment, the need for such calls, such as the invitation to tender for the development centres of the Slovenian economy, is great. Let us list some of the facts that arise from such calls. Over the last period we have been very fond of looking at the Slovenian competitiveness scale and also the Slovenian economy, of course. It's very bad for us, and we're not moving any higher. As far as the productivity of the Slovenian economy is concerned, the picture is similarly poor. As far as the added value of an employee is concerned, we also have no particular reason to be happy and not to go up like it would have been necessary. For example, as regards electricity consumption per unit of our product, we are far from what we should achieve. As regards capital adequacy, corporate indebtedness and so on and so on, these are all problems related to this call. So this call or these funds from this call can do something, not dramatic, but can help to make things better, especially given that fragmentation in Slovenia is both staff, experience, technological development, finance, that is, resources to promote this development, that there is a large fragmentation and that one of the objectives of this call was integration. As far as this call is concerned, it has the ambition to help good companies by public means, so that they can accelerate their well-being, that they can interconnect companies among themselves, and that they will also be inter-regionally, this is evident from the results of the call, that is, that is, as far as this is concerned, this call was as right as possible, it is not taken into account whether any errors have been made in the proceedings later. For the country has no role and probably not only an ambition to support those who are struggling scrupulously to preserve jobs; this is also its role, which we have been carrying out over the past two years, and to this end we have also committed extremely large resources, significantly greater resources than the resources that have been earmarked for development. The country must also be proactive in that those who are good, who are the best, who have their projects that are ready for integration, supports and opens doors to them, by improving the business environment for them as well. It is not just to prevent something from falling apart, but also to focus more on development ambitions. Just by the way – even in the case of scholarships, we do not grant scholarships, although we give them to most of them only for state subsidies, but with scholarships we also encourage those who are above average, including those who are more needed, for example, in staff scholarships, or those who study something that is deficient with us. So in various areas, we need to be able to create solutions that will help those who are better to overcome obstacles and meet their ambitions more quickly. For others who will follow this, this is equally beneficial, and many have from such a development that they themselves are not capable of, great benefits, and then there are many possible synergies. We also have good companies, thank God we have them. We also have good companies that are ready to connect. There were also some companies that were good, which had programmes, but were too narrow for them because they were not prepared to connect to new companies for new products, but they would probably be given an opportunity at some other, otherwise targeted invitation to tender. Now it was about calls for new products, for new services, for new materials, for new companies and for integration. And in doing so, the regionality criteria have not been particularly exposed from the very beginning, and now, after the call for proposals and the results we have been familiar with, we can see that companies have found themselves across regional borders, that they are carriers of certain projects from another region, such as most of the activities to be carried out, so we have carriers from one region and the activity will be carried out elsewhere, and here it would be difficult to see that there were any obstacles to interregional or any other integration; the stimulus was to connect. We have also seen that, when we read who is involved, companies that are good, who can be exemplary and who can also turn these funds into new products, and we hope that they can also become new quality jobs. If this call is sufficient to these basic objectives, we can only be happy that it was as it was for each of the members of the group to find a question, what is the issue; we have been asked how some other sectors have not been found, or that some regions have not applied with more projects, but it is a matter of willingness for those who are running for funds. This country alone cannot replace it. We therefore believe that the invitation to tender has been well measured and we hope that the results will also be positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u109	Mr Anton Kampush has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u110	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Mrs Radiceva, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. First of all, let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we strongly support this call, which is the basis for Mr Trofenik's question, and of course we cannot doubt the choice of applications made by the Ministry of Economy. The fact is that the level of resources was limited and the application for co-financing was significantly more than the means. It is clear that in such cases it is necessary to make a selection of those proposing that will actually provide the best basis for achieving the objectives of the entire call for proposals, which is long-term development in several substantive areas. As the Minister said in her reply, the partially amended requirement of the banking guarantee condition did not affect the selection of applicants. We also agree with only the demand for a bank guarantee and even more; we hope that such a condition will be specified in all future calls. Several times in the past, funds have not been properly used or projects have not been fully implemented, and these cases also partly result in poorer European funding. On the other hand, they also cast a bad light on the entire tenders. Moreover, there is no denying the fact that the Minister has pointed out that it is not a matter of helping poorly standing or small businesses. Large subsidies simply require a large share of their own resources and can only be provided by large companies or consortia. Such companies have ensured, in the course of good business in the past, that they obtain demanding bank guarantees, regardless of who sits on any supervisory board or administration. Moreover, I do not believe in the insinuation that the actual impact of those directors of companies, who are at the same time in the supervisory boards of certain banks, was really as great as the proposer attributed – at least I hope that is not the case. It would probably be best to make this information publicly available to the applicant. It has thus become more credible in doubt about the appropriateness of the choice, and given that the actual charge is rather severe and a border charge of corruption, while at the same time the call itself does not have much to do, we propose that the proposer report his apparent anti-corruption commission and let it do its work. The Ministry of Economy has done its part by preparing an invitation to tender, which is appropriate in our eyes. On the basis of the invitation to tender, it also selected the most appropriate bidders under clear tendering conditions. This concludes the role of the Ministry in the invitation to tender. Only monitoring of the implementation of projects and of the funds involved is followed. At the same time, we can hope that the funds allocated will meet the expectations and purpose of the call, and this is a restructuring of our economies, which can only be implemented by excellent companies in the economy, and thus we can also obtain a large number of new products, products that are oriented towards the global market and have higher added value to the objective. Otherwise, we are confident that banks will also be responsible, and this time I can call banks as guarantors, and consequently all those who have participated in the granting of guarantees. By doing so, they will also receive an epilogue that can be understood in an additional explanation of the question. All those who have looked at the invitation to tender, which we all have on the table, can be said that this time it is a completely new goal in Slovenia, namely for new consortia. This is a new approach in Slovenia, according to my assessment in the right direction. Anyone who has reviewed this material and read the results of this invitation to tender has been able to understand from the titles of the companies that have acquired these projects in order to make new materials this time, for new products or products, for new technologies, to take into account innovations, to take account of new energy, so this ensures an economic breakthrough in many ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u112	Mr Trofenik, Commissioner for this debate today, drew attention to the issue, as well as to some possibility of taking a biased decision in the allocation of the European Regional Development Fund in the context of the invitation to tender for the Development Centres of the Slovenian Economy. Always, when more applicants were on a call than the available money, there was such a clear statement, and given that it is not coming from politically motivated circles now, probably because it comes from the circles of the current coalition, they would believe it is true. It is right, therefore, that those who draw up the call for tender, the call for tenders and so on, from the first to the last letter, are responsible for the divestiture of money or for those projects selected on the call for proposals, not to include people from the banking sector or others who may also have a biased or personal interest in this decision-making network. And the very shadow of this discovery, and of this doubt, falls upon this call, which was planned correctly, is interesting. The purpose of this call is to connect those development potentials that have already proven and have ideas for the future that have already proven to know and have concrete ideas for how to take any step in creating new jobs and better jobs and what innovative service product can result from such a call. However, once again: if the criteria and all procedures are correct and the Ministry assumes full responsibility for the results and recovery. Here the shadow of doubt has fallen on this second part and there is evidence of customerism, in fact that people have also decided on these calls because they wanted to take water to their mill because they wanted to take water, so I would say regionally disproportionately divided by their heads and by their developmental hazard index, as proposed by today's panellist in his introduction. This actually raises more questions than it closes. And I wonder how the ministry will assess the added value of the money spent, especially because I have spoken to some of the funds that have been declared and approved, and in fact they do not know how they will and how they will spend it. In fact, they don't even make sense of the projects. That's a fact, Your Honor. If you don't know that, go ask people, and they won't tell you, of course, because they don't hope because they got the money and they can't talk about it. However, in fact, this call has led to the emergence, as many times so far as it has been, of companies actually joining together, only because they will receive money on the call, but not because there is a really good, breakthrough, technologically completed project in the background that will open new prospects for these companies. Perhaps some in this network or one that is actually a linker, but the vast majority are not, and, of course, it is also under question the purpose and proceeds of this call. This is relatively large money, 185 million from the European Regional Development Fund. And I ask myself, or even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, given that we have a different approach with these large pro-pulsive companies and small businesses. In fact, there are no subsidies or such a way of providing non-refundable funding for small businesses. There are small businesses down on some credit lines, which is credited, not non-refundable funds. Here, we have a different approach with large pro-pulsive companies. We have access to these subsidies, not credits. And perhaps a very interesting question – on the basis of which the Ministry has decided to limit the subsidisation of small and medium-sized enterprises’ development projects – is said to be through grants – in particular, they are given different credit lines of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, and how these large companies have decided on such an approach, not the same as there. This call also raises the issue of actually securing the promised implementation of the project itself, as we know that we have a limited financial perspective. We know that we have a limited amount of money at our disposal and therefore how to ensure that the companies allocated the money will spend it. The Ministry has decided here to secure this with bank guarantees, in the meantime it has even changed some of the terms of the invitation to tender, which all inspires, gives some instability and also causes some disruption to this process of designing quality projects and applications. I believe that, last but not least, I have been in this skin in the past, one in-depth analysis of projects by the competent call for proposals, and not only an analysis of the projects that have been reported, but also of the projects that have been reported, is largely the answer to this question, whether money will be used effectively and efficiently. All these forms of bank guarantees further make it difficult, collect and encourage these projects and, of course, with all this paperwork, these costs are then also raised by the issue of attractiveness and, in fact, meaning, as all these costs need to be added to the project in order to obtain a proper financial structure. Therefore, it is certain that this call raises questions and is likely to be followed by a discussion today on the integrity and adequacy of the measures and the correctness of the measures to promote the economic development of the Ministry of Economy. I know that there are many economic policy measures in the hands of other departments, especially financial ones, when we are talking about tax policy, as well as the department of work, the family, when we are talking about the labour market. However, some economic policy measures are also in the hands of the Ministry of the Economy, particularly when companies are burdened by various bureaucratic barriers and, of course, when funds are used to promote economic projects. I have a feeling, or even as I have now seen on the website of calls for proposals this year and the previous years of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which has been one of the main holders of these policies so far, I must say that there is a great asymmetry when we are talking about supporting, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises, both through the technology agency, JAPTI and this specific call. So it is not surprising that in Slovenia we are facing such a problem that we cannot from this bottom of the economic recession. So, we have fallen very "feast" in 2009 and 2010, now really slowly, but we are picking up too slowly, there are no jobs, more or less will now be seasonal jobs because the summer season and various jobs are coming up, but this is not the solution, of course, to slightly mitigate the situation in the labour market with these seasonal phenomena. The key is whether we will actually be able to do what is also the formal objective of this call – some technological building as successful as, of course, those who can become successful with good programmes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we visit all Slovenian regions and businesses in these regions, because we want information, impressions from the environment, that is, from different backgrounds. We visit a number of companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises. We already have quite some experience in that companies have very interesting products, business plans, but because of financial upheaval and other funding constraints they simply cannot do so in practice. As a result, we do not take advantage of the potential of these companies and the result is that a number of jobs that could be opened remain closed. As a result, we also have accumulated problems with the number of unemployed, as a result also with a lot or more social transfers than is necessary, and with that unfortunate two billion-dollar gap in the budget. However, such an invitation to tender, namely the Ministry of the Economy's policy on the allocation of these funds, can have a significant impact on the resolution of these key accumulated problems. I think this policy is relatively inadequate. Allow me to speak to you about a regional component that has also been heavily exposed by the proposer. I think it is very important that the Government and other departments, not only the Ministry of the Economy, recognise projects, development projects of the Slovenian regions, which have put the regions themselves in the priority of their future development, without seeking and hindering, I don't know, a bunch of officials somewhere in Ljubljana or in some centres, what would be good for a region. It is necessary to listen to the same region and to support those projects if they are healthy. I'm afraid this isn't happening. Here today was mentioned the Lower Posava region, which was more at the bottom than elsewhere after all these developmental hazard indices. Even when we are talking about the allocations, there is also a more or less sad picture, while we recognize the Posavci themselves as a good development project. For example, further investments in the low-level chain of hydroelectric power plants, including the resolution of other energy issues in this country, are being delayed, and projects are not accelerating – but they are not costing the country virtually any more money because this money to complete this chain will have to be given anyway. It is probably better to give it earlier and that the effect of this investment, rather than delaying it, is, of course, more expensive investment and the effects of this investment come later. So, I would like to emphasise that certain regions also have very clear concepts, very clear ideas. The result is more or less speculation in Ljubljana, but not support. Here I do not think of the Ministry of Economy as much as the Ministry of Environment and Space, where we obviously have a professor who is experimenting with citizens and we are obviously part of the experiment also Posavci because he sees how long we will survive without his favor. That is why I would like to stress, respectable, that such measures as this project, the Slovenian Economic Development Centres, should reflect some partial instrument of one coherent policy of revitalising economic activity and creating new jobs. Instead, it remains in the ears and in the heads of the distasteful call that it is once again a clientelistic project, where dedicated companies will receive tens of millions of European and thus our money through dedicated banks and dedicated individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Before I give the floor to the applicants, Mr Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Allow me to conclude what was not possible in the introduction or presentation because of the time limit. To remind myself, I interrupted the fourth statement, if I say so, in saying that the Ministry did not require a pre-investment design to analyse the costs and benefits that would be necessary for such large assets, but only a business plan, which is contrary to the Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes. As a result, the so-called financial gap has not been identified, which under the criteria of the European Union is a condition for the granting of state grants for projects which show a great social benefit on the basis of economic analysis and are unprofitable for an individual investor. The fact is that the financial gaps could not be demonstrated by large companies, which would be able to fund projects on their own without grants, as I will later show in the debate. Fifth. The Ministry did not appoint an interdepartmental commission, expert, in accordance with the above-mentioned regulation, for projects worth more than EUR 25 million. In its reply to my question, the Minister has practically acknowledged both a binding banking statement and a conscious decision for large financial firms, which is problematic both in terms of the rules in force and in terms of the prudent and economic use of public funds and, last but not least, in terms of the follow-up to the objective of coherent regional development. It is not only the invitation to tender which I point out, but also the selection of projects which have been recognised as grants, as it cannot be forgotten that most of the energy in this regard has been devoted to finding reasons for rejecting individual projects rather than finding the best. To return to the originally exposed bank guarantee. No one challenges the normal bank guarantee when the project is approved to ensure the purposeful use of funds. But this is something else, simply stated, that a valid bank guarantee had to be given for a project that had not yet been approved. And this procedure is such in the case of Slovenian banks that it was necessary, the invitation to tender was concluded on 15 November last year, and one of the banks allowed itself to respond to such a role on 17 December. How should the project be selected? He didn't even come to the evaluation. Therefore, it is not possible to say that the best projects were selected on one or the other key, because we do not know which projects were the best, some for formal reasons. Secondly, it's about nonconsistency in the answers. Initially exposed and still current bank guarantee was the answer so, "take the magnetogram, yes, because we did not then take it as a criterion". [[…]] Interesting. First of all, the applicant was reminded that the application was incomplete because it did not have the appropriate guarantee. 8 days to supplement the application when no guarantee can be obtained within eight days in the Slovenian banking system, not within a month. Then deliver the guarantee one day too late and it's gone. Now you're saying that these criteria have not been applied. Otherwise, for two identical projects two different reasons why they were not selected. Of course, I believe that it is not the Ministry of Economy's core mission to take care of coherent regional development, but I hope that it does not understand its mission by worrying about its decisions on incompatible development, because "we are not responsible for coherent development", you know, it is a little too severe. And because there was no financial gap, we came up with a result – the approval of funds where state grants amount to 8% of the company's annual profits. Does this mean that this company could not carry out this project on its own and that these funds could be loaded elsewhere for such or other breakthroughs more useful? Therefore, the matter is not as simple as it looks at first sight and as some of the presentations have made it clear. I will respect two things – the Rules of Procedure, that with the presentation of views it is not possible to negate, although it would necessarily be necessary in terms of what is said, but I will not take this right, because then I would knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure. And, of course, on the other hand, I will not use the names of companies, because that is wrong, and each of my comments stands on specific companies. From what has been pointed out today, the objective of something else has been very simplistic for those who accompany it, it does not bear serious criticism. Within the framework of the invitation to tender 185 million were also obligations under the law of purgatory. And it just doesn't work out. That the game is even more interesting – result: $30 million within 185 million under the law of purgatory is not used. Apparently, according to the Ministry, there were no adequate projects. But they also fell out of this area for such formal, not substantive reasons, projects were not even evaluated. My illustration at the outset was not to direct the topic or the problem to other areas, but rather to illustrate that we have a strange situation, that we are spending huge public resources, whether domestic or EU, but we are not monitoring their effects. However, these effects are reflected in more coherent or less coherent regional development. That's all that was meant to be an illustration, an indication of that data. And, of course, if anyone thinks that the consumption of state aid has been a billion 200 million in three years of insignificant spending and, forgive me, except that in the late hours of the evening, I, on the committee, had not heard a single debate on the parental committee, let alone come to the plenary session. [[…]] The use of European funds in this financial perspective for 2007, 2008 and 2009 did not come to the plenary session; it was not welcome to attend the plenary session. The report on the implementation of the first year of the law of purgatory – it was not the political will to attend the plenary session. This shows a relationship or conclusion that each one of us can make for himself. Of course, I don't see it coming, because it sounds like my questions are mean. Absolutely not. I believe that questions are also a purely normal matter to my minister as a coalition, because I point out things that, I am sure, are not good and should be better. And that doesn't have any sexual background or anything else personal to try in some circles. But according to this regime, which has 12 regions, developmental or statistical, 14 regions appear on the ministerial website, 2 regions that do not exist at all. [[…]] Or because of superficiality, in Styria we call it slempy, or it's meant for something else to blur the actual data. And of course, that comments, even insinuations, as I have heard, one of the investors had difficulty because the annex on the composition or design of the consortium, which was urgently needed, were found to have accepted, too late, the annex to the consortium contract. [[…]] Then, in April, we understand from the media that the consortium, which was successful in the selection, barely accepts the consortium contract in April. You know, this is all over. And I think that you, the Ministry, will have to take a close look at the whole procedure, even the evaluation, and also those who were formally or excluded from coming to the evaluation at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u115	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Sylven Tiny. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor. They should prepare themselves for Franco Juri, Janko Weber, Radovan Žerjav, Renata Brunskole, I do not see any, Miran Györek, Matevž Frangež and we will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased that this issue has been voted on and that we have the opportunity to discuss this at today's meeting. There was much to be said, and there is still much unanswered, and there is likely to be a lot of confusion after this discussion. However, the fact remains that this call for the development centres of the Slovenian economy, which was worth €180 million, was virtually directed only to large capital-intensive companies, followed by selected companies. Despite the adoption by the Ministry of Economy in May 2010 of an action plan for small businesses, which, in line with the views adopted by the European Union, notes that support for small, dynamic, developmental and research enterprises is key to breaking the economic crisis under the heading "Think Small First". This fact has somehow been rejected in this call, as well as in a number of calls over the last period, which in some ways no longer follows that this country supports coherent regional development, but mainly supports large and those who are able to get through the rules of the game to the appropriate resources. The Ministry of Economy has directed this call in exactly the opposite of its own direction, of course for the benefit of large companies in particular. Also, the fact that the applicant must submit a statement in the application to the bank that it will give a guarantee in the event that the project is selected on the tender is somehow a strange decision. After some awkwardness or for some purpose, it was also unclear in the invitation to tender whether it was a binding declaration or whether, as provided for in the Bond Code, it was mandatory. Here we meet again with double standards. When we are talking about a call for broadband, which has also been the subject of certain treatments in this National Assembly, the notifiers are considered to be a mandatory deadline for the submission of all documents for the Ministry; when the water is flowing into its throat, they say that this is just an instruction period. When the notifiers want an answer from the Ministry, why certain decisions are not available or why their roles are incomplete or inappropriate, because the call clearly states the time frame within which the Ministry is required to respond, the Ministry shall be excused and shall state that this is only an instruction period. These games in recent calls are kind of a constant practice. This call also did not clearly define the criteria for the bank guarantee, how it is used and by what time period it is implemented in practice. It was clear, however, that this call was somehow in favour or in the decision-making capacity of the banks which, through this call, determined which projects could receive a green light. And it is interesting to find among the recipients of the company's funds, whose directors are sitting or even running the supervisory councils of individual banks. And interestingly enough, they are among the largest recipients of these funds. This is probably why the Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes of an investment character, followed also by the guidelines of the European Commission, was not respected, and the Manual for the production of cost-benefit analysis of investment projects issued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development was not respected, since the call did not require a pre-investment design that is not only formally necessary, but is also substantively necessary in deciding on the important funds allocated by the State for individual projects. Only the business plan was required and its content was contrary to that Regulation. It is undeniable that, if we respected that regulation, large enterprises would not have reached the so-called financial gap and would not have been among the recipients of the funds, as projects can only be financed according to European guidelines to the extent of the financial gap shown. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the so-called Pomur law and contracts, which are signed in this case or which are published on the website, where there are also large costs for individual Contracting Parties and individual partner operators of certain tasks that they would have undertaken in that region or which are already the domain of development agencies in that region. And if I compare these contracts, which are linked to Pomurje as an advisory and contract for the execution of individual public contracts for the preparation of various bases and applications for individual projects with a similar cost of coordination and preparation of projects in Soča, which was a sample example at the time and was also mentioned when the law of Pomur was adopted, I can conclude that the same tasks in Pomurje are allocated approximately EUR 1 million, which are duplicating, since development agencies also exist in this area. There are approximately €95 000 earmarked for the same tasks, without additional agencies and without additional contracts. I think that such approaches in this country are more to the point of deepening this public financial hole, and I think that we will not get all the answers through this debate today, but the issue that has been presented through the call for the development centres of the Slovenian economy, or what has occurred in this case, is obviously a virus that has been receiving all the calls recently.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u117	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Then it is Mrs Renata Brunskole, Miran Györek, Matevž Frangež, Franci Kek, Bojan Kontic, Ivan Grill, I think she is cancelling, Mrs Breda Pecan. Well, I'll keep telling you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I think that one of the most important decisions we have made during this period of economic and financial crisis was the decision to invest much more money than in previous budgets in development. This I think was really one of the best decisions and if we look at how much funding we have earmarked for this purpose, we can see that for this specific call for a development centre of the Slovenian economy, €185 million has been earmarked, and before that for centres of excellence €80 million, I think we can certainly include in this category a call for broadband, which is also crucial to enable appropriate technology and businesses to create those products and develop programmes that also need this high technology. So we are talking somewhere about the amount of €300 million that we have invested in development in these two years. I think that Parliament, too, is making expectations very, very high, so that, of course, this money will also produce results. However, there is really one problem in these procedures, both at centres of excellence and at the development centres of the Slovenian economy and at the call for broadband – that it is not possible to get rid of the feeling that this money has actually reached already selected institutions. This I do not think is good and shows that it is likely from all these programmes that this effect will not be what we all want in Slovenia – that this is a major step towards technological breakthrough and the progress of the Slovenian economy and, above all, achieving greater competitiveness in demanding markets. If we add to this the fact that, in fact, very few universities have been involved in these programmes – the same is true for the Slovenian Economic Development Centre – and when we find that a very large amount of funding has been allocated to some institutes, in general, these institutes have been located right here in Ljubljana, and when we find that we are also dealing largely with the problem of funding universities today, we can talk about the fact that, due to the slightly more prudent preparation of the programmes, even the calls may have reached an even greater profit, as part of the Slovenian science, which is mainly in Slovenian universities, has somehow been largely excluded from this process. That seems to me to be one of the great flaws. I think that this is also one of the untapped opportunities for this money from the European Development Funds to achieve the real effect that we are expecting. As regards how and in which region this money was intended, progress is, of course, compared to the centres of excellence in these economic development centres. Certainly, a number of these programmes have also been included in areas that, of course, have not come close to the centres of determination. Personally, I think that I can also very openly commend this call in the sense that at least two woodworking projects are involved in these programmes, and this is one of those important steps, because in all this period we are either consciously or accidentally, however we take it, but the wood processing industry in Slovenia has been drastically reversed, precisely because there has never been any serious hearing that this production, for which we have our own raw material, would have risen to a higher level. After this salary, I really like to admit that I am extremely pleased that part of the woodworking industry is also involved in this development programme. In my opinion, however, given that we have very much of our own mass and that this is unused and that much of this wood goes into processing abroad, it is still too small. Probably not because it would not be an interest either, for example, to the Ministry of the Economy, but also because it is easy for these companies to not be able to have enough equity to actually prepare the appropriate roles and obtain these funds. With this information alone, I think that we can even more illustrate the fact that we have really left this industry on the sidelines in Slovenia and that other, of course, stronger centres from abroad have already drawn this opportunity into our circle. With regard to the decision to include part of the funds in the Development Support Act of the Pomeranian Region for the period 2010-2015, I think that it was also one of those key reasons that part of the funds was, nevertheless, directed to one of the areas where the most developmental problems were. I myself wanted a part of these funds to be deliberately defined also for Pomurje, which has exactly the same or at some point worse development problems, mainly due to the lack of infrastructure as Pmurje has, but despite all the fact that we were working intensively at the time that this call was being prepared, there were, I hope, not enough political will to make certain measures or conditions more concrete in this call in order to have programmes from areas with a high level of unemployment, more points and thus, of course, more likely to obtain additional resources. In the following procedures and subsequent calls, which are unlikely to be so soon – because these resources, which have been allocated for the development of science, of course, have their deadline there in 2015, 2016 – so that we can talk about a five-year period when for the development of technologies, for all those companies and all those centres that have not reached these funds, there will be no new opportunity. This is one of the areas that we should talk about in the future and try to find solutions also for those areas that have not been included in these programmes right now. Above all, I think it is really extremely important in all these next procedures to exclude to the greatest extent all these criteria, which can lead to a great dissatisfaction with those who have failed to reach these funds as regions, or also with companies. I think that the Public Procurement Act, which we are also adopting at this meeting, will somehow not allow for sufficient quality audits of these procedures, even for reasons, because when we talk about science, it is a level that is difficult to overcome. And given that in this Public Procurement Act we are also talking about the fact that the Audit Commissions may provide for some additional measures of their own in the revisions themselves, despite the fact that, for example, someone who requested an audit indicated that certain procedures could be carried out indefinitely. And that is also the mechanism that bothers me that we will never actually complete any process of a revision. There's always another reason. And of course, years turn around and all then either forget about it or, of course, give up earlier on getting any results and trying to put their self into effect. These are some of the shortcomings we face in practice. I think we should really avoid dealing with some kind of agreement law, as Mr Klemenčič said in one of his statements, but that we are really trying to be as consistent as possible in how to carry out a process and how to allocate these funds. Finally, how to monitor the impact of such allocations also in practice. I think that if we take a step forward and even on the basis of today's debate, we have done a lot. I think that these warnings that we are listening to today, because it is not possible to take some appropriate conclusions, are, in my opinion, particularly good intentions for the development of Slovenia to be even more successful. Especially when we are talking about the resources that we are earmarking directly for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u119	Madam Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. A number of questions and also words have been said that require my comment. I am pleased that, in the final stage of the debate, the topic that is in fact the subject of this question has been highlighted. This is a question of changing the tendering conditions, the bank guarantee, and I will answer this question first. Of course, why a bank guarantee, why did we demand a bank guarantee in these calls? At the outset, I said that this call was intended to link the best, healthy companies into joint ventures, in order to buy, by sharing their knowledge or combining their expertise, competences, as well as financial resources, we make those developmental cores from which we can expect high-tech products, new businesses and new, high-quality jobs tomorrow. As one of the tendering conditions, the Bank guarantee was intended to obtain projects that are also real to the Ministry. You know, we have a lot of experience in allocating funds. Entrepreneurs and people have a lot of ideas, but in the back, not even the slightest basis to pull them out. What helps us if someone writes to me on paper, for 40 million euros I will make a big project, and for this he is not prepared to take any risks and at home he has one euro. Now we know he won't make it. Moreover, it is also true that in this country it is never so that it receives 100% of the funding, it is said that it must have the funds already provided for such projects in one way or another. And with a bank guarantee on this particular call, we also wanted to achieve that companies that had to set up a joint venture would also take on this bank guarantee a considerable risk and also a high risk, and would commit themselves to doing what they promised in this project, which they had submitted to the Ministry of the Economy and which was the basis for assessing that they would also carry out this project. Why did we do that? Yes, because what has been said so many times today is precisely what we want these funds to be used effectively. And what Mr Vizjak said and stabbed me very much – it was true that this was done at the time he was Minister – when he said that companies actually do not know what they would spend that money for, which they got here, I want to say something about – no company got the money in advance. [[…]] They have obtained decisions on the granting of funds, of course, if they fulfil all that were tendering conditions. The first tendering condition was that, on the basis of this Decision, they must establish a joint undertaking by the end of June at the latest. All those partners that were in the consortium must now set up a company and also direct their share of the funds, capital. In doing so, they are serious that they have not just signed up, and then they will give that money somewhere, just as it has been before; each one will take his piece and each one will take something into his own company. No, the joint venture, and the results are measured on the joint venture. And the money will come to the joint venture, not to the corners of individual companies. This is the second step, it is said, they must set up a company. The money will not be given until it is done, the part of which is that of what they have promised. Thus, there will have to be concrete results, at least some prototype of a product will have to be developed, I don't know. They'll have to tell us what they're doing. So these funds are just a promise that if they fulfill what they have promised, they will receive these funds. If they don't, we'll cash in the bank guarantee, and we'll make sure of that. In fact, we are introducing that funds will finally begin to be allocated and given to such entrepreneurs, to companies that will also be able to make effective use of the funds. So far, I'm sorry, there have been too many projects that have actually had no special effects or were very small. It's because the money, Mr. Vizjak, knows it very well, has shared it and has been used by companies, for whatever. We do not want to do this anymore, and that is why we have done so. So it's bank guarantees. That change in diction, and that's the other thing that actually led to this debate, is that. The fact is, for the first time, I have to say – the invitation was opened for six months. The invitation was open for six months, and now don't tell me that one in six months couldn't get a bank guarantee! Yeah, of course, if two of them went looking for her before the application was submitted, I'm sure the bank didn't give her to him. But just because we wanted companies to be able to prepare well for this invitation to tender, we gave a very long time to prepare, 6 months. However, the fact is that one company began searching for bank guarantees two days before the tender deadline and clearly did not receive them. But for this reason, we do not have to blame ourselves and the Ministry of the Economy to try to restrict businesses so that they do not reach these funds. Amendment of the dictatorship; in the original dictatorship, the Bank guarantee was required from the very beginning in the first text of the tender. [[…]] The dictatorship was as follows: The guarantee must be in force by 31. 12. 2015 or 30 days after the approval of the final project report. Here, of course, when companies started looking for these guarantees, the question began to be asked: yes, 30. 12. 2015, yes, but when can it be over since it was written together 30 days after the approval of the final project report? Is it possible to do this once, I don't know, in 2020 or when? And since we have seen that this doctrine is vaguely written and that it can cause problems, we have reversed the dictatorship. We only changed the dictatorship and said that the guarantee was valid 30 days after the approval of the final project report, or not later than 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With this, we have made it clear that all projects must be completed by 31 at the latest. 12. 2015, which is already written elsewhere, but we also here have to know that guarantees for longer than 31. 12. 2015 is not necessary or we have said if the project is to be completed sooner than 31. 12. 2015, we have made it clear that the guarantee can also apply for a shorter period of time, 30 days after the completion of the project, which could be due to me 2014. So it was just another dictatorship, the content is the same, the demand is the same. And that was all about these bank guarantees. It was clear at the beginning of the tender that a bank guarantee had to be provided. Then, of course, during the evaluation phase or when we received applications, we took into account all the bank guarantees that came. Of course, those who did not submit were expelled because it was a condition. Those who were brought in too late were also expelled. Such are the rules for the award of tenders. It is necessary to set a border somewhere, set a day, and from then on it is over. I'm sorry that some project didn't work out, too, but that's the way it is. These are the rules that the state has laid down, not now, a long time ago, and we just have to stick to them. These are the rules we have to stick to. As far as guarantees are concerned, look, in this case there is nothing wrong with me, and I must say that I am wrong, and today obviously in this House the atmosphere prevails, that we should just charge everything in advance that we are guilty and then we must prove that we are not guilty, as was the case with the previous amendment of the Company Law. Today, however, I have also heard a number of accusations about clientelism, accusations that we have violated European regulations and accusations that this call is not good, that it is not made according to the rules, which I am absolutely protesting against. Don't press charges! Mr Trumpus said nicely, "if anyone has any doubt that anything was wrong, that I or any of my fellow workers have done something wrong, to report to the competent authority, I have no objection". And if you think that the invitation to tender has been made, please inform the competent authorities, make complaints, the court and those responsible will decide. But please don't keep judging. Once again, these are pure tendering matters. But the fact is, there are quite a few indications here, as far as politics is concerned. Once again, I would like to say that this is just one of many calls aimed at achieving one specific objective. It aims at technological development and promoting innovation. With this call, we want to place in Slovenia development centres, the development cores of the Slovenian economy in areas where we already have knowledge, where we have competences and where we also have companies already operating, companies that with little additional financial assistance from the country can make a faster and better technological breakthrough. The condition is that they work together, we don't give one company, but the condition is that companies with similar knowledge begin to connect to each other to seek synergies. That's how it's done all over the world. This is why it is also a compulsion to set up a joint venture; those unable to connect could not come to this call. And the only ambition of this call is to get to these development centres. Seventeen of them were successful on this call. I am pleased that in all the technological areas that we have identified, companies have managed to connect. These are, in my opinion, the most pro-pulsive companies in individual industries that will make one breakthrough together. As I said before, then, in the second phase, we made sure that each region has at least one of these projects. And he absolutely doesn't think we're funding here just, I don't know, one big, great, I don't know what kind of company. I don't know, Miska d. o. o., Luznar d. o. o., Var d. o. o., these are companies that are united in consortia. Has anyone heard of them? I've never done it before. This is certainly not one company, but I do not know how favoured it is right now and everyone in Slovenia would know them. That's just not true. However, among them there are also the largest and most pro-pulsive companies in individual clusters, and thank God they are among them, thank God that in ICT – the development of information communication technology – those who have already done something in this area were willing to join this development centre. And that they are willing to take other, small ones who have ideas, knowledge, competences, to connect them together, of course, with the ambition that everyone will be better tomorrow. So I also have to throw away these revelations of Mr. Guilty, and I must say that I am disappointed. It is in Primorsko that one of these attempts – IN PRIME – is already working and I expected Mr Krivec to understand our ambitions, of course this call or their project is already being financed. That's the stuff now. And this: it is clear that this call cannot satisfy everything that we cannot cover all the interests, all the objectives. This is not about regional objectives, and again, I stress, this is not about promoting small and medium-sized enterprises. For small and medium-sized enterprises, we have a whole set of other instruments that encourage the creation itself of development, ideas, and then we are accompanied by small businesses in those most vulnerable stages, the first stages of development, and then forward, and we have today developed a whole range of instruments that are adapted to small ones. From having technology parks, incubators, where we give them shelter at the final stage, where we give them the opportunity to even start, then we have a special invitation to give them initial capital, to develop their idea, and what some businesses are developing in this way. That after they come from that start-up phase, that we now have various guarantees for leased bank loans, we will develop some other instruments. However, it is true that we have given up non-refundable funds in the future at the expense of reimbursements, that is, Mr Vizjak asked and says that such a policy, when there are no more subsidies, is not the right thing to disagree with it.This is a second opinion; this country and this government has decided that we will be those valuable resources that we have for development and that it shows that there will be even less of them in the years to come, that we will devote these valuable resources to development in the form of repayable funds. So we will no longer be giving subsidies, but we will be giving other types of incentives: credits, guarantees for bank loans, venture capital, real forms of aid that will come back in a few years, come back into the budget and allow this money to be used to finance new businesses again. And that's the real development, because you give the grant once and then the money's gone. And the fact is, in the next financial perspective in the European Union, we certainly cannot expect as much development resources as we have expected so far and that these rare development resources will need to be handled more wisely in the coming period and even now, more wisely than we have done so far in this perspective from 2007 to 2013. I agree, however, that incentives are only one part of the promotion of the economy, that measures that are not even within the competence of the Ministry of the Economy are crucial to enhancing the competitiveness of the economy; they are normal measures in the field of tax policy; they are about removing administrative barriers and improving the flexibility of the labour market, and we know that this government is also working to implement measures in this area, and these are also key measures. Incentives only complement these horizontal measures of competition promotion policy. I think I've explained everything more or less. Once again, as far as guarantees are concerned, I hope that the answer was clear – it was not about modifying or modifying the tender terms incorrectly or creating new tender conditions at the time of the invitation to tender itself. The best, most quality projects were selected. Mr. Bogovich said, "We got one project from Zasavje.", yes, even one was reported. As far as Pomurje is concerned, it is true that EUR 30 million has been reserved for Pomurje, but good co-financing projects were for 26 million. We couldn't give that $4 million now to someone we know has a bad project. Why? We're going to cash these four million and we're going to give it to some other measure, maybe this time for small and medium-sized enterprises in Pomure. Nobody took that money. But we didn't say, "because we're going to spend 30 million on this money, but we're going to support just a few projects that aren't good in quality." That's not what we're doing. The fact is that it is actually a matter of integration not only within the regions; especially in those projects where it is a matter of integration on the technological side, it is said from the same technological field, there are connected companies from all over Slovenia. And if we look at it this way, we have even Slovenia covered, all the companies that are willing to join the consortium today, in clusters, if you want to, in common partnerships, all of them today in one way or another are involved in at least one development centre, and I think it's a good start, it's a sad start to finally come one step further in this Slovenia and to start thinking the way our companies already think in developing Europe, that we need to work together, that we need to connect if you want to stay on the global market today, everyone in their own backyard can no longer survive. These are facts that are difficult for us, even for cultural reasons, and therefore forcing countries to force countries to do so through calls for them to do so. And connecting is a trend and it's what brings us forward. If there's anything else I'll forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you. The speaker has the floor, Mr. Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. First. I did not accuse any of them with the harsh words they have now fallen, so I do not agree to a reading with an argument of indignation. So that we don't have the right to draw attention to weaknesses, awkwardness, irregularities, whatever we label them, I don't think they just can't handle serious criticism. Of course, what is the underlying problem, Madam Minister? The public will be impressed by the fact that those who have problems are not to be guaranteed, bank or whatever, that funds will be spent on purpose. Please don't teach us and not inspire us, at least not me, more, I'm in favour of, more than 100%, and it's not possible to ensure that the funds are useful, purposeful and legally used. With all due respect, you did not answer the fundamental question in the answer, why, even if it was 6 months, you have prepared it for as long as I know, you have not "trotlziher" – excuse me – clearly stated what guarantee is needed. As set out in Article 1087 of the ZOR. This would be written, and most of the comments and problems would fall away. Not only did you not write this in the invitation to tender, very much – I would not like to offend, but I will find it difficult to collect the word, but I will – you wrapped it up three weeks before the deadline. To the bank guarantee, nothing should now be written or attributed to the press. Why was such a need for secrecy, why not directly? Now for those who follow and will get lost in these discussions on the bank guarantee – what is the problem? Usually, as I said in the introduction, there are bank guarantees when you get the funds. No, you've requested a bank guarantee to be paid by the bankers to the banks, the costs and the approval, and everything else, for those projects, if you don't know if they'll get them. It is normal that this has stimulated or caused confusion between applicants, as well as between banks. I will not repeat here the assessment of an eminent Slovenian banker who said about what he thought and what he said about it because it would be uncultured, but it would be very useful to say it, and I will abstain as a whole. Thus, the bank guarantee in the tender would be clearly defined so that everyone would understand it and, of course, there is no answer why you did not respect the regulation. Don't tell me that I'm reading to you or to your coworkers or I don't know who all the crime is or I don't know what it's all been told here today. No, the fact is, the regulation, which is prescribed and does not know the exceptions, has not been respected. It's less important, it's a fact. There are only two or three problems here that have led to this discontent or question. The issue of guarantee, which was not clearly, understandablely defined in the invitation to tender, non-compliance with a regulation which does not know the exceptions, and the question of why the invitation to tender was included – it is a partial logic and absolutely not – the area of Pomurje. Doesn't that mean they have to get state funds for Pomurje or any incompetent, incompetent, and I don't know, because where's your problem? [[…]] The problem is that because of the so-called sieves or through which you have sown and at first sight look O.K., unfortunately they are not, you have not come to the selection of the best projects because you do not know which are the best, because those you have rejected for formal reasons, even those that would be questionable, you have not assessed normally. I'm not sure you've chosen 17 according to any proper criteria of the most appropriate, and you don't take it as innuendo, not as an insult, not as a breakdown of authority. Unfortunately, that's a fact. Now for bank guarantees and banks. If a project or consortia itself is approved from one area, where the company the director of which is the President of the Supervisory Board, and in the same bank, competing projects receive a response negative in one month and two days, no matter when requested or requested, then this is a little bad. And that's not an insinuation like someone was trying to say here, even though I understand him trying to defend himself at all costs. It is just a custom in this loving country that we are as critical as we are right now or not. The question is whether the area would have fallen out in this way in this competition if it had been defended in this way. I am not saying that it is necessary to attack, but not to draw attention to the apparent shortcomings, but that it is not in the function of public interest, I call public interest – as much development as possible and as much development as possible. And there's one more thing. As soon as some of us in the discussion drew attention to the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises, then there is an immediate defence, "this is not meant for them". Yes, for God's sake, forgive me, read the tendering terms because they had to be included in the consortium. And as in every consortium there's at least one small one, you can't say it's not meant for small ones. There must be some elementary logic in these explanations. To conclude, because I do not believe in the productivity of such a discussion anymore, even though I think the debate was well-intentioned, but was never, at least on my part, malicious. I think that there should be more such discussions and that these procedural shackles in the Rules of Procedure, which do not allow for discussion, are unacceptable to the National Assembly. The answer based on why the requirement for a type of guarantee was not clearly defined, why the regulation that does not know the exceptions was not respected, and whether it is very prudent to include an invitation to tender for Pomurje in this general invitation to tender, is no longer an answer and, of course, no more than to find out at any given time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u123	The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matjaz Han. Willie Rezman. Get ready for Vito Rožej or Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate is ongoing as to whether the invitation to tender, for the first time, was well targeted, whether the conditions were appropriate or whether the conditions were complied with and whether, in the end, those chosen were correct. 'Cause it sounds like we don't know if they're the right ones or not, and maybe the best projects are hidden somewhere, and we don't even know about them. This is both theoretically and practically possible. However, it would probably be even worse if even the best, theoretically best project came first over all the criteria, beyond all the rules. If someone has failed to submit applications in time and has fulfilled all the other criteria, even if he has had a good project, there can be no blame on anyone else. However, I am of the opinion, in particular as regards the objectives of this call, that at least at this first stage they have been achieved. The objectives were linked. If we now recall the number of 17 new development centres in which 182 – I quickly counted some number wrong – the members of the consortium connected, which are probably all of them, or the vast majority acted very dispersed, with very fragmented powers, with very fragmented information, resources, technologies and so on, then I think that this basic objective has been achieved. And if it is not yet practically achieved, it is achieved in this sense that open doors are for the realization of this integration of economic operators and this is one of the goals and we have been betting in our parliamentary group on this very much, so that we connect these dispersed economic operators into something that will be knowledge, organisation, staff and so on, and that, let's say, what a new condition has given something new, new products, new products, not just new companies, not just new companies, I will also say new technologies and so on, and when we look at the results of the calls, it seems that we are also approaching. I'd like to point out, I picked a few numbers here on my own. For new materials, about 50 million are earmarked, and for these new materials various companies have merged in four different regions. So it was in four different regions. Not everything in Ljubljana, because some would like to be very obvious, but even if it were the best project from Ljubljana, nothing bad, thank God, it would be the best project from Ljubljana. Another such industry, for example, is wood processing, and let me remind you that for some time now, at various symposiums, consultations, round tables and so on, we continue to listen to how we have ignored this and how we do nothing to make this woodworking that could be some great potential for us, even because of the natural advantages that we have, at least at the level that we once practiced. This wood processing received EUR 25 million. Once this is implemented when this is processed, this will – although I do not think that round tables and dedications are necessary – significantly greater contribution to the development of wood processing and forestry and everything else, which is linked to this, than merely a declarant statement to support the individual sector. And this wood processing also reported 3 projects in three different regions. So I also take no note of how nothing is done in order to inter-regionally connect, in order to reduce the differences between regions, because it is not possible for equality between regions to be octroated. However, it is possible to find development potentials in regions where they are, and to encourage and assist them with different instruments to a higher degree of development. So I am sure that this debate has shown, with the exception of some questions that have been more detailed and which have not yet been answered, that this debate has shown the relevance of the objectives, the appropriateness of the procedures and that we can only wish that by 2015 until 31. 12. All that is now supported by financial resources has also been realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Marinič. Please. Get ready for Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. A warm welcome to all! — Matthew 24: 45 - 47. If I return to the very content of the debate; from the very beginning, when the fellow Member asked the question of the Member and was not satisfied with the Minister's reply, he has, of course, proposed a procedural decision, which was also miraculously adopted, which confirms the fact that everything was not as correct as it should have been. As far as the invitation to tender is concerned. Of course, the purpose was good. The question is whether the final objective will also be achieved. Some intermediate objectives are likely to be achieved, but the final objective of the funds is to achieve the question of whether it will be achieved in this way. I am particularly concerned that the proposaler, a fellow Member today, still has no answers to the contents of his question in this debate. And if anything, then believe me, I didn't want to comment on it, but it seemed to me in the Minister's previous explanation inappropriate or unnecessary that something, at least twice, tripped over how Minister Vizjak shared these funds. But let me tell you that I do not believe that Minister Vizjak has received any such questions, which would then also be confirmed for a broader debate. Therefore, questions and answers should be sought from you, at the Ministry, without thinking or pointing to the Minister with a finger, but from those of your respected colleagues and colleagues who are preparing this for you at the Ministry, that the institution of the question is not so simple and negligible as to require an in-depth approach and preparation of the answer to the question. There, I think, is a foundation that is not well aware of, not only your ministry, but also the other ministers and ministers. Members and Members of Parliament, however, are also monitoring some of the content directly on the ground. It is true that 42 applications have already arrived at the specific invitation to tender, which is encouraging. That 17 projects have been co-financed also shows some encouragement. But what grieves me personally and what you, the distinguished minister, even in your last performance, said that Pomurje was successful with 26 million and not 30, as far as you originally planned, you know, but there is already a handful of doubt, which, simply put, I cannot believe. [[…]] If the current government has gone against this solution with all possible institutions and institutions, as well as with the staff, has put up even the necessary infrastructure directly in the Murska Sobota to ensure that, despite the best staff you have chosen, you can today answer that unfortunately there were not enough good projects to draw on 30 million, which is sad. And here you have to ask yourself, are they really not the right personnel, whether these personnel and your service, part of your service or government service is precisely for this purpose directly on the ground. [[…]] And would it not be expected that, even now, with such calls, which is the basic and fundamental task of those who are placed there to take the initiative to do so, so that all these 30 million will still be exhausted? I can't understand and I will never understand that despite the fact that there were so much paper and so many words intended to approach it, it came together, it all started to run, and then you come to us to explain that unfortunately the projects weren't so good that they could pump all the projected funds of 30 million, as planned, so to speak, only 26 million. To conclude, I would really like to know how much longer it is to get the very basic answers to the content of the question. Three of them have been exposed, I do not want to repeat them, but it seems to me that it is necessary to say clearly and unequivocally why there were no projects in Pomurje that would ensure 100% of the use of the planned funds. Why are we saying today that there was no project in Pomour with such content as to ensure that the full amount is pumped? Of course, I cannot be comforted by the fact that if they have not been successful now, they will be successful in some other projects or calls when there will be small businesses, and if I see that small companies have also been involved here, with the assistance of some large companies. I hope that small companies will also get their share of the funds. And what I think is very important to me when we talk about bank guarantees, because it's no wonder we always stop. Well, what about those bank guarantees that Dars doesn't want to cash in? And here are the fundamental questions that Members and Members are asking in terms of how we get the content of some questions, but we do not get clear answers from the competent ministries to our questions, and we are still in the context of the content where these questions are not explained and leave doubts, both to ourselves and perhaps to the general public.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word has Mirko Brulc, to prepare Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u128	Good-bye. When it comes to calls, there is always someone who has not been selected, dissatisfied, and remains in doubt and so forth, but as much simplification as has been said here today, from the fact that all the funds have to be distributed, whether the relevant programmes have been declared or not, of course this cannot be tolerated. The Minister's answers were very precise and very clear here today and we have received answers to a lot of questions, and I don't know why we would drag and walk here literally, because it's clearly a development centre. Development centers, they're not a mess workshop or anything, but they're centers that are clearly listed here. And I am glad that – I speak for my environment – Iskra Autoelectrica has managed to obtain important companies in the consortium, regardless of municipal or provincial boundaries that are not there or anything. Even from Maribor there are companies in this consortium, which is good. And the same place where there are 17 and also 19 companies in the consortium. So, this has been invested in a lot of energy, it's about integration, it's about kinship. It is so that we want to give these funds to someone who will greatly contribute to the added value of these funds, that I make it very simple not to repeat what we are saying now for three hours. Look, we want to have such an economic policy that we don't crush, we also help those who don't have ideas that aren't ambitious who have no skills. Those should be helped in a different way. Will we help those highly developed, ambitious ones who will pull the wagon out of this recession to make it possible for the worker to have more than that minimum wage and what else? And this call supports such, supports, once again, development centres, not individual small businesses and so on. Refunds and grants were discussed and so on. I also agree that it is preferable to make reimbursements, so that this money will then be turned around in the coming years, in order to get as much out of this as possible. I must say that I agree that monitoring the effects is essential, that an inventory should be made at the time, and that it may also come to Parliament, so that everything that is done cannot be simmered and criticized in any way. And don't be offended if the minister says that Mr Vizjak also shared funds during his ministry, I suppose. What he now has on his back, Dars, was not born yesterday, but was born for many years. And we're not going to the inventory now, but we want to change things and do better than they were or fix them. I agree with the Minister's explanations, and I do not think I know if it was necessary to spend so much time proving to each other how and what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has Franz Pukšič, to prepare only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much and very much! Madam Minister, at the time of the distribution of these funds for the 17 development centres of the Slovenian economy, you also stated, among other things: "I see a concrete opportunity in the development resources available to the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, and it identifies them as regional incentives. Almost 93 million euros are available, which regions can also spend on co-financing development projects. I hope this opportunity is used. We also have a very intense conversation with the SID Bank.", added the Minister. That's what it says here literally. I'd like you to explain to me what 93 million euros you've been talking about. Did you say this about the 93 million regional development that is still available for distribution, as we have already distributed, that is, among the congregations? Then you're wrong, then this money is not meant for these economic operators and I don't know what right you're sharing. If this government or the left-hand part knew what the right-wing government was doing, then it would have been long ago, as promised, here in this house, in Parliament, that so-called sixth call or call, whatever. He's not here. And, of course, because this is not the case, the results of the use of European funds are also devastating. But only on this item, i.e. on this item, when this sixth call is made, not only have the instruments been confirmed, but here also claims for reimbursement have been submitted and, of course, the most certified claims for reimbursement from the European Commission from this title. Why? Yes, because in one year the minister called for half — this is Dr. Žagar’s minister — of 600, 300 million euros. So, four calls happened. And, of course, it was necessary to wait here for this government because, as some coalition Members have already said today, the Government does not know what it is doing, but that it warmly recommends to the Government that it do so and that it do so, but, given what we find, not only we, but also among the people, so it is also such support for this government that it deals with itself and with its intrigues and disputes, and that is why in this area there are situations such as they are. Around this call and the election of these seventeen and, of course, the conditions that were, as colleague Trofenik had previously said and talked about someone who is the President of the Supervisory Council. Who was he talking about? He was talking about Daniel Topplek. So he could give himself a guarantee as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and he refused a first-class bank guarantee to others. He talked about it and, of course, there are few who are directly and concretely hoping to say it. I have already mentioned it in this House today, but I mentioned it because it is still the President of the Supervisory Board of the Maribor Credit Bank, although it has been publicly proved here that he worked as a silent associate of a silent company etc., etc., which is not in accordance with legislation. You cannot and will not convince the Slovenian public because it is not why you are silent, but leave it in place, of course. [[…]] And then, when you speak, Madam Minister in explanation, whether you come through or somehow come through, why in the weakest regions about 10% per capita, thus 90% more in the richest ones for these development incentives. Of course, you say, therefore, we have other instruments to reduce this regionality or the backlog of other regions, both at work and in jobs, development, etc. That is not true, so these differences are increasing all the time. In the previous government, since we were actually convinced that we would bring regionalisation through, it has been shown with all the figures, graphs, etc. that it takes, I don't know, seventeen years for the least developed regions to reach this level if, of course, they didn't develop here as they are now, if everything were to develop at the same level. With all these ways that are being driven in this government, it is not going in the direction of regionalisation, it is not going in the direction of decentralisation, it is going in the opposite direction. If we had this, of course we would also have a source of tax power in certain areas, but we do not. Therefore, for the entire area, the country makes a level playing field. And it is clear that someone will not go into an area where, of course, there is no tax incentive or anything else to invest. And, of course, the development centres of the Slovenian economy – Minister, if you make a call a hundred times more, you will put ten times more into the most developed regions, because this is the way you will not achieve the development centres of the Slovenian economy in the other regions. They will not, as is today the 100 per cent view of 90 or 95 per cent of citizens and citizens, that with local self-government, things have changed significantly in the area that the law gives them. And thank God we have that. If we had regions, then I am sure that the development centres of the Slovenian economy would also be better and would be more dispersed throughout the country. And for God's sake, we have such a small home country, we should be more concerned about coherent regional development. Look, Minister, if I look at the data from the Ministry of Finance from 28. 2. 2011, that means something back, you can see or have data here that could; the right to spend money this year, from 2007 to 2011, is three billion and one hundred fifty million. From Brussels to 28. 2. We pumped something over 550 million, that means six times less than we should, six times less! And you know, Minister, when you say, "those who think we're doing something wrong, and that was wrong and so on, you have the opportunity, so the instruments of reporting to the courts, and the applications I don't know where they are, and we'll answer." With what? What are you going to answer with? The Prime Minister said a year and a half ago, or just in the beginning, that he would change and, of course, give the main emphasis to drawing on European funds and, of course, if not, he will answer. Yeah, what's he gonna answer with? By leaving this country and going to Brussels for a better paid job? Yes, indeed, responsibility in the right place. And Members, and not only the opposition, because, unfortunately, you do not support the coalition and give us the opportunity to discuss the issue, the issues that we are addressing to you, but, of course, in the opposition, we support the demands of the coalition Members when they want a substantive debate, so of course this will happen. And it was these discussions, Minister, that they were meant not to hide in the back, but it wasn't, and it wasn't, and I don't know what it was. Remember how many discussions there have been in this House and how many times we have warned that such an invitation as was made by the Minister of Education for Staff is not fair, that it is not principled, that it is not in accordance with the law. No, everything was fine, everything! Like Minister Kresalov here, the entire interpretation survived, everything is in the best order to rent spaces for the NPU. Yes, I will say, to the last Slovenian farmer, it is clear that if he hires a loan or lease for the purchase of a tractor, you, the renting minister, will pay him back the lease for the tractor, and he will earn it for the lawnmower and in 10 years he will be his, that you did not manage well. What will this secretary answer with? Good, because the LDS will no longer be in the next parliamentary elections in Parliament. But that's not enough responsibility. Personal responsibility should also be set up differently. Of course, these parliamentary questions are intended precisely to minimise the anomalies that appear as much as possible. On the next occasion, when you speak, I would ask you about the right of who gave it to you, whether you have made a deal with the Government, or whether it really means that there will be no invitation to tender, i.e. the sixth public call that the Slovenian municipalities have lost that money, that you are just travelling economic operators to these funds. In short, is there anything else going on? You also have some confidential letters between you, as the Secretary of State wrote or not, former Minister Gjerkesh to Minister Gaspari, and then stumbled upon what the Secretary of State wrote in Brussels, which was not her job. That's what you have to tell us. We have this right. Members, we have to ask you and ask you the answers to these questions, and that is exact, correct and correct. Not hiding behind some general phrases, and I don't know what it is – but they didn't have the conditions You know, a lot or a lot of people could participate in these funds if they made a corrective call. [[…]] It would be fair that before the call is made, it is an invitation to people to prepare and, of course, then choose those who will also do the most with these funds in these development centres of Slovenia. I am really interested in the assurance that all that is written will be checked for the first time, and for the second time, of course, that will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, to prepare Sara Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Some discussions by opposition Members today remind me of the spot of Urska Čepin. I am pleased with the information provided to the National Assembly by the Minister for the Magnificent Economy. Darja Radic. We know from such good things and ingredients to do here in the National Assembly some inedible brooch. I think it was a very successful project. Indeed, the development centres of the Slovenian economy provide an instrument for supporting growth and development, which also complements other instruments available to the Government, as well as the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, for example in the field of new products and competences. Compared to, say, centres of excellence play a key role in these projects. In addition, we have other instruments. On Friday, for example, an invitation to tender entered into force for grants to entrepreneurs, craftsmen under the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which is available to municipalities that have become so-called border areas problems. And this is also one of the instruments made possible by this government for the development of the economy of our country and also of border areas of concern. On the basis of this call, 17 projects will be co-financed and the total value of these projects will be more than €400 million. Cooperation and co-financing are also not negligible, €170 million, and it is right that these funds are also earmarked for developed areas. It is from my environment, where my constituency, in Idrija and Cerkljanski, companies have been very successful in competing with these calls, but it is also that managers have been more involved in the development of their companies than in Taiwan's acquisitions. Therefore, our administrative unit, which covers the municipality of Idria and Cerkno, has the lowest unemployment rate in the country, barely 6.6% of unemployment. Of course, we can also improve this with the help of such projects that are currently under way. Otherwise, I did not support this debate on the question put by my colleague Trofenik. After all, we will not adopt any specific conclusions, but it is right to take this opportunity and say that this government has done a great deal for the development of the economy and one of such projects is what we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Sarah Wheeler has the word. [[She's not here.]] The word is Bell Lach. Would you like a word, Bell Lah? [[He doesn't want to.]] Joseph Jerovšek. [[He's not here.]] Aloys Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Darja Lavtijar Bebler. [[She's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Joz Tanko. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Bogdan Barovich, Franz Bogovich, Aloise Posedel, Mag. Andrej Vizjak Anton Kampush wants a word. Please, Anton Kampush has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u134	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. I was looking forward to getting it. So today it is clear that this time it is a real restructuring of the Slovenian economy. It's about new companies, new consortia. Inside these consortiums are a leading company and a relatively large number of partners or subcontractors who have worked together or will work together in future projects. This is a quality and it is a development-oriented company that creates a new consortium with new products. That's new. It is companies that know what they are doing, who have a development vision and within a vision set development goals, of course also predetermined because they must have them. Through this, Slovenia gets new products that go to European and global markets. These are new jobs, usually with higher added value. So, jobs for those who are currently the most unemployed, with higher education. Every consortium, every company provides 50% of its resources, which is why it's ridiculous to tell where the minister has the guarantee. So any such consortium must be of quality, must be capable, must have its own financial resources and bank guarantee. This has now come so far that I have not yet noticed that the contribution of each individual, i.e. a leading firm within the consortium and a sub-co-operator, is in terms of ensuring 50% of the redemption value. There's got to be so much money on the table if we're gonna get to that. And of course, it is no wonder that then it is important that the best bank guarantee is also required. This is news to us. I will not talk about former Minister Visiak, who also shared the funds, but the question of course was seized. Of course, the question was taken. So this invitation is such that he has chosen only those companies that have any hope of having a development vision throughout Slovenia, and they hope to do so. And anyone who has applied who is within this consortium and will soon, if he has not already signed the contract, have to be sure of himself, serious and, of course, will lose his funds. This time it is really only for those respected colleagues and colleagues, for those firms and those sub-co-operators and those leading companies that are within themselves a hundred percent. What a guarantee, I've already told you. Asking today is what the guarantee and the minister is, will you say, do you have any guarantee? [[…]] What a guarantee, every firm must guarantee its own guarantee. And I'm surprised again, so today everything is going wrong. Calls made by a local type have nothing to do with this, the law of Pomur has nothing to do with this. We have special invitations for small and medium-sized enterprises. The minister talked about it. This time it is about quality companies that have their ambitions, and within what you can read in this material that is here on the table, there are 17 new companies, 17 new consortia that connect over 200 of their sub-cooperators or smaller firms that have to cooperate through the product system itself. Thus, everyone has a job to do, and everyone has in principle guaranteed products that will go this way, restructuring the economy. As far as the restructuring economy is concerned. So now this is some cycle that gives us some guarantee that in the future it will be better that we do not need just those, so that they work beyond manual skills. That's what our economy needs. I would just like these calls to continue next year, and in the coming year, and in the coming year, and to try to take a step forward in Slovenia in this sense of breakthrough, to go in terms of technology, modernisation of production, new products forward, just that is our goal. In the economy this is our Slovenian goal and Slovenian breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Does the Ministry of the Economy want a word? Mag. Darja Radic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you. Only for a moment would you answer Mr. Puksic. Those 93 million are the funds envisaged for co-financing regional development. However, I said this on one occasion when the mayors said that they needed more resources for economic projects in their areas, and I said in this context that the sixth call was open and that there was no obstacle, that if they felt that there was any other means to be allocated to the economy, they should also make these funds available for economic resources. That's all. This is an option and, of course, the municipalities will decide for themselves, or the regional councils, what these 93 million will be for, which is also available. That's what I think is basically a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I can't see William Trofenik's proposal in the hall, so I probably can't give him a word or ask him if he's going to discuss it. All the advertised debaters who wanted to get the word 'Cause the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else would like to discuss it? I'll make an application. I'm opening the application. As you know, I never ask for such an application. Each of the discussers will receive 5 minutes. The word is Franz Pukšič, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much, President. I won't need five minutes. That means, Minister, that this was just a statement, so you don't have a government decision or anything else to transfer these funds to your ministry. Of course, it is not because the other invitations to tender have probably drawn behind them in a number of local communities the continuation of investment mainly in water purification. According to the European Directive by 2017, we know what we should do, how we need to be regulated. Of course, a lot of municipalities are waiting for this, so this sixth call to be able to be the whole project that it has set itself up and which is the only one in this country that is today, when we talk about 2011, knows exactly where and how it will be used and how the largest amount of money will be used. [[…]] It is from these items that it is certified from the European Union. And of course, if that were to happen, they would do enormous damage because they would not execute the municipality.I don't know, in one project, for example, they built a sewer, and within two years it should also be connected to a cleaning plant, which, of course, they also count on by co-financing regional development potentials. [[…]] And of course, if it wasn't for that, then that investment couldn't have been made. However, these investments are at the level of 2 million, including in municipalities where they have adequate spending in the underdeveloped areas, and then, of course, you know well how much and what is actually left for infrastructure. I hope that this call will come as soon as possible and, of course, if some municipalities need the development centres of the Slovenian economy to encourage the Slovenian economy, however, of course they should have a source. [[…]] However, given what I said earlier, that the use of European funds is so miserable, so catastrophic, it would be really good for the operational programmes to give local communities the opportunity to participate, of course, and I am afraid that some billions, billions and half of Euros will remain in Brussels because of these conflicts within the Government and which, of course, unfortunately, many times do not work for the benefit of both citizens and citizens, as well as of course not to make use of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. The Ministry's aim was to connect diversified entities and thus enable greater competitiveness, faster technological breakthroughs The projects identified are already in place, and I therefore support this project implemented by the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u142	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railway in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 6. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Wine in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Franc Jurša – on its own behalf. Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain the voice? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. In his own name, Franz Jursha. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of the bill because the proposal has been drawn up by vine growers who are united in vineyard societies and represent 90% of all vineyard growers from the area of the current area of Ljutomer-Ormož. Because the proposal brings the development of wine-growing and wine-growing in our area and is strongly linked to the development of tourism and the area as a whole. Because we are returning the environment to our Goricas, which he also clearly deserves, because it has 5% of the best white wine beds in the world. Because there were no positive effects planned under the law in 2006. Since the development of smaller vineyards in the wine-growing area has progressed successfully, and in the common area of Styria Slovenia has stagnated or deteriorated, I will, of course, support this proposal, which I have also put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Andrej Magajna. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u145	In his presentation of his views, colleague Vila Rezman presented all our dilemmas, concerns about or against the vineyard environment proposed. I've been thinking a lot about it myself. While weighing for or against, I have decided to support this proposal. With all the criteria that exist and which are more or less taken into account, the first point of view must be made in principle. The criteria for determining the congregations were such that we made exceptions, but we should not, in fact, make such exceptions there. Even with these criteria relating to the vineyard environment, they should be more elastic, flexible and should not be neglected by the marketing, commercial accent of this designation — Jerusalem. This brand has its market value and, of course, these aspects must also be considered and solutions sought in this respect. Not only do we produce quality wines, but how will we sell them and promote them accordingly. The introduction of this brand would be a contribution to the marketing and promotion of wines, which have a tradition and name that is also known beyond the border, which is why the name is added to Jerusalem Slovenia, because that name is protected and we also protect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. So, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. The vote is seven. Against 66. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 66.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal of the Company Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposed Act on Complements of the Company Act is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 72. Against one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services." We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on public financial liability. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on public financial liability is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 41. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We are moving on to chapter two and moving on to the decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to chapter two. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u147	Your Honor! What is in the interest of Slovenia? This is the answer to a question you need to ask yourself before voting on this amendment. Because, as the resolution is now written down, its mechanism is as follows: doctoral studies will be exclusively available to universities, the number of universities, as envisaged by the resolution, is limited to three – you can just type in names – and one consortium of different institutes is allowed to do so. You can put the name of the Institute of Joseph Stefan in there as well as someone else. It is said that you can see exactly what interests are involved. It is in the interest of Slovenia to establish as much competition as possible. Let the higher education institutions, therefore, let all who participate in this process compete with each other, allow them to conduct doctoral studies, as they know outside of universities; in the Anglo-Saxon area of various "schools", in the Francophone area, for example, in France, the École nationale, and as is already the case in Slovenia. What is proposed in the text of the resolution in its basic form is actually a step back for Slovenia, because doctoral studies are already being conducted outside universities, and this is a success. No one has ever objected to this or given any other argument. What's what's supposed to apply to everyone? The same criteria for everyone. And in doing so, as much freedom as possible, competition, because it is long-term in the Slovenian national interest. Therefore, we propose the amendment that is before you, so that the same criteria apply for all, but so, of course, that other institutions, without any other restrictions, will be able to carry out doctoral studies in addition to universities, the only restrictions are the same criteria, i.e. quality, quality as the only criterion in science to be valid for a long time. However, competition, history teaches, is what provides a rise in the race, an increase in quality in the long run, and this applies to any area of social life. For this reason, the adoption of this amendment is in the Slovenian national interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[For the vote 32]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the seventh amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the eighth amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the ninth amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 10th amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. You want to explain your voice? Please. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u149	Your Honor! The area of higher education and thus indirect science is the area where we should seek the greatest possible social consensus. This is an area on which the vital speed of development of Slovenia and its position, as well as the quality of life of people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all who live in its territory, in the future. For this reason, I would deserve to take the time to proposers and seek such a consensus. Unfortunately, the opposite happened. In a public presentation of opinions, which was precisely in this Chamber, very many of those who debated expressed express opposition. Many have had individual concerns, although some of these concerns are now embedded in the amendments to the text, but unfortunately, as a whole, there remains the fundamental wrong starting point that the resolution had at the very beginning. This is a resolution that limits rather than fosters competitiveness. This is a resolution that does not guarantee the long term of the competition, which is necessary to ensure the quality of Slovenian higher education in the future through competition between institutions and also through openness. Today, Slovenia has some very quality institutions, but why are individual solutions in this resolution actually a step back from the existing situation? For example, the prohibition of doctoral study outside universities or outside the consortium of institutes provided for in the resolution. This is less than Slovenia already has today and is obviously only about defending the interests of individual lobbyists in the field of higher education; most of these solutions could also be written in such a way as to introduce names either in institutions or those directly concerned. We regret that this is the case, but we will not support such resolutions in the SDS because we want to follow the Slovenian national interest, and this is as much competitiveness as possible, as much quality higher education as possible, openness on the inside and outside in the field of higher education and science, which is by no means guaranteed by this resolution, so we will vote against it. It also raises the question whether and to what extent it is taken seriously, as it is proposed by the Minister, who, at the same time, announced his own resignation in the coming days. The implementation of this resolution is therefore a question for who will implement it. The next government will certainly change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 27. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May 2011. We are moving on to chapter three and moving on to the decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to chapter three. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to the third chapter. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to chapter five and move on to the decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to chapter five. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to chapter six and move on to the decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to chapter six. Explanation on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, although we are today adopting a resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy, we are proposing a solution here that has already touched secondary school. What is the problem in Slovenia – and not only in Slovenia – with this problem, although perhaps less than Slovenia itself, the whole European Union is facing a problem? Too many good innovative ideas, too many research results, sometimes produced with a lot of resources, with a lot of invested sources of human, knowledge, money All manufactured product, created ideas we simply can't bring to life. [[…]] It is, therefore, that entrepreneurship is to a greater extent to be cultivated as both value and knowledge. After all, entrepreneurship also requires precise knowledge, specific abilities, precise competences. For this reason, we propose that this resolution should include the introduction of the basics of entrepreneurship already in secondary school and that this should cover all secondary schools, the secondary system as a whole. In order to address one of these fundamental problems already at the level of education, entrepreneurship as a quality is being raised for young people. That even in a conversation no one else would think that when he speaks of entrepreneurship, that he actually uses sometimes, and there is still a lot of tendency, unfortunately, to do so, some negative call, as if it were something bad. The modern world, a globalised world, including the world in which we carry out research, innovative activities, therefore, is based on entrepreneurship. And it's about giving this knowledge of success in this world to younger generations, at least at the level of high school. That is why we are proposing, and in the SDS, we will also do so to support this amendment in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. In his own name, Mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In explaining my vote to this amendment, I would like to say that the announcement in the paper, when the parliamentary group is thinking about whether or not it will support the amendments, is completely flawed and misleading. All that could be accepted from the SDS proposals was adopted in the form of amendments at the meeting of the home working body. However, the adoption of this amendment would be totally unacceptable because the resolution on higher education interferes with the subject and the obligations of the secondary school. At a time when the subject is being tried in high school to control and reduce the number of subjects due to a number of obligations, a special subject would be introduced. In doing so, I should point out that the basics of entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship can be seen as a focus already among the objectives set out in the Basic School Act. It is impossible to talk about the absence of these incentives in our school curricula. Now to think that this would have been done through a special subject, but so far it has proved to be in school — if you wanted to stall something, it had to be turned into an object. So this amendment cannot be supported, I stress once again, as well as everyone else. True, many amendments were adopted on the home work body, which were mostly editorial in nature. And also as regards the coherence of the various stakeholders in higher education and research as well as in the economy, I believe that this level of coordination has been very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u155	I merely suggest that you warn the lady who has just spoken, as well as everyone else, that we are now in the second resolution. For she specifically said, "the resolution on higher education". We are now considering a resolution on Slovenia's research and innovation strategy, that is, one that covers a much broader area than the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 41. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 23. Agenda item – Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Construction and Operation of a Centre for Research with Anti-Protons and Iones in Europe and the conclusions of the Conference of Commissioners for the Establishment of a Centre for Research with Anti-Protons and Iones in Europe. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under the heading below, we will consider the proposal by the Government to appoint a member of the Section of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The proposal for appointment was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary group to present my position. Jože Tanko, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we have some decisions that are linked to the so-called human resources paradigm. This refers to solving the human resources problems of naming people on the basis of permanent speculations and coalition overplays, during tampering, including abuse in procedures and so on. In short, even what kind of revenge within the coalition has not been ruled out so far. Here we see that these things are going very confusing, even in many cases. in which the Government is recruiting, even in these last days. Even in cases where human resources procedures are carried out through the National Assembly, or the latest cases where the main key decisions in the recruitment of state-owned companies are led by the Capital Investment Management Agency, and there is also a number of cases contrary to the rules, the procedures it has put in place. In this particular case, we have before us the appointment of a member of the Executive Board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, because something similar has happened within the Government and the government coalition. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have already had one procedure for appointing a member of the expert council, that this was dealt with even on the working body, on the Mandate-Election Commission, but in some surprising way, this proposal has disappeared between the Chamber in which the Mandate-Election Commission is sitting and this Chamber in the National Assembly. It appears that this main parliamentary corridor is a sort of Bermuda Triangle, where, without any reason, certain things disappear without explanation and there is no more talk about them. And this proposal has disappeared contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, in Article 118, specifies exactly how these procedures work. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that the mandate of the current member of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, mag, has expired on 25 January this year. Katji Christmas, and a key institution that oversees the important work of the financial sector, is not working in the full composition. And this is not for reasons related to the opposition, but only for reasons related to the decisions of the government and also to the coalition in the National Assembly. Although in the previous case the Government was informed in advance that the candidate they had previously proposed was in a conflict of interest that it would not be able to perform functions over half the insurance system, the minister insisted on the appointment and the coalition confirmed it; then they changed their minds in some way. The fact that the Insurance Supervisory Agency is so long without a member is probably not good for the functioning of the insurance system is not good for the supervision of the insurance system, as control has certainly been impaired during this interim period. I would not be surprised, however, if later, even in this staff proposal, there might be some inconsistencies or some important exception from perhaps the previous section of the candidate, since nothing happens in this coalition, all matters are intended. And if he doesn't have good political references, then he probably has some other references to be appointed to such an important and responsible function. In the future, we may also hear about some matters related to some of the costs associated with former jobs and so on. In short, there is likely to be some surprises later in this proposal. We won't support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Miran Jus as a member of the Section of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 21. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. Under point b, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal of the Judicial Council for an election to a judicial function The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for election to a judicial function, namely, to the Court of Justice of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Valerije Jelen Kosi to the judicial seat of the higher judge at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point c, we are moving to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. [[He won't.]] The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Here it shows that this recruitment you are proposing, or this selection of staff you are proposing for appointment as a member of the RTV Council, is not the best and has quite a few shortcomings. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there have been candidates on this call who have had significantly better professional predispositions than the candidate selected by the coalition as a member of the Radio Television Programme Board. Among them, among these candidates was one with a doctorate, with good film experience, this is a person who is probably very competent for assessing the preparation and discussion of the Radiotelevision programme, but unfortunately this person has not been selected. She was selected to be a high school graduate when she was educated. And that must be some indication of how this human resources paradigm works in this area as well. Not only does this person have a modest education, but here we can find that this person is in some way also in conflict of interest. In fact, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, who is also responsible for the public service Radiotelevision, is the brother of the candidate selected by the coalition as a member of the Programme Council. And this shows that the coalition doesn't care a bit about preventing any connection, personal connection, family connection, and here the best way to show how the Broadcasting Act or the Media Act will be implemented in fact in the key Slovenian national media, Radiotelevision. We will not support this proposal for two reasons, that is because it does not have the necessary professional and educational competences compared to other proposed candidates, and not because it is a direct relationship between the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, which is relevant, indeed, and between the Programme Council and the candidate for a member of the Radio Television Programme Board. I think that responsible policy should have some suitable vats to assess what is even more hygienic and from where forward these nominations are actually vulgar and go beyond some ethical code that is needed for appointment in public institutions under direct political control, including the political parties that have appointed this Secretary of State. In short, we will not support the proposal, but I also propose that the coalition seriously consider whether such proposals will continue and will de facto lead to the end of this mandate, which remains for you. I hope these things end one day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate of the Members and Members. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. [[He won't.]] Is the word Josie Tanko? [[He doesn't want a word.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Borut Pelko as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 17, of the RTV Act, for a period until the end of the four-year term of office of a member of the Programme Council whose term ended prematurely. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, it will be 26 or more. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 26. [[The vote was 45.]] [[against 26.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under item, we are moving to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Following the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, the position of the SDS Group will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u161	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have already analysed the work of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund many times and in a detailed way, particularly in the last period, in the period when it reached out to Minister Radic's staff solutions past the fund's authorities. In fact, it is worth underlining once again that the Fund for Decommissioning is a Fund set up by Parliament with a specific law and has its bodies — the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board — and that the Director of the Fund is chosen on a proposal from the Management Board and that the Government also approves that Director or Director on a proposal from the Management Board. It has happened, for the first time so far, that the Government has appointed, past the Management Board, the Acting Director, Mrs Ksenjo Žnideršič Planinc, who has done tremendous damage. Not only did economic damage in financial terms, but it did a great deal of damage to the reputation, position and, of course, to the wider issue of the disposal of radioactive waste in that country. This fund became a financial service to the tycoons or people who were close to the director or the political option that this director also placed. I hope that all these events will also be played by the Commission responsible for preventing corruption, as some of the suggestions have also been made in this direction. Of course, this strengthens our conviction of the importance of controlling the operation of this fund. The Supervisory Board shall consist of representatives designated or elected in Parliament. I think that because of these revenues, when the ruling policy has so radically intervened in the management of this fund, it would be hygienic, not only hygienic, but also prudent, that the opposition can be given more weight in controlling the operation of this fund. On the contrary, the majority on the Mandate-Election Commission endorsed the coalition proposal and so we now have a proposal on the table for an alternate member of the Supervisory Board, which was proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We therefore object to this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we had our own, better candidate, which, unfortunately, did not receive a sufficient majority at the Commission's own meeting and that is why there is not actually this proposal today. We therefore remain to repeat the exercise that this concrete proposal does not receive support today and to repeat the procedure for this alternate member.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, of course, we will support the candidate, because of course we are confident that he will do his work faithfully and honestly. This kind of political debate shows that we are not mature and we are not aware of one particular situation. Coalition and opposition are changing. Nor was one mandate previously significantly better. The safety of the nuclear power plant and the Decommissioning Fund is certainly something that is, of course, beyond the range of daily policy. Unfortunately, that's not how we act in this story. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are proud to be one of the founders of this fund, which, of course, worked properly for the first years, all the money collected for this account is there. In recent years, however, the management of this fund has, of course, deteriorated considerably. It wasn't better than the last one, not in this term. However, we believe that those who will be elected to do so without having to give up, but to do their important task without political influences in a qualitative, responsible way, and above all by increasing the assets of the Fund to the maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Milenko Ziherl has the word. [[No, no, ……]] The word is Ivan Grill. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u165	Your Honor! Interestingly, now that the Mandate-Election Commission has submitted such a proposal to the plenary with a political majority, it is no longer a place for politics, now it is a place for expertise; it would probably be reversed if someone else were here. So that's really funny. Of course, any policy option that proposes a candidate has first-hand the criteria of expertise. Any candidate who comes at all must meet certain professional criteria in order to be competent and responsible for his work. But it's a matter of trust whether you trust a certain candidate or not. And that's the problem. And in view of the reputations or recent events in this context, in the opposition, we have completely or completely lost confidence in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because not only are we as politicians but also the body of the Fund, the Fund's Governing Board has found that it was a biased, non-economic decision in this context. Therefore, it seems to me that the control of this Fund’s operation should be stepped up. And there's no generalisation and saying, "There was something wrong in all the mandates," is there? For the first time in the history of this Fund, the Governing Board, which is a body called to oversee current business, has found non-economic. So far, there have been no and so far assessments of whether or not the Fund has been more or less a matter of a political assessment of this or one option. Now it's a body that, I hope, because you named it in this coalition, because it's not an old board of directors, a new board of directors has found out that it's not an economy. More. This inequity was also found by the Minister herself, i.e. the proposer of the same person. And that's why to throw and generalise, if you do, 'cause it's in the last period of the previous term and so on, something is wrong', it just doesn't. Now it is wrong and it is now necessary to tighten control, and this is also crucial in choosing this human resources solution that we are deciding on today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. That's typical of the coalition MPs. When something is wrong, the blame will spread, no matter who causes it, and when there's a good thing, it's us, it's just us. I would just like to point out here that in this case this Fund has not been abandoned by the members appointed by the coalition to this body by the opposition's proposal, which, in this context, does not exist in this body, but has been withdrawn by members appointed by a coalition of their people to this body. And here it must be said that the bodies of the NEK Fund in this mandate are purely coalition, and the nerves of the management of the fund have been lost by some coalition candidates in this harmony, some, not all. This is obvious to some, because these organs are slightly more numerous; so far, two have resigned, who felt inappropriate to act illegally and spend resources for purposes that are not in accordance with the law and the purpose of this Fund. That the hypocrisy is even greater, the coalition is the one that in some way generates new personnel in this supervisory body and according to the statements of the LDS Group of Members, there will be one who will not see anything wrong in this agreement. So it was possible to understand this statement a few moments ago in this hall. It is also interesting that none of the government coalition requested any debate in the National Assembly. When we discussed the Fund's reports prior to this mandate, at the request of the coalition, the current coalition on the Commission's budgetary control was included twice, three times, on how uneconomicly the Fund's conduct was in the past mandate. None of this has been established, none of this has been confirmed, none of this is true, despite the fact that you have all the instruments in your hands — that is, the real executive power, which is called, even past the rules of the Fund’s management, nor the control work that we call it in the National Assembly. Nothing came up, no procedures were initiated. However, it was only that some persons, the unloved persons of the coalition, although they were professionally competent, tried to discredit and defile themselves. It'll come in handy in the future. Here I must say that I have great difficulties myself to support the candidate, because the task of the coalition is obvious until the end of this government's mandate only to serve to cover all abuses, frauds, bad decisions, illegal decisions. This is the only task and obviously the coalition at this point and only because of this point will it last to the end, much longer than it would have been necessary and meaningful. It would be right for all these detected irregularities, not only in this framework, which is for several million euros, but also in other areas, such as Dars or the Capital Investment Agency, to be forced to recapitalise. Some banks have also had a debate in the National Assembly over the conduct and disagreements of the public authorities. None of what's happening now has been caused by any of the opposition. Nobody. This is done by the people you named most of the time, the remains of the previous work, including your personnel, and the coalition here stands steeply behind all these people. On the other hand, there is much debate about privileges. Isn't it a privilege for someone to illegally spend, I don't know, or is he investing six, seven million euros without proper grounds and conclusions? It's a privilege. This is an enormous privilege, and all those who are preparing the matter now, the privilege, would be wise to let yourself first in the privileges of those who spend millions of dollars. This will make you credible. And of course, to put on the agenda the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property. This marriage you filed is not from anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which it is magnified. Vojko Sotošek is appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 26. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point d, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission for the determination and assessment of the actual state of issue and funding of the free weeks "Slovenian Week" and "Express". The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, for 73, for 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the case of Patria. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 21. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 4th A-point of the agenda, which is to defend the proposal of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Road Transport in the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u169	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Transport 2C amends or new rules five key areas. The first area: the 30-day payment deadline with solidarity responsibility is proposed in a comparative practice already implemented for the transport and agricultural sector in the French Republic. The period for payment of the fee in the contract shall not exceed 30 days after the invoice has been issued or no longer than 60 days after the service has been completed. Infringement of this legal provision is sanctioned, which means that only a party who knowingly determines in the contract a longer period than the statutory time limit will be in breach. Second area: Direct granting of public authorisation for the distribution of licences and licences. With amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, the power to grant licences and licences directly to the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is conferred. In this regard, the powers and tasks of individual bodies shall be redefined. However, the provisions which have so far governed the exercise of the public authorisation to grant licences and licences shall be deleted. Third area: Identifying legal bases and competences for the Public Passenger Transport Directive. One of the main objectives of the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia is to stop the decline in the number of public passenger transport users and to achieve their increase in the long term. One of the tools for this is the integration of public passenger transport services, which will be implemented through an integrated public passenger transport project, which will ensure the introduction by the end of 2013 of a single ticket and harmonised bus and rail timetables. In order to effectively manage and manage a complex system of public passenger integration, it is necessary to establish a public passenger traffic management service, which will serve as a public passenger traffic manager at rail and bus level. Fourth area: Adaptation of legislation to European regulations. With regard to European Regulations 1071, 1072 and 1073/2009, individual provisions of the law are being amended and the application of those Regulations is being established. The proposal provides for the establishment of a national electronic register of transport companies, through which data on licence holders and infringements by carriers will be kept at home and in the Member States of the European Union. In addition, competent authorities in the Member States of the European Union will be informed via the contact point on infringements by foreign carriers. With such a record in the register, the carrier will demonstrate compliance with the conditions for obtaining the licence. The final area shall be governed by the verification and validation of licences. The scope of checking and attesting licences in companies is reduced, thus involving only carriers from third countries with which we do not have a liberalised mode of operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jank Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. At its 20th emergency meeting, held on 20 May, the Transport Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the draft law, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, said that all amendments adopted by the Committee at the 17th emergency meeting with the same content were taken into account in the proposed legislative text and that the legislative procedure had been terminated due to the non-admission of articles. The proposed bill introduces the Institute of the 30-day payment deadline for the payment of the fee and payment of the solidarity debtor, thereby improving the situation in motor activities as a weaker article compared to other larger business entities. The draft law lays down the competence of the Directorate for Public Passenger Transport, whose administrative task will be to manage and manage integrated public passenger transport at the level of the Republic of Slovenia. The establishment of a comprehensive management of the integrated public passenger transport system will take place at two levels at the level of setting up the Public Passenger Transport Directorate and at the level of implementation of the Public Passenger Integration Project. The bill also provides for the distribution of licences for internal traffic and international licences and the sharing of licences. The legislative and legal service has also reviewed the law and, above all, has made a general conclusion that, given the scope and complexity of the proposed amendments, there is a substantial excess of the criteria which allows for the amendment of the applicable legal text under the established nomotechnic rules. They say we should make a new marriage. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development also addressed the text of the law and stressed its support for the additional protection of motorists and also supports the proposal for solidarity. The Committee has also adopted amendments, namely the SDS Group on Articles 2 and 61 of the Act, and has also adopted several of its amendments. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the bill and after the debate and vote on the amendments, he voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thus, the text adopted today at the meeting of the National Assembly is also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to point out that the changes and additions are so extensive that the Ministry should prepare a new law because this is contrary to our rules of procedure and the law would be very imprecise. It is true that there is a need to act quickly in the economic crisis, but the Government must respect the rule of law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Members of the Slovenian People's Party, however, welcome the measures, as at least one measure will finally be taken to help at least one sector of the economy more effectively, and that the law will bring provisions that improve the position of motorists. In particular, the introduction of the Institute of Solidarity Responsibility of the debtor and the payer of the fee within 30 days will improve the situation in motor activities as a weaker article compared to other major business entities. In doing so, care must be taken not to create new injustices, inequalities before the law for other industries or to violate other rules already in force, both the Bond Relations Act and the recently adopted Law on the Prevention of Late Payments. We support the regulation and the establishment of a comprehensive management of the integrated public passenger transport system, which will take place at two levels at the same time. The bill also provides for the distribution of licences for internal traffic and international licences and the distribution and use of CEMT licences. The granting of public powers and powers to share licences and licences is also defined. This law implements certain requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and Economy in general, and we therefore support the law. Above all, we hope that, at last, there will be a greater link between bus and rail transport in Slovenia, which will have many positive consequences. In addition to better accessibility and faster transport for passengers, this solution will have an impact on cleaner air and reduced emissions, thus reducing the traffic of passenger vehicles to larger centres. However, the additional condition for this is certainly also the price acceptability of such transports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act is one of the laws by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to respond to the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. According to the motioner's assurances, i.e. the Minister of Transport, these legal novelties are intended to help reduce the consequences of the crisis on the road transport activity, regulate relations in the transport sector and pay discipline. For the Novela sets a 30-day payment period with a solidarity responsibility. Solidarity responsibility is necessary because of the specific nature of the operations contracts concluded between the two parties in favour of the third party. The legal novelty also simplifies the Institute for checking and certifying licences in companies and establishes a framework for the powers and tasks of the Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. The establishment of the Directorate will ensure a higher level of professional autonomy, efficiency and quality in the management and management of the tasks of the public passenger transport system. To this end, human resources and financial resources will be pooled, which also means a more systematic and rational use of budgetary resources. The government wants to promote one of the least used public transport by setting up a Directorate and introduce a network of integrated passenger transport. This project is already under way at the Ministry of Transport. It will end with the integration of timetables and the introduction of a single ticket. The fact is that public passenger transport is very topical and difficult. The rapid and effective measures at the level of the country, regions and municipalities of Slovenia are last but not least after the use of public passenger transport between the Member States of the European Union, which clearly shows the neglect of this area at all levels. [[…]] Eurostat data show that 3,2 % of all passengers traveled by train in Slovenia in 2006 and 3.6% of passengers by bus and 91.3% by passenger. Measures to promote public passenger transport must also be included in the climate change mitigation and adaptation programme. In recent years, Slovenia has overtaken and even overrun many Western European countries in terms of motorisation. In Slovenia, the number of registered cars increased by 37% between 1995 and 2007, which means that road traffic in our country is increasing significantly. At the same time, the interest in the use of public passenger transport is falling sharply. The State is seeking to halt the decline of many public passenger transport users and to increase it in the long term also through an integrated public passenger transport project, which will ensure the introduction of a single ticket and harmonised bus and rail traffic schedules by the end of 2013. To this end, this system will be incorporated into the novelty of the operator, the Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. In order to effectively manage and manage a complex system of public passenger integration, it is necessary to establish a public passenger traffic management service, which will have the function of public passenger transport operator at rail and bus level. The management of public passenger transport in cities is under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities and full integration at the level of the single ticket is envisaged to conclude contracts at the level of the municipalities in which relations and compensation to cities will be regulated at the level of the contracts. Foundations for further development and improvement in public passenger transport will be created as activities will continue after the completion of the integration project. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill, hoping that the situation in public passenger transport will improve at least a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u177	Dear Mr. Vice President! The new law is adopted a second time within a month following an emergency procedure, the purpose of which is to be laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the adoption of the law is necessary in the interests of the security or defence of the State or in order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters or to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, which is not detected in this case, since this is not the way in which carriers are dealt with. The law did not receive sufficient support on the labour market, but the government has re- tabled the law and reduced the time limits for discussion and comments, irrespective of the previous hearing. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that the law is not suitable for adoption, since it does not solve the problem of motorists, especially the licenses of motorists. No solutions are expected, but due to the increasing competition, as the applicant also points out, the system of transport licences is indeed necessary and quickly and logically regulated so as not to block and lose profits. In the debates of the professional public and the working body, dilemmas regarding the granting of licences were raised. This has been written by experts in the field of public administration, and we hope that after the adoption of the law there will not be a legal void, as is generally the case in this country in a wide range of areas, and this novelty will also be disabled and will not justify the adoption of a regulation. In order to effectively manage and manage a complex system of public passenger integration, it is necessary to establish a public passenger traffic management service, which will have the function of public passenger transport operator at rail and bus level. The management of public passenger transport in cities is under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities and it is therefore envisaged for full integration at the level of the single ticket to conclude contracts at the level of the municipality in which the relations and compensation to the cities will be regulated on the basis of contracts. The question is whether this will come to life in practice, since it is like a divisional balance sheet of municipalities 16 years ago, which was drawn a few years ago. Foundations will be created for further development and improvement in public passenger transport, as activities will continue after the completion of the integration project. Whether this is really going to come to life, we ask ourselves in the Slovenian National Party. It therefore adds and regulates "shuttle" transports, out-of-line transport. Why are you restricting travel between hotels, airports, ports, only to passenger cars? Why can't a little bus be normal or, at an extreme stage, normal? This is a question more for competing lawyers, and I hope that the article will not end in the Constitutional Court. It is also the vague role of municipalities or their ability to grant permits, so I ask whether one permit is required for the "Shuttle" carrier between Hotel A in Ljubljana and the airport of Jožet Pučnik. Which congregation gives permission? And the price collectors, how do the congregations coordinate them? In view of the above, the amendment will create even more confusion and problems, which will be revealed in a few months' time when we are confident to accept the amendment of the novel. We will therefore vote against it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellow Member, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members! In Slovenia road transport is an important economic activity. Together with other modes of transport and logistics, it creates around 16% of Slovenia's GDP. The fact is that auto-transport activity, like the other economy, has been severely affected by the economic crisis, since it is almost entirely dependent on the flows of goods that are conditioned by economic activity. This is the second time we are considering the law with the same content, if of course we take into account the amendments adopted on the home committee. There is no point in losing words about the complications and the early conclusion of the legislative procedure at the previous sitting. However, we would like to point out that for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, such an important proposal is by no means the first in this mandate to bring about specific measures to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis in the automotive sector. Unfortunately, a number of other economic activities have not received similar attention, which road transport factors often forget. This attention has certainly also helped to gradually revive this activity, as recent statistics show that Slovenian road hauliers transported 8% more goods in 2010 than they did in 2009 and 8% more ton kilometres and 7% more ton kilometres. The proposal for a law in this part lays down, inter alia, a 30-day payment period with a solidarity of responsibility, directly grants public authorisation for the distribution of licences and licences to both the Chamber of Commerce and Business of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, and simplifies the institution of verification and validation of licences and authorisations in companies. In LDS, we do not mind finding that the Institute of the 30-day payment period must be introduced to mitigate the economic crisis. However, we are disturbed by the fact that the Chambers have to this institute, as well as the solution, which, as a solidarity bond for the payment of the fare, introduces the sender or the recipient, is diametrically opposed to the point of view. We believe that such a path, when certain solutions are opposed to an important part of the economy, is not good. We regret that the Chambers have failed to agree on these two issues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are of the principle that it is not always the best thing to do, that a certain relationship between economic operators, which could only be governed by the economy under civil law, is ultimately forced to regulate the state. So much for this piece of the novel. In the LDS, we also want to highlight the legal intervention in the field of public passenger transport, which remains at the back of the debate. The fact is that the number of passengers in public passenger transport, especially in line bus transport, is constantly falling, which is why there is also activity in the crisis, at least since Slovenia's independence. Unfortunately, despite the environmental, energy and general economic crisis, the main means of transport in Slovenia remains a passenger car, which averages 1.1 passengers. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome any effort aimed at preventing further deterioration of public passenger traffic. In particular, we support the integrated public passenger transport project, which must introduce both uniform tickets and harmonised timetables, both for bus and bus transport, of course. We regret that the project, which means the establishment of a comprehensive management of the public passenger transport system, is taking place too slowly for various reasons. Part of the project is the integration of public passenger transport and part two is the establishment of a separate public passenger transport management service, which will serve as a public passenger transport operator at the level of rail and bus transport. Therefore, in the LDS, we support the establishment of a special body within the Ministry of Transport, which will be responsible for the management of public passenger transport. It will combine human resources, financial resources to ensure a higher level of professional autonomy, efficiency and quality in the management and management of the public passenger transport system. The establishment thus means, on the one hand, rationalisation in the area of the organisation, staff and expenditure of budgetary resources within both the Ministry of Transport and the RS Directorate for Roads. In the LDS, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you. A group of unrelated Members had already come before us for the first time a week ago, and it was intended to support this proposal because it was regarded as a good one, despite the unusual complication and the fact that nothing had changed since then after the substantive pay. We do not intend to change our position, and we will support this proposal this time as well. We feel that it is necessary, however, to draw attention to things that should be obvious to everyone. The law speaks of two components of the law. One of the content sets is the one that really deals directly with transport, its organisation, management and so on, which we in particular support, and the other part is the part that talks about the current problems of road hauliers or carriers in general. This part, which speaks of a 30-day payment period, and this part that speaks of a solidarity responsibility for payments, according to our judgment does not belong to this law, but the Government has not accepted these arguments so far and neither has they now. Only because these two proposals, according to our judgment, do not belong to this law, but to another sectoral legislation, we do not intend to withdraw support for the law as a whole. However, it is very interesting how the well-targeted activity of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia managed to convince the Government that it has proposed and will also adopt some laws which the other part of the economy opposed. Not only do they have such concerns in relation to this proposal of concerns in the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, but they had similar concerns when the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in some way demanded the law, as it is now, on the prohibition of black work, or on the law as it is now applicable to the prevention of late payments. Even then, we heard very strong, important arguments from the other part of the economy, which the Government did not listen to. In one part, this is already taking revenge on us with a negative effect when one of these laws is decided by the people at the referendum and shows that it will fall. And we still believe that, on such concerns, the Government should be more patient, make different decisions and that Parliament should listen to them. However, the purpose of the government, which is fundamental to us, is to regulate a large part of the transport area. For transport and public passenger transport, the proposaler himself says that he is neglected in all areas. And this neglect of public passenger transport in all areas is also reflected in the negative effects, not only in economics, but also in the field of environmental impact and also negative in the protection of consumer interests. The government is proposing some measures to be implemented by the three bodies at strategic level: the Ministry of Transport, at the second level, by a body responsible for public passenger transport – the future directorate – and at the third level with the direct mandate of two of the chambers, to which we have also heard a number of comments and concerns. These three authorities are expected to contribute to not being so neglected in future public passenger transport as they have been so far in order to be effective in order to be rational, both in terms of the organisation of personnel and the resources needed to manage such transport. Because in this area we hope that integrated passenger transport will do something to improve both environmental impacts and impacts on the interests of consumers, we will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is, we can say, an effective response by the Government to the fact that motorists face extremely serious problems when it comes to paying their services. Finally, it is a response to the fact that interest in public passenger transport is declining in Slovenia from year to year. So only the text of the law really solves these acute problems in Slovenia and it is particularly important that it solves them in a way that is consistent both with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and to a large extent also with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In fact, the payment deadline itself is supposed to be 30 days under this law and, of course, also imposes on the third party the responsibility of solidarity to make the services rendered to the motorists. Although this is opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, comparison with other legal orders in Europe shows that this solution is appropriate and, of course, also in our Group of Members, we expect an effective response to payment discipline in the case of motorists. The law also deals very effectively with the power given to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to grant licences and licences to carriers. It is a matter of maintaining good practice, which has been detected in the work so far both at the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in this field, and also within the European Union this power has been verified, so that these two chambers are directly empowered by law. Integrated public passenger transport is, of course, faced – mainly because of its lack of coordination between bus transport and rail, public passenger transport – with major problems, so that the joint body which will combine these different interests is listed in this law as a Directorate for Public Passenger Transport. It is a fact that for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, we will have to have a body that will, of course, have to prepare appropriate solutions to bring the timetables in line, and not least that we will also get a single ticket in a very timely time, which will in fact become an even more effective way for users to make a greater decision to take them to work or anywhere by means of public passenger transport. Let me also say that we are not in favour of the SDS Group of Social Democrats; these amendments are intended to transfer public passenger transport powers to the Railway Agency. However, it is our view that an attempt to dominate one public passenger system is before others, and this would certainly cause additional problems. Finally, we do not support the transfer of licences and licences to the Customs Administration, as so far the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Industry has done very well in this area. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment tabled by the coalition and, of course, also support the text of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u185	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Director of Transport, Colleagues and Colleagues! Initially, in our parliamentary group, we would like to say that the Road Transport Act, this supplement is not an auto-transport law, as has been said in public all the time and has not been broken by the SDS. There were no coalition members on the Committee on Transport, so we are sitting again today. And if the Government were to only propose to the auto-transporters that their initial request, payment deadlines are said, then perhaps this would be the right thought to discuss in general the payment deadlines in this country, along with the other sector. Thus, the Government was forced into this law, in our opinion not only because of the needs of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but also because of the threat. The threat of road closure and road blocking was withdrawn only if the memory does not deceive me after the meeting of the Transport Committee. And it is no wonder, then, that in this law, in addition to aiding the auto-transport with a payment deadline, which we hope will work with, of course, we have another requirement of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, which, according to our assessment, is a monopoly and a pure conflict of interest. By law we grant licences, distribution of permits to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. But look, we have at least one more chamber, this is the Automobile Chamber, and in some ways we limit the freedom of the Chambers, and so to the representative of the Automobile Chamber there is nothing left to do but write out from the Automobile Chamber and transfer it to the Chamber of Commerce, because it can reasonably be feared that he will not be granted a licence because he is not a member of this Chamber. And this is a conflict of interest, so we thought it was better, and we also proposed it with an amendment to the committee, and today we repeat it so that it could be transferred to a state authority that can also grant such public powers. This is the Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which also has its own staff, technical and other resources, and I am sure that it would also be agreed by the European Union if it was already necessary to go there to seek this agreement, rather than by the two chambers. And why isn't that an auto-transport law? Because, in order to make the law easier to adopt, there is also a decision to set up a public passenger transport authority with nothing to do with motorists. It is not that a body that will take care of the administrative level for the integration of public passenger transport is not necessary, but that we do not believe it is necessary in this novel. It would have been better if the Government had passed a law on integrated public passenger transport on the table and had established that body, which would probably have been referred to as a public passenger transport agency. And when the government, as promised by the Minister of Transport, prepares it, it is likely that this public passenger transport authority will become a public passenger transport agency – another body more in the wealth of administration. And we have a solution, an agency for rail passenger transport, because there will be no single tickets without uniform timetables. If we have a coordinated timetable between the railway and bus, then we can talk about a single ticket. So our support certainly depends on our support for our amendments. In view of the previous position, however, I fear that we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! The business, according to the domestic business we witnessed during the period of the conjuncture, today showed teeth such as Slovenian economists, in this case carriers, were not yet present. There have been many discussions on possible solutions that the Slovenian government can offer to economic actors. In the context of the novel, the Government, which we do not really oppose in the Group of Members, has decided to adopt certain measures that would directly or indirectly help to reduce the negative effects on the road transport activity. With solutions, we want to improve pay discipline. An important principle, which also governs the area of economy and efficiency, is the functioning of the public service in the field of public passenger transport, as we are laying the groundwork for so-called integrated public passenger transport, which will allow for a greater link between bus and rail transport with greater price acceptability, as the various systems are now being lost or intransparably consumed by around €80 million. In the Parliamentary Group, we have indeed tabled an amendment in the previous legislative procedure within the framework of the parent working body, allowing the municipalities in their territory where taxis are carried out to set the maximum tariff that carriers can charge to their passengers, which the members and representatives of the Ministry have not opposed and have included in the novelty that is before us today. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We continue with the second reading, this is by considering and deciding on the amendments tabled. Given that the parliamentary groups have not announced time to discuss the amendments to this agenda item, it is, of course, a business possibility that, on the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, any declared discusser may only discuss an amendment once. That's our chance. I ask whether I should put this proposal to a vote or not. So, to every amendment, every Member only once. I shall put this proposal to the vote in accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 6. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. You received the amendments on the table. We're moving on to Article 77. I am putting to the debate Article 77 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS. The amendments, as they say, were received at the table. You do not have an overview because the amendments were possible to be submitted until the end of the presentation of the positions and even now. Who wants to discuss these two amendments to Article 77? Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u189	Thank you very much. With the amendment that we have tabled, we propose that the Railway Agency be designated as the public passenger transport management body. This proposal is of a completely substantive nature. In fact, if we are talking, as I said in my position, about the integration of public passenger transport, then we can only talk when the bus and train schedules are harmonised. You will recall that by amending the Rail Transport Act adopted by the Coalition, the Railway Agency has obtained more powers to produce timetables – purely operational production of timetables. What is more beautiful than that of the Railway Agency – and here I do not agree that there would be a predominance – operationally draw up a timetable and align it with bus transport, with the bus schedule? And we have this organ, and this one is qualified, it has equipment, it has personnel, and, of course, it can also get some of the personnel from the existing Roads Directorate that is doing it now. In order to take the train and the bus from point a, from the transport hub in a coordinated manner. All the experiments so far have fallen away because of, of course, they've been sitting at different locations and they haven't been able to make operational arrangements with each other. And today, with this change, the agency has it. So if we want to allow the passenger to drive with a single ticket, of course he will use it; he will use it for the train, he will use it for the bus, but how? So he'll have a nice driving schedule. Nothing more will happen to an organ that is likely to be in Ljubljana than that it will have to be coordinated with the agency. It will be necessary to coordinate whatever organ we already have. And if it's in one place and we already have an organ like that, why should we expand the administration? Why another organ, why another agency, why, if that's what it is? If that is the case and the task of this authority is to draw up timetables. It will only be added to these timetables by bus and we will be able to call them an integrated timetable. We may be able to change the name of the agency, but it will not only be for rail transport, but it will also have part of integrated public passenger transport. In short, it is a purely substantive, operational proposal that will actually make the first most important step: not to leave the bus and train from the station at the same time, but to leave with such a delay that will allow passengers friendly access to public passenger transport. That's all this is about. The only thing is that they will not take the bus and train from Medvod to Ljubljana at the same time. It is therefore necessary to have an operational body and it is. While there will be a new body, how will he draw up the timetable, he will need what? It will need equipment again, it will need software again, hardware, and everything already exists, it will only be upgraded and this part will be added to this agency, which, of course, determines a single ticket and the whole project will be operational and functionally operational. This is why we propose this amendment, which is actually substantive, useful and reduces all the procedures that the new body will, of course, be able to implement before it can come together. I think that this proposal is substantively corrected, constructive and I propose that we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 77? I take it he doesn't want to, is that why you want to? [[...]] Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Jakomin.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The Railway Agency is a safety authority and not an integrated public passenger traffic management body. With our proposal, this body and this function will be independently carried out by the Directorate for Integrated Public Passenger Transport, and therefore we do not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss these amendments and this article? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members, which I must also point out if the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups is to be adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 will become irrelevant. Anyone want to discuss these amendments? Please, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. With the amendment to this article of the law, we propose that the mandate given now by the Law of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce be given only for one year. After the expiry of this period, this allocation of licences and licences shall be transferred to the Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, has its own exhibitions, which means that car carriers could reach licenses and licences in several places. Now it's in law, pay attention – it's legal to have licenses and licenses distributed in at least one place, which means they'll probably be distributed in one place. In addition, when transferred to the State authority, the Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia, we avoid any concern about any conflict of interest and that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will also arbitrarily decide on what is very important, what will be the access of motorists to the market. Now they have the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Scissors and the canvas, of course we must not forget that they have also achieved this with the threat of road closure proposed as the last measure, and that is why the Government has probably given in. The Legislative and Legal Service also considered that this solution of direct licensing to the two chambers – but they are not the only ones, they are still – should be much more justified, it is said. The Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia is a state body and, as such, is, of course, undisputedly clean and could not discuss the conflict of interest. In addition, we have proposed in this proposal that the measures taken by the Minister responsible for transport may be taken when crisis measures or serious business disruptions occur. And I think this is a protection measure for our domestic car carriers, and in the article, let me say, we wrote that these protection measures for domestic car carriers may concern: the reduction of tolls and various charges, the reduction of excise duties, the introduction of various tax exemptions, the reduction of various duties on employees in the sector, additional reliefs for companies operating abroad and so on. And this article is also a meaningful follow-up to the European Union Directive, which sets out what the possibilities are for assistance to motorists. Thus, the Minister responsible for transport would be able to help domestic motorists by precisely writing this article of the law. And in fact, in our opinion, this seems even better than what was proposed. [[30-day payment period]] . What is better for a domestic car carrier than for a minister to be able to provide and adopt a measure, such as reducing excise duties, at the time of the crisis and when it is found. This would be of great help to motorists and not contrary to European legislation, of course for a period to be fixed, and this is also stated in the article until an appropriate improvement of the situation in the sector is found. And even more; then, in the next paragraph, this social dialogue is also established. Representatives of carriers, chambers, civil initiatives may, individually or jointly, when they find out that this is a crisis, propose to the Minister the establishment of a crisis committee. In short, everything is embedded in here, which is actually a real aid to domestic road transport, and I propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 79 and the three amendments tabled? I find that no, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 77. We vote, the vote is on. [[Continuation]] There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under number one is not accepted. For the vote, I am putting to the vote the amendments of the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 77, which is the amendment under Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 of SD, Zares and LDS groups to Article 79. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, the amendments of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant numbers 2 and 3. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 25. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This has made the SDS Group's amendment irrelevant under order numbers 2 and 3. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I take it that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendments of 77th and 79th. To the article and ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these two articles? I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 24. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday, 18. 5. 2011 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. However, since the draft law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Articles 6, 49 and 58, which you received. I give my word to a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, references to the relevant other provisions of the law should be corrected in Articles 6, 49 and 58; therefore, they are entirely editorial corrections in those Articles and we propose that you accept these harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? I'm guessing they don't want to. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 63 votes in favour. No one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the harmonisation amendment has been received. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 46. No one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is 18. 5. 2011 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled that you have received on the bench. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. These are two amendments to Article 6. I therefore put to the debate Article 6 and the two amendments to Article 6 of the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we are witnessing a very interesting situation. Indeed, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were confident that today we would also confirm this law. In view of the developments at the second reading, when our amendment was also adopted by the coalition Members and Members – because this amendment, which we proposed in the second reading, deleted all the provisions that define a new tax for new builders – this is the second time today that we have witnessed such a situation when the coalition suddenly reconsidered itself a few days ago; even today, when we voted on the Wine Act, it is similar. The coalition voted on the committee without actually voting against it, and today it was almost without a vote against it. The same thing happened to our amendment. So at this point, we want legislation to be adopted that does not burden citizens and citizens. This law, or this provision, which you reintroduce to the law through your amendment, does exactly the opposite. So, it's a re-emergency of the new builders. Anyone wishing to obtain a building permit will also have to pay a contribution of €10 per square metre in addition to a municipal contribution. This is a change in the destination of the land. This is unacceptable for us right now, in the situation we are in, and we are opposed to any new financial burdens, because this new tax would in fact mean a huge additional burden for investors. Above all, here we come from the fact that this is a huge burden for young families, for those who will for the first time handle their housing problem. The law is directed against rural areas if this provision remains in the law, because this will mean that people from the village will begin to move out of the village, according to the new duty you are imposing. And we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are opposed to that. If the state really wants to collect this money and with this money to protect agricultural land in some way, then the problem should begin. Where do the biggest profits come from? Where does the maximum added value for speculators who turn land from agricultural land to wally come from? Right then, so right at the beginning. And if so, then the money should be collected there when from three euros one agricultural land becomes worth 400 euros and more. Look at Ljubljana. Around and around the bond or ring, we have new hard land, and from three euros it has become worth 400, even more, given that it is the capital. And why did it take so long to get involved with this marriage, why didn't this marriage come into play a year and a half ago? I am convinced that because Mayor Jankovic was able to take all the procedures, the case was carried out as it was. This law is directed against the countryside. And we simply cannot afford this financial situation, such as that of Slovenia, in order to impose additional burdens on us with different financial burdens on citizens and citizens. We will therefore reject these amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you. The Minister of Mags spoke. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u199	Mr President, honourable Members and Members and other Members present! Maybe just three pieces of information. There is no financial compensation for this law because this law is based on the fact that if agriculture loses one hectare of land, financial resources give us enough money to set up another hectare of agricultural land elsewhere. So if we don't think this law is necessary, then there's no financial compensation, and there's no law. That's a first. Second of all, this law enlarifies agricultural land. What does it mean to clone agricultural land? In fact, according to usability, we set them a price. And the point of this law is that families and young families actually build there, and that's within the complexes within the cities and where there's inquality land where there's zero or close to zero. Well, there's no problem for these families. And there's one more thing. Why is the financial compensation granted at the time of the building permit and not at the beginning of the proceedings? That's exactly what you're saying, Mr. Ambassador. If we followed your first proposal, then big cities – Ljubljana and the second – would be forgiven in this way. Ljubljana and the other cities are also obliged to account for the financial compensation when the building permit is obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u200	He asked the Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Then it's mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u201	Dearly beloved, I, in principle, object to the introduction of new taxes burdening development during the economic and financial crisis. For building outside areas where municipal spatial plans are possible to build, i.e. where a change in urban destination is already given, is not possible, and this is a tax on those areas which are allocated or defined as construction, but it is the first building in these areas. Usually, when you accept and accept municipal spatial plans, you round up the settlements and the settlements also fall in agricultural parcels, areas that are, say, between buildings or I don't know, in some rounded part of the village, which are, in any case, unprespectable for agricultural activity. And of course, as a result, from an urban, spatial point of view, it makes sense to build there, and these people will now be hanged by a new tax. And I ask you, Minister: Have you examined the impact of this tax on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy? How will this new levy, which will not be small, which is not negligible – €10 per square metre – affect competitiveness and the development of complementary activities on farms? I know some farmers in our environment who want to upgrade their agricultural activities with surfaces, walls, etc. in their immediate vicinity on agricultural land. You're going to have to pay a tax for that now. I have no objection to this, dear Minister, if they were to reach for, say, valuable agricultural land, such as those in processing — fields, fields, fields, etc. As a rule, they are abandoned, infested areas, because they are not perspective for farming because they are in the middle of a settlement or are too small because they are bumps etc. Therefore, not only will this measure have a negative impact on rural development, it will have a negative impact on the development of farms, it will have a negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the economy, as economic operators are also expanding many times or, say, are developing in this sense. And once again, Minister, I have no objection to the imposition of a certain levy on the destruction of first-class treated agricultural land. However, I object to the administrative determination of the tax, whether that land is in processing or not, only because it has such status. And I think that with some good purpose, which you probably follow after maintaining production surfaces, etc., you are actually doing much more damage on the other hand than the benefits on the first hand. I wonder if you've changed your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you. Good bye to all of you! The old proverb says the Way to Hell is pressed with good intentions. I would add, even with ignorance, because when you talk about introducing additional taxes, you must also take into account the situation in neighbouring countries and be aware of what this means for the further development of the country of Slovenia. Some people are very fond of domestically saying that the word "tax" comes from drowning. But in this case you are literally drowning in Slovenian development, because if you take into account what I have put at the starting point, the situation in neighbouring countries, I will draw your attention to what I have already talked about in this Parliament several times before, but mainly about this, except for two honorable exceptions, the Slovenian media remain silent as a grave – that in Slovenia it costs now a square meter without this additional tax of walled land there, up to EUR 250 per square meter, near the highway at a good location. In neighbouring Austria, only across the border, but we are physically out of the Schengen area and borders, with 25 euros at such a location, 10 times less. It is even worse if you look at a comparison of a less-quality, slightly more distant land – in this case it is mainly for such land – and there is a price of about 150 in Slovenia, maybe 100 euros in this area, and in Austria you will get a purchase of such a habitable land for 10 euros, ladies and gentlemen! In Slovenia, therefore, you will charge an additional tax per square meter so that the same person in neighbouring Austria can already buy a square metre of equivalent land. Do you even know what you're doing? This means further additional pressure on Slovenian entrepreneurs, all if you want, to move to Austria or to any of the other neighbouring countries. This means further directing young Slovenian families to be, as already are the cases, ladies and gentlemen, and documented, bought hard land in the Austrian Koroška, some open farms there, even such cases are documented because they are so much cheaper land, and moved there, and for this country these people and all the potential that each such person has, every such young family has, every such entrepreneur, forever lost. That's what you're really doing. This reveals this deep anti-development focus of this coalition. And don't say it's just something that will protect the holy Slovenian land. Who likes to talk about it like that? Those who make a very big profit out of it. And these are mostly real estate and bank speculators. And I also point to the fact that a large part of the Slovenian banks portfolio is overblown because it is based on this real estate balloon and is therefore presented as much more favourable to the public and, of course, also for the payment of various ratings to the people who are close to you, because this is in fact on the basis of such overblown and favourable business data of these banks. But one day, sooner or later, it will have to be realized that such differences at such a small distance, when we are in the Schengen area all within the European Union, are simply not sustained, and someone will have to penetrate this real estate balloon. This means that we will have to go in the exact opposite direction as you wish to introduce it with these additional taxes today. These taxes reveal only one thing: you are an anti-development coalition and no wonder we are where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food asked for the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u205	We are, unlike the country you mentioned, on producing only half the grain we need. If you look at the crisis that is currently present in Slovenia with the availability of sugar and the potential crisis shown by the availability of cereals as the first wheat, you will understand why agricultural land should be protected in us. Otherwise, I have to say that I actually agree with you both in principle. We must not build on the best agricultural land. That's also the point of this law and the bonitization. Because if we say that 10 euro per square metre - now listen very carefully, this is at 50 credit points, this is already a bad quality agricultural land. If we have a rating of 1, the charge per square meter is 5 cents. If we have a rating of 10, the burden is 50 cents or 0.5 euros. And what do we do with this marriage? We're directing investments where they belong. Where they don't compete with the best food production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I am absolutely unable to support this amendment because it is necessary to be aware that those who have already adopted municipal spatial plans have identified certain areas and areas, which have already been highlighted in previous discussions. In these cases, at the initiative of citizens, this was extended, concluded in meaningful terms, in meaningful design, and then all the consents of all ministries, including the agriculture ministry, were obtained. Now, by this law or if this amendment is adopted, we are increasing the value of these lands. I believe that a number of these citizens would not have agreed or taken the initiative to extend these areas in terms of purposeful use to a wall. For real use they are agricultural and they are actually rounded up in terms of architectural solutions in individual settlements. Now a certain citizen will receive a tax of 10 euros for such land. That's what I think is retroactive. And there may also be a reason why the Ministry of Agriculture has held certain positions on municipal spatial plans for so long. It is said that this tax will somehow force certain areas to be properly regulated. The problem is for those spatial plans that have already been adopted, which have the Ministry's consent, and we are now increasing the burden on such land because of this tax. I'll go against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u208	The Minister of Mag has signed up. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u209	Dear Member, only information. In the first version of the law we had written that since the change of purpose. And then, just at the initiative of the associations of local communities, both associations of municipalities and arguments, it turned into this. What needs to be said does not change back; where a building permit has already been issued, it remains what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you. I think it must be said very loudly, however, that those who are talking by the SDS about how it is a non-developmental law and thus hindering development, of course, do not. And the reason you're opposed to this amendment is because you're defending real estate speculators. The one who loses because of the change of purpose will, of course, be a real estate speculator. This will have to lower its cost or adjust its cost to sell the land. That's what this is about. You advocate real estate speculators to threaten the real development of agriculture in Slovenia in the future. But once there is no agriculture, then I think we all realize that when we don't have food, then we become everything else as a serious and developing country. Moreover, this law will certainly have a very positive impact on rural development – money from larger urban centres will flow into rural areas, into municipalities where there is less interest in building up than in these larger urban centres. So it is a measure that will also promote coherent regional development and it is a development law and an extremely important long-term law for the development of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 6 and the two amendments tabled? Alan Bukovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister with the Team! If the word runs about Koroška, regardless of which side of the border it is, of course, it is especially true of those who come from there. And if a river had been used that said that the path to hell was pressed for good purposes, I would have continued this discussion with another river and a saying that not all gold was sacred. If Austria's Koroška was mentioned as the region that is interesting to investors from the Slovenian side, let me say that when the labour market was released on our side of the border, a number of companies that want to hire Slovenians and Slovenians, which represent a much lower cost to companies in Austria than Austrian workers, appeared on our side. This would also, of course, bring profit, a greater profit to those companies, and, unlike hiring our people in Austria's Koroška, would hire for twice the cost of people here in Slovenia. And that's why there have already been companies that want to invest on this side of the border, so that all the gold that is lit up in Austria's Koroška needs to be looked at from the other side.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss both amendments? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 19. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS under order number 2 to 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 19. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 19. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Agricultural Lands Act." We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 to 18. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in the framework of the shorter procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 19. 5. carry out a second examination of that proposal within the framework of the reduced procedure. Since qualified applicants have announced amendments for the third reading of the draft law, the assembly has suspended the consideration of this point. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We're moving on to Article 15. May I have your attention, please? We turn to Article 15 and to the debate on the two amendments, under order number 1 on the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors, Zares, LDS, and the amendment under number 2 of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the amendment is in order number one, according to the Coalition's parliamentary groups, which has a substantive connection with the amendment of the same motions to Article 33(1). And if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 33 is irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, an amendment to Article 15 shall be made under Article 1 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, and if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to this Article shall become irrelevant. And since this amendment of the Group of Members to Article 15 is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 33, the amendment to Article 33 becomes irrelevant. All of this is on the table, be careful, I will, so I will put to the debate once again Article 15 and the amendment under order number 1 of SD, Zares and LDS groups and under number 2 of the SDS Group with previous remarks. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] We are moving to a vote, and we are making the right decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 15. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 33 is irrelevant and, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group is irrelevant to this Article. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 18. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, the amendment to this Article 15 of the SDS Group has become irrelevant. It has also become irrelevant to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 33, so I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, DeSUS, LDS and Really to Article 33; the two amendments to Article 33 of these groups. I find that there is no debate, so we are moving on to a decision. We are therefore deciding on the amendment of SD, DeSUS, Zares and LDS to the first amendment of these groups to Article 33. And the note is of course this: this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same motioners to Article 15 No note. [[...]] A respected colleague is not a note. I know what I'm saying and what I'm doing. So we're voting on this amendment. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of SD, really, LDS and DeSUS to the same Article 33, which is the second amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 34 and I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of SD, DeSUS, Zares and LDS to Article 34. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 34. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present and 39 votes against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia proposes to the assembly to adopt, on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the harmonisation procedure of the draft law on safety and health at work. Since the proposal for a law on second reading amendments at the meeting of the assembly is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 29, which you received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment. Please, Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! In the third reading, the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 28 was rejected and, of course, the text of the law, as proposed for third reading, remains without amendment. This, of course, goes against the second paragraph of Article 29, and we therefore propose that this second paragraph of Article 29 be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-24-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? I guess not. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 49. No one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 28th meeting of the Assembly. Goodbye. The meeting was closed on 24 May 2011 at 18.43.
