ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Breda Pecan from 13 a.m., Mrs Silva Črnugelj from 13 a.m. on, Mrs Mag. Sara Wheeler and Mr. Winning the Elinčič Noble. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 20. At the top of the agenda, this is a first-hand proposal for a law on organization and police work. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today you have a debate on two laws governing the police area: first the law on the organisation and work of the police and then the law on the tasks and powers of the police. The government has decided to regulate this area in two systemic laws, because each of these areas represents a whole and will be more coherent in this respect than ever before. This is a similar way of regulating, as we already know about the organisation of justice systems; specifically, if I take the case — the Prosecutor's Law, the Law on Courts on the one hand as an organisational rule, and, on the other hand, the Law on Criminal Procedure as a rule governing procedural rules. And a similar approach was taken by the Government in both of these laws. The aim of the law on police organisation and work is primarily to ensure better organisation and functioning of the police in order to be able to respond effectively to all security challenges. The law also regulates certain specificities of the police, including those of a labour-law nature. This is essential in order to ensure a more flexible organisation and effective performance of police duties. Probably one of the most important innovations in this law is that the police are systematically geared towards the users of its services and that more interinstitutional connection with other authorities is also ensured. In short, this law establishes a so-called partnership, which is an essential element in preventing security events with harmful consequences. This law brings a kind of novelty. Let me mention only some of them: ensure the systematic development of the police, regulate the relationship between the ministry and the police, and in particular specify the tasks the Ministry must perform for the police. It details the direction and supervision of the Ministry of Police with a particular focus on respect for the constitutional, legal and human rights rights. It strengthens the autonomy and autonomy of police administrations, regulates training and education, research activities, which, of course, is also essential for the smooth performance of police tasks, and also regulates certain aspects of labour regulation. For example, the bill defines measures in the form of psychological, social, legal aid and, of course, the protection of vulnerable staff. It is particularly important to point out working arrangements due to some specificities in the police, because we already know the system of regulating these issues in various sectoral laws, both those governing working relationships – health, pension, disability insurance, of course – and then collective agreements. In short, there have been some debates in this regard already at the time of the presentation of the law. They mainly touched on certain specificities, more specifically the additions; most of the controversy had awakened the continuity allowance and, in this regard, the Government had already prepared a supplement that would remove all doubts about this issue, so that we would not deviate from the regime which applies to other comparable professions and that this supplement amounts to 0,33 % and not 0,5 %. Otherwise, I would like to point out in this opening presentation that the police, as a sui generis body, are in fact the largest public administration in the Republic of Slovenia and that this and, of course, its tasks require specific features in police regulation. Its mission is, of course, to protect life, physical integrity, property and so on through proactive action, which, of course, means mainly prevention and prevention, and post-active action, such as the detection of perpetrators of crime and later prosecution. In short, honourable Members, you have a consistent law before you. The Government considers that this is the appropriate text to support it in the National Assembly. This law is, of course, in the interest of all citizens and citizens, in the public interest, and I ask and propose that you continue to give him the support you deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Guido Kres will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With the proposal for a law on organisation and police work, we deal with the first of the two laws that virtually replace the existing Police Act. That is why I will repeatedly touch both of you in this position because you are definitely strongly connected. However, to begin with, the police are supposed to be the service that serves and protects people and is also improving as an organisation, and so is the marriage proposal. Unfortunately, however, today we are in a situation where the state does not have an internal minister, nor a secretary-general, and it is very difficult to draw attention to the current problems that we will certainly be talking about today when there is indeed no man at the competent ministry responsible for future developments in this area. Therefore, the adoption of these two legislative proposals has a somewhat bitter taste, although we must recognise in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the two proposals under consideration show how much work has been put into the background, including in terms of basic analysis of the arrangements in other countries. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore welcome the orientation of both laws to follow successful practices from abroad. In the current legislation, in addition to the Police Act, all too many additional sub-laws, regulations and other regulations are meaningless from this point of view. First, the general criticism of this bill is that, in all objectives and principles, there is much talk about the decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations. However, this, although now the former government, has recently managed to abolish police administrations in Krske, Postojna and Slovenj Gradc according to the Libra project – in our opinion completely without the right argument and quite willingly. So we want to give more autonomy to the police administrations, but at the same time, some of them are being abolished. We regret such unilateral decisions in the Slovenian People's Party and consider them harmful. When we propose the financial consequences of this law, they are initially minimal and are attributed to the extension of the day-to-day insurance rights. [[…]] However, financial implications of €3.5 million are foreseen in 2014, but we are already talking about wage supplements. If I am not mistaken, these are the supplements already proposed by the Ministry and then, due to the negative response of both some of us Members and the public, the proposal has withdrawn. It is true that everything is moving forward in 2014, but who can guarantee what the situation will be then and what are the reasons why it is practically necessary to do so at that time. I also remember – in the Slovenian People's Party, we have warned for months that these supplements are of little benefit to young police officers on the ground with the lowest salaries, which are almost the majority of them, because they have been very busy in the last ten years. The bill also provides for penalties for the reproduction and use of police uniforms, markings and symbols. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, this is a very serious infringement, including from the perspective of the possibility of abuse of the powers of an official who may have very wide scope. It would therefore be worth considering the regulation of harsher penalties, since in the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that uniforms and markings and symbols are simply not a joke. In the past, there have been many speeches about the appointment of the Director-General of Police. The law specifies this procedure and gives an opinion to the three-member commission for appointment. Although it is stated in the bill that the Minister of Government cannot propose a candidate for appointment to whom the Commission considers that it is not appropriate. I wonder whether it would be better to write that the opinion of the committee for the competent minister is binding. At the same time, it is somewhat unusual for a three-member commission to act by a majority of votes, which means that this measure would also nullify the third member's function. The point is above all a questionable aspect of an external expert whose opinion may become completely irrelevant in this case. The same applies to procedures for the selection of the Director of the National Investigation Office. In short, a lot of work and coordination has been put into the law. Major criticisms so far, at least we haven't had a chance to hear publicly, which is why the Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that they deserve support for further consideration. Even to get deeper into it, let us clear up ambiguities and perhaps improve a little bit. So the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on police organisation and work has already raised a lot of dust and caused disagreements between ministries, in particular the Ministry of Interior, public administration and the economy. Apples of the dispute are provisions which affect the area of wages. The proposal provides police officers with a permanence allowance of 0.5 % of the basic salary. The assistants of the heads of the internal organisational units of the General Police Administration and Police Administration, the assistant director of the police administration and the assistant commander of the police station shall be awarded an allowance of 5 % of the basic salary and an additional 5 % of the basic salary for the work of the criminal authority to the authorized officials issuing the infringement decisions. In the DeSUS Group, unlike some, we tend to support this bill. We are aware that the police represent one of the basic foundations of the rule of law and democracy. Police officers risk their lives every day to ensure an effective security system for a very low payment, so DeSUS Members support all efforts to properly regulate the status of police officers so that they can also be afforded dignity and sightseeing through payment. In view of what is happening today, even the highest national and local officials are suing police officers involved in criminal proceedings against this person, it is likely that fewer and fewer young people will even decide to carry out this increasingly undervalued profession. The fact that the secondary police school, from which very good personnel came, has been abolished does not contribute to the reputation of a police officer, so we must at least allow young people a good social situation. The end of the salary, which allows decent survival, also reduces the possibility of a policeman deciding to accept the bribe offered. Even though we will support this bill at this stage, we must nevertheless express the point raised by the warnings from the ground. Some believe that the above supplements are intended to reward only a narrow band of top police bureaucrats who, according to some allegations, are already receiving EUR 7,000 gross wages for their work today, and police operatives are expected to receive only a fraction. I hope that the proponents will provide us with an insurmountable response to this dilemma. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we will also support the proposal for a law on police organisation and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u8	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! From one law governing the area and functioning of the police today, we have two laws before us to replace and regulate this same area. In Slovenia, we are drowning in legal regulations because there are only two, three new laws, which, as we see from practice, does not have a positive effect on the functioning and organisation of individual bodies. But we find out all — more than the rules, less know them, and less respect for them. We are a society that has little respect for the rules that it writes itself, which leads us to injustice and the law of the strongest, where the lowest layers of the population carry it. In 20 years, the National Assembly has amended the legislation in force 4 thousand 257 times, meaning every other day one law. It is noted that this was the most active former government that has broken all the records. All this legislation contains as many as 9 thousand 192 different offences that are considered prohibited and are punishable by most fines. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we see no point in adopting ever-increasing and broader laws, but we see a solution in the reorganisation of organs and departments, in the further education and improvement of public servants, and in the lead positions should be persons who have a long-term vision based on their professional and non-political preferences. We have a law under consideration to reorganize the organization and work for the police. Otherwise, it is more precise in certain articles, but so far nothing has changed in the Minister's powers of dispute, as it continues to allow the Minister of the Interior to appoint the Director-General of Police. The Act also introduces new allowances for police officers. We do not object to the addition to officers with powers of any kind, which does not apply to all civil servants, because it is a different job, but generally this is not acceptable, as a single salary system for public servants should apply. As we can see, a lot of cops leave their species, and there's a lot of cops missing. Certainly not the fault of early retirement, but mainly the fault is poor pay, poor working conditions, overcrowding due to lack of staff and insufficient police protection in the performance of works and tasks. A lot of procedures are being conducted against police officers due to over-authorisation, but not because they would not be professional enough, but because the law does not protect them in their work, especially when they cannot afford to do a superficial job, but they must be consistent, even for their own safety. We can't, and we can't afford to have the prospectors waiting for the cops to come to the scene of what's happening, to insult them and deal with them, which isn't just about football games, where the law is supposed to fix it just a little bit, but it's about a general phenomenon that needs to change. The state must not afford that the police, as a repressive body, are losing ground, for this gives power to those who are consciously violating the law. Police officers should be restored to the dignity and reputation they once had when citizens trusted them and guaranteed the safety of all citizens. Better security in the performance of duties and duties of police officers in the field is one of the sensitive chapters that deserves attention. Police officers, they don't like to talk about it, but it's also a bad thing in the law that every procedure has to provide the police with personal security and the citizen with a corrected procedure. This law repeals the articles of the Police Act, which now regulate the organisation of the police: the appointment of the Director-General of Police, the Director-General of the NPU and the Directors of Police Administrations, working relations for police officers, disciplinary responsibility, education, recognition, and articles on the protection of uniforms, positions and symbols. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that there is no need to divide the law, to change it to the extent it is set up, but to correct it in certain segments where it has proved to be flawed. However, it might suggest considering further rationalisation of police administrations in Slovenia, because given the smallness of the country and the number of police officers in Slovenia, five police administrations would be sufficient. In the light of all the proposed legislation in the Slovenian national side, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, Mr Anton Anderlič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u10	Your Honor! Strengthening the sense of security and confidence in law enforcement authorities, in police and police authorities is only very important for each individual and society as a whole, and therefore all proposals relating to the organisation and work of the police need to be carefully addressed in view of all the circumstances faced by members of this profession. There can certainly be no fundamental discussion as to whether certain exposed functions or cities are foreseen, as well as better rewards for those involved in criminal matters. Unfortunately, most of the discussions have been held in the past about this and competition between individual civil servants is over. I hope that it will prevail in the debate, above all, that this law seeks to upgrade organisation and work in a way that will clearly identify who is responsible for what, how it uses these powers, and that there will be no always evidence that the current policy interferes with the work of the internal ministry or through the internal ministry of the police. That there will be no evidence of non-transparent procedures for the appointment of individual senior officials within the structure, but that this will be clearly and transparently done. After long discussions – and I am sure that this is one of the best things that has arisen in this law – we have practical draft regulations and regulations already on the table and we can look at how any matter will be handled. One of the major shortcomings of legislation in Slovenia is that we adopt laws in the National Assembly, and then we order the Government or the Minister to make rules for the execution of certain things within a year, two or at any time. Here it is presented, explained and everyone can see what it should look like from, if you want, clothes and labels, to some other things when it comes to exercising powers and similar matters. We welcome this progress in regulating this area and will support the law at first reading. Perhaps someone expected further alignment with the other departments and that this would also be properly presented to the public, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Public Administration and to which others. It was also provided in the introductory presentation, namely that these disagreements were resolved and that it would not be difficult for the social partners to agree that the part relating to salaries or allowances would not undermine the law as such. In the Liberal Democracy, we also want to get rid of the feeling in the public that the police are only a repressive body and that in the last period, this is what is being heard in many debates, even outside of official debates in the public, that the police are primarily a repressive body, just an incident and a regulator of such and different penalties, the hijacker of tractors, cars and various other means of transport, but that this law is intended to regulate the organisation and work in the way that this body, the police, in particular, is intended to provide security, assistance to citizens and citizens and others found in the Republic of Slovenia, of course in accordance with the legislation that we now believe, too, in this area, we are in the right direction. A comparative representation of the arrangements clearly states that such a way as is now envisaged would be comparable to those countries which have effective police, friendly police and which ensure a sense of security for all citizens and citizens. Therefore, in the first reading, we will support the bill and believe that it is still time for us to adopt it in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present his position on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, a respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will, of course, support the law on the organisation and work of the police, as it brings important solutions and complements, among which we should list only the most important. The relationship between the Ministry and the police and the definition of the tasks performed by the Ministry for the Police are precisely defined, in line with the implementation of the reorganisation of the Ministry and the General Police Administration. In particular, there is a more detailed definition of the direction and supervision of the Ministry of Police. The powers of supervisors of the Directorate for the police and other security tasks of the Ministry and restrictions on the exercise of supervision shall be defined in more detail when the Prosecutor takes over the direction. The law is better regulated by professional, efficient and rational action and care for the systematic development of the police. The long-term development programme is a strategic document that responds to key issues in the long-term development of the police, and successful strategic planning has provided the right path and direction for the operation and development of the organisation. The police will submit an annual report on their work to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by May of the year at the latest. Particular emphasis is placed on research activities, education and training. Research activities, which are necessary and important for the further development of police and quality cooperation with other educational and research institutions, are also included as a novelty compared to the regulation so far. The police will upgrade the human resources management system in the direction of acquiring and completing knowledge by gradually abolishing the secondary qualification of a police officer and designing higher and higher-level police education. It will also restore and upgrade the spatial and technical capacities necessary for the development of human resources. The law strengthens decentralisation and the autonomy and autonomy of police administrations; the tripartite organisation of police at regional, national and local levels of course ensures this. Compared to the current regulation in the Police Act, this proposal places particular emphasis on the greater autonomy of police administrations and thus the decentralisation of police at the clear strategic points of the General Police Administration. In this regard, the focus on the security problems specific to each area is particularly important, contrary to the centralised determination of work irrespective of the safety issue. The law specifically regulates the specificity of labour relations that allow for the smooth implementation of operational tasks with particular emphasis and concern for employees. The applicant is aware that the law partially interferes with certain specific provisions of the Civil Servants Act and the Labour Relations Act, but these differences are necessary, professionally justified and thoughtful, taking into account good practices from abroad. Most Members of the parliamentary group respect the work of the police and the police. We view it as extremely important, difficult, partly also dangerous and, of course, indispensable to ensure our common security, the security of our property and also peace in our society. Therefore, our parliamentary group has no problem in regulating the remuneration and evaluation of police work; therefore, the law, which also attempts to correct this area to some extent, supports and, most certainly, supports the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will introduce the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We estimate that a great deal of effort has been made in the preparation of the proposal for legislation and sub-legislative acts, and therefore, in most cases in our view, the solutions to the proposal are a real substantive upgrade to the law in force so far. Of course, there are provisions that need to be negotiated and complemented. To talk about this law, the main reason is from a national point of view. In fact, we have expected or assessed that the proposal for this law or by-laws should also regulate the so far disregard for the equal use of the symbols of the national communities, in particular the flags at the fronts of police stations and police administrations in the national mixed area. This issue has not been solved so far. Mr Minister, in another case in the field of justice, has encountered such problems, and he well knows that we have not come up with a real solution when we are ready. In short, the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag accurately specifies the general use of national symbols, but it does not prescribe concrete solutions, so there is also a gap in this area. The problem is mainly because this gap is only in the field of justice and police, in fact in all other areas, including education, public administration, municipalities and so on, this matter is properly and consistently regulated. Therefore, we believe that, if there was still time, there would undoubtedly be a need to upgrade the law or the sub-law from this point of view. Expecting this to happen, we will support the proposal for a marriage at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! Today, Members and Members will have a general debate on two police laws. First, there is a proposal that regulates the basis for a modern police organisation in a normative manner, and then we will continue the discussion with a proposal for a law that will systematically and comprehensively regulate and set up police tasks in one place. But I'll talk about it at the next point. If I go back to the Bill on Organising and Working in the Police, which was being prepared for months, we can say even a year or more, coordinated with the representatives of both police unions, was in public debate and, of course, also in cross-cutting coordination. The bill regulates the organisation and work of more than 8 000 employees in the Slovenian police. The drafter points out that he does not deviate from the principles that have already been followed in the drafting of the comprehensive Police Act; in fact, they express the principle of operational autonomy and the professional independence of the functioning of the bodies and the principle of economic efficiency and efficiency of the body. This bill seeks to regulate the legal basis for the modern police organisation, its management and direction. It is necessary to clearly distinguish between the competent ministry and the police, to regulate specific police labour relations, the status and protection of police officers, training, education and research activities. Above all, there is a need to ensure that the police are more involved in the functioning of local communities and that the police cooperate more closely with other actors, thereby improving the organisation and functioning of the police. At the time of the submission of these laws to the legislative process, there was a disagreement between the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of the Interior at the time, in particular with regard to the provisions relating to additives. The first minister advocated the fact that the single salary system of public servants was being broken, while the second, which was responsible for the police, drew attention to the situation in the Slovenian police, as well as to the promises made by the Government last year during a police strike. In further coordination and presentation of both police laws, an agreement was reached to draw up proposals for amendments to be adopted in the 92nd Article, which discusses a permanent allowance that will be as high as that laid down for other civil servants, to review the provisions governing the situational and criminal allowance and thus to remove disagreements, while also taking into account government promises at the time of last year's strike. I hope all these amendments are ready in time and delivered to us as soon as possible. In the parliamentary group, we want our police to be successful so that they can be linked to the local environment and, above all, to the citizens. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Vinko Gorenak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you so much and good morning! Two findings may be made for the introduction. I think our experts have too little wages and Members are too large. In fact, reading tracts written by professional colleagues is really nice for 3,000 euros. One more thing. [[advertising from the hall]] No, Mr. Anderlich, this is my product. Excuse me. But as for the termination of the cadet, I have to respond because I participated. The Republic of Slovenia was the last country in Europe, and only Albania was behind it, which had abolished a school for police officers in the form of a cadet school in Tacno. So I don't know if anyone wants to go back to the state that was before 1990, then I wonder where we are. But we're going to get married. Look, the law has 304 articles. So far, however, the law — not just this one — is the law, I am talking about both laws, and 137 — the present law has 140 articles. So what has happened in this country that the number of articles in the two laws talking about the work and the powers of the police should be increased at least once? I am deeply convinced that this is too far-fetched and unnecessary for such a strong expansion of laws. As far as this law, the law on the organisation and the work of the police is concerned, we will not support this law because it would be very difficult to amend. [[..]] As for the one who follows, the situation is quite different; I will say this later in our position. But at this stage of this law, therefore, the law on the organisation and work of the police cannot be absolutely supported. Now I'm gonna go straight to the articles, so we're gonna be a little bit clearer. Article 13, first paragraph – to be reported by the Director-General of Police. In fact, he is expected to report all important issues to the Minister. What are "all the important questions" you can probably think of every minister in your own way? For someone it will be important if they close a Member, it will be important for someone if there was a carambole in his village, I don't know, it's a little difficult. But this is resolved by a constitutional decision. The Minister has from 2003, this is Dr Bohinca's time, the Minister has the right to all the data, this is a relatively clear matter. This is the well-known dispute between Police Director Pogorevec and Minister Bohince when the Constitutional Court cut down and made it very clear that the Minister is, of course, a minister who has insight into all things and all the information the police have at his disposal. I don't see any reason for that definition here. I think it's even a good thing because now in the Police Act – when Minister Bohinc has somehow become self-absorbed and said that the things the Prosecutor takes over will not get involved in. So this arrangement seems to me to be in place and fine. Article 15(3) Look, reporting on police work by 31 May -- what can I say? In the National Assembly, we receive reports from the prosecution, the guardian, the information commissioners, and I don't know who else. We are getting a full report from the National Investigation Office as part of the police, but we are not getting a report on the work of the police as a whole. So it seems to me that these hands should be somewhat aligned with other laws. Such a report is simply to come to the National Assembly, as are the reports of the Prosecutors, the Information Commissioners and others, and should be arranged in this manner. And the deadlines, for example, one March, one May, one June – would have been to be arranged in the same way. I'm sorry to be at 16. The article does not suggest, however, that in Article 16 of the speech on police stations with a specific field of work, which are now part of a new kind of police administration. [[…]] We've known the area and the area so far. The district police stations were those in the nearby territory of the former congregations. But the areas were traffic, borderline, dog, airline police, and I don't know what else. I thought this arrangement was better because the police station is a police station by its very name, but if the applicant thinks that it is better – I think it is not, but this is the situation in the 80s, what is now proposed – but there is nothing wrong with what is special. However, if it is to be strongly opposed, these arrangements are Articles 21, 22, which refer to the National Investigation Office. Now it's a little different than the existing Police Act, it's quite different, but the base spine is the same. It is not possible that we have the Head of Criminal Police of the Republic of Slovenia, who is not responsible for the work responsible for investigating the most serious crimes. This is exactly the same as saying at the clinical center, “there is a group of doctors who deal with the most difficult patients, but this is responsible to the Minister of Health and not to the Director of the Clinical Center”; this is completely absurd. So the National Investigation Office can't be a "cobayagi", sorry, part of the criminal police, and the director of the criminal police is then a paper carrier, coffee, if you like, for the National Investigation Office. For us, an acceptable matter is very similar to that of a forensic lab. It is said that the National Investigation Office in law does, but as part of the criminal police, it is subordinated to the Director of the Criminal Police, who is already subordinated to the Director General of Police. There can't be a job out there like that. It's so clean out there on the payroll, so we're in the clear. I am the advocate that they have high salaries, but that for 800 to 900 euros they exceed the President of the Government, the State or Parliament, but I am not sure that they are right, and this is certainly not. In short, the National Investigation Office in Articles 21, 22 – that as part of the criminal police, which is subordinated to the chief of the criminal police, this is subordinated to the Director-General, and thus we know his legal status. And no Sui generis such stunts, which then allow, of course, the state that we have today, that the head of the National Investigation Office will write an annual report, pack it up, give it to the Director General of Police past the Head of the Criminal Police of the State of Slovenia. So today, the report is packed by the head of the NPU in an envelope, bypasses his supervisor, who is not the chairman, this is the chief of crime, gives it to the general director of the police, and this one glued so that something doesn't fall out, takes it to the minister. The Minister will take a summary on a few pages, and we will also consider it in the coming days, around October 13th, if Parliament continues to operate. But we don't have a report on police work as a whole, that's a very interesting thing. 27th member of the district police station. I'd love it if we had city halls, but it's not a special sin. Article 38 What can I say, it is beautifully written down, it is called “Cooperation with veteran organisations”. When this article came in, and I don't know exactly, but once after 2000, it can also be with our government, in short, I don't know how it got in, but I could say something different to this article, this article is actually an article that makes it possible to finance. The financing of some veteran organisations, which today act as ex cathedra political organisations, exposes the political left in the Republic of Slovenia. Yeah, I'll justify that. If we have a veteran organisation.. la Association north from which I emerged, as you know, because of the recognition given to the former secretary of the Republic of Ertl, and if those who are at the head of this organisation are facing the Slovenian public in television and Holmec to equalize this trade in weapons 1991/1994 with some criminal, other matters, as it has happened, and therefore absolutely defends one political option, then I do not need this article in law. Let them finance themselves, act politically alone as far as they please, and that is no problem; but that the state finances them, simply not. However, if this organization were an organization that acted in the interests of veterans, you know, those who defended this country with a rifle, many of them died, as you know, and then would not object to such an article. But so far the situation is that you are left with a political option; both previous leadership and current leadership, because this is the same story – it exposes some political parties. This, unfortunately, cannot be financed from the budget in my opinion. Well, maybe the fact that we're being more specific. Article 45 – conclusion of the working relationship, only such marginal comment. Point 4; I don't think he can stand any constitutional judgment, but this is not an essential point. The residence in the Republic of Slovenia, this was actually necessary there in 1990, but this is a marginal comment. Point 7 — Someone who is not a member of a political party cannot give up. A little awkwardly written definition that before entering the police, a member of a political party must be waived. If you're not, you can't give up anything. Probably says it's a little more technical to write it down. And paragraph 4 – secondary education is required. A police officer's profession requires secondary education. This is this modern European law that you say is the best law. They were all the ones you proposed so far. And he says high school education is required. Ladies and gentlemen, go to Europe, ladies and gentlemen, go straight to the streets of Ljubljana, and it will be fine. Ask the police on Ljubljana streets, those who stand outside before parliament or those you will meet on the street, and ask him, “What education do you have?” And you'll find out what? At this point they are walking along Ljubljana’s streets about 400, having higher, higher, university education, even what master’s degree is found among them. In short, they already have this education, and we now impose secondary education on them by means of this law. Why is that? Europe is going a little further, Europe is moving on. An elementary police profession requires a lot of higher, high, university, but I think we need to move on. I will also associate this with the additions below, because the supplements can also be saved in a different way than is foreseen in the law. 49. - 53. Article — Appointment of the Director-General and Deputy. Look, I made it very clear here at this counter, even though the Secretary of State at the time was opposed to me, that this is the best European model and he told me how he would send me all the international comparisons. That's not true. Europe does not know the model Slovenia has. The Estonians and the Portuguese know him on paper, but they don't use it. The Spanish also partially and the Belgians, but they don't use it. At least as far as I'm concerned, only the police are allowed to serve as the Director-General of Police and Deputy General. Today's situation allows what? That you're the head of the gatekeepers for 10 or 11 years, so you've been working in security and security, and you've done college, and you've got conditions for the general director of the police, and you've only seen a cop on the road. Such a way of appointing the Director-General of Police is not acceptable. It's just not acceptable. The way in which the Director-General was appointed may be the same as before the adoption of the Police Act, changes made by Mrs Kresalov. There's another joke. This joke remains in this law, even though I have warned him long ago; that is, those who occupy a police officer's post, that is also the Director-General of the Police, must make a statement and go to Tacen to do the exams and so on. Now the law summarises the function of being considered to have passed the police mandate; as soon as it becomes the Director-General, it is deemed to have passed the police mandate. You know, this is exactly the same thing as writing about health care in the law and saying, "as of the date of appointment as hospital director, he is considered to have become a doctor." I didn't become a doctor, he can't become a doctor! Absurd of absurdity. Absurd. All systems in Europe know a different recruitment system for the Director-General of Police, except for us, of course, and here we keep the same thing. 54th to 57th. Article 1 This is the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office. Look, again absurdity, absurdity. Why? The head of the criminal police, allegedly in charge of the NPU, even though it is not, shall be named according to the procedure prescribed. But of course we're getting the President of the Republic involved here, and I don't know what's going on. No, the position of the National Investigation Office, I repeat, is within the criminal police and nothing else, and as a result also the appointment of a chief, like all other bosses in the criminal police, like all other bosses. This can't be any exception. 56–126. Article, now we're there. I ask the proponents, I hope that the minister will come to see where in Europe the same thing is all the articles ahead: paragraphs 57, 58, 127 and 59. Look, here's the thing. Slovenia now has nine police administrations and about 110 police stations. There has never been – and in the European comparisons in the text you have given – no provision has been made – for the discharge and mandate of the police station commander and the director of the police administration. Europe does not know this; it is not visible in the material you have presented. However, until the next hearing, I will try to obtain information on these matters through the National Assembly. Do you know what the law requires? The law foresees that from now on all directors of police administrations and all commanders of police stations will be on the mandate, and from the date of adoption of the law these procedures will begin. I'm sorry, I don't believe you. So you intend to replace the 9 remaining police directors and 110 police station commanders. But to make the tragedy even bigger, I'm asking, where in the state administration, whose component is the police, is any chairman with 10 to 15 people on board? No, no, no, no, no! The police station commander, I don't know, has between 12 and 15 people today. Who else is on the board of state? Except for the organ in the compound that you've made now. As far as I'm concerned, this thing is not acceptable. I don't know why the directors of police administrations and police station commanders should be on the job all of a sudden. Of course, you promised yourself to be in power for another year – you made a little mistake, as it turns out, if you didn't, I will say, but next Tuesday we will see – that you will make all these changes by the end of your term. I don't know why we'd replace 110 police station commanders and nine police directors. And one more thing. For both of us, both the Director of Police and the Chief of Police, there are also conditions for resolution, early resolution, and these conditions are terribly loose. In short, this exchange is not acceptable to us, which will be an absolute political exchange. And there can be no other. Article 60, oath. Everything's fine and fine. It's old-fashioned. I point out to the Deputy, the Deputy Director is also able, now he must go, as in his existing course, to his subordinates, and his subordinates teach him and teach him police work when he is already deputy. But that's a little something. Article 76, paragraph 6 – contrary to the collective agreement; I think that the union, which also looked at this matter on the balcony, is a union. Article 76, paragraph 6 is completely contrary to the collective agreement. Because it says that a policeman can move anywhere in Slovenia. If I know anything, and if the collective agreement is or is no longer in force, I don't know, there's no way to move a man in one direction. If that is the case, I can be wrong, but it is also unacceptable for me to move the man from Raven to Koroška – how will he work? Article 78, first paragraph. Transfer to another body; in my opinion, the prosecution is missing, this is a new situation and I would add the prosecution. Article 89, sentence work. The article is not established in my opinion because it imposes all things, although I am aware that it is already an old law which I also participated in but the police then sold themselves for the box Marlboro and did not require any constitutional judgement for that supplement. [[…]] 92-96. Article, new additives. How did, ladies and gentlemen, Janez Janša's government share candy, says those with kindergarten, and what else did we give, what did it say on those candy bars in 2008, since you listed them a hundred times? Is there anything different here? For 2014, you expect candy for the police to vote for you, or whatever. Why is that? We have told our position, also told by the Minister of Public Administration, but I tell the police the following and the public. There is no reason for the supplements as foreseen because the police will not get them, or they will get one meal, both for €5. The allowances foreseen will go to a greater extent to certain people, including the police chiefs. Addition to the criminal authority, to the management and such matters We already knew the supplement to the management and we stopped it because he was doing all the problems within the police. [[…]] But the thing has to be solved in a different way, and I'm going to say it in public, so the cops will get more than they're supposed to in this law because they're candy. That's the next thing. The basic police profession today is secondary education, Europe no longer knows it, Europe has long gone. It must be written in the law that basic police education is required, of course with transitional periods for older police officers, that we do not send the one month before retirement to school, and that all other jobs are required by the police, from the head of the police environment and from the faculty. Transitional periods should be introduced and police officers should also be paid in accordance with my belief according to the education they have, this is higher, higher, university or whatever they have, because today many are working in high-school jobs with college education. Here is a solution to the problem and not in the candy that you "talate" to them, of course, through transitional periods, meaning that someone who is 15 years old at work does not need it or is considered an experience because the police director is still considered an experience, because he was once the chief of goalkeepers, theoretically under this law, no existing director, of course, then a policeman who worked 15 or 20 years may be considered to have a higher education – let him have it, I have no problem with it. In short, this has to be arranged my way. A few more things. 97. Article, Additional Pension Insurance, Former Bennified Working Time. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Ministry, Minister, things need to be limited to field work. No one, in my opinion, within the police who do not work on the ground can have a bleached working age or an additional pension insurance. Those thousands of 500 people on the General Police Administration or as many as there are, among them, there are musicians and I don't know who all of them have an extra pension insurance today. Why is that? In 1997, I first terminated myself, and then to 500 people — doctors, warehousekeepers, secretaries — this status. Of course, the director who came after me was the best director - I'm talking about Mr. Pogorelco - who brought it back to most people, but that's how it is. This suggests limiting it to field work and no one else. No inspector sitting in an office can have an extra pension insurance. Why is that? Because the matter then escalates into the situation we have today. Many police chiefs or high-ranking police officers, called elephants in the police force, are called today, having their own headquarters on Vodnikov 43 or in Tacno, these are the ones who change them, who write them off and have a fixation office, they don't even have a secretary, but they keep a very high police salary. These are huge, and more and more, and the situation is such that there — but also those who have an additional pension insurance — has shown something and also someone to retire, such as someone who has received the highest police salary for five years has never been seen in the office to which he has been assigned, has never been seen in the office to which he is assigned and has an additional pension insurance; among other things, there is a LDS saint in the city municipality, whose mayor is also in our kind. This should also be arranged in some way, by law, to regulate things by making people work, not by drawing the highest salaries and formally employed by the police, but by working for the LDS as saints. Costs of burying a police officer in Article 101. I think it is necessary to bind them especially to the consent of the relatives – you cannot prescribe to your family how a deceased policeman will be buried. I think the family needs to be tied up. Article 107, research activity. Yes, bravo, how you've all praised this matter! We have five universities or as far as we know, we have so many colleges, I don't know how to count them. Now we have a research activity in the police department. Yes, of course, if those police elephants are going to do that, fine, because they have many masters and PhDs. Research activity; should the state finance another or what? Yeah, why? And a research activity that studies its own organisation means researchers who study their own performance are usually not good researchers, but things need to be linked and opened up. I don't think that's necessary. Article 107, Higher Education Act. I hope there's anything else that the school minister will call if there is or if he's still doing his job. Article 107 is in total contravention of the Higher Education Act. Article 109 speaks of the possibility of establishing a higher education institution and Article 130 speaks of the need to do so. What does that mean? This means that the state intends, if I say so, to establish a new higher school, a new higher education institution and finance it. But according to the Higher Education Act, it's not possible because it has to be independent or part of the university. The new higher education institution, while we have it, will not mention the Faculty of Security Sciences, we even have a series of colleges in the country of Slovenia, the state will now finance another college because the gentlemen in the police wanted it and because in the Slovenian space, I don't know how many colleges they can't find someone who would be quite good for education. That's a bad excuse for me. 112. Article, course delivery, education goes into the work obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, no, it's the answer. 15 years ago, every teacher who wanted to make any progress had to ask her colleague for a replacement so that she could go to a seminar and then return to her colleague. The Lord of Men will also know who was in the Enlightenment. No, we are now so educated, it is an old police shirt, we count Short, we write a dispatch and we say: "Franciles, Joža, Miha from Maribor, Murska Sobota and so on go to Gotenica, they must have such shoes, such underwear, there are so many hours and they will be considered a work obligation, they will be paid." [[…]] No, no, things have to be set up and said, "such and such courses are necessary, there and there they are carried out, and you can attend them in your free time", as elsewhere. Article 128 In one year, they must pass the police mandate. Here I'm going to ask the Ministry how many people there are who don't have this course. I don't know why it would be different. In short, so much for my performance. At this stage of the marriage, we cannot support it for the reasons I've listed. I don't think it's possible to amend them either. But the law is coming, and I'm going to tell the position later, or that's just another story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The bill on the organisation and work of the police ensures better organisation and functioning of the police, clearly limits the competence between the ministry and the police, regulates specific labour relations within the police, the status and protection of the police officer, training, education and research activities. The new law also provides for greater autonomy of police administrations, greater involvement of the police in the functioning of the local community and better cooperation of the police with other entities. Thus, the police will be able to respond effectively to all security challenges, and in fact there are not enough of them these days. So far, or at the level of the goals and purposes of the law, we think this law is appropriate and, of course, we support it. However, we would like to draw attention to some of the controversial solutions introduced by the law. In fact, the applicant himself acknowledged that it was aware that the law partially interfered with certain specific provisions of the Public Servants Act and the Public Sector Wages Act and the Labour Relations Act. While we are aware in the Group of Members that the Law on Public Servants in Article 22 allows for different legal arrangements for certain categories of officials or public servants, if necessary because of the specific nature of their duties or for the exercise of specific duties and powers. We are also aware that in the existing system of awarding and evaluating work in public administration, given the nature of the profession itself, it is very difficult to compare and evaluate the profession of a police officer compared to other professional groups. We caution, however, that the labour relations and salaries of police officers are applied and taken into account the rules governing labour relations, health, pension and disability insurance and salaries of public servants, and collective agreements applicable to police personnel. And that the introduction of allowances to police salaries, regardless of the fact that they are entitled to them, at this point in time would be questionable or even controversial. According to a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, increased financial implications are foreseen in the value assessment of some EUR 3 million, namely the payment of the allowance to police officers participating in a special police unit, the increase in the security allowance, the introduction of a supplement for the special burdens of pilots, copilots, technicians, airmen and individual posts in a special unit, a management allowance, an allowance for the work of authorised officials in charge of criminal proceedings, and an allowance for commanders in charge of a special police unit. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to something that I have highlighted in my conversation with the former candidate for the Interior Minister, and which I have been reminded of by some members of the police union from the coastal communities, i.e. from the national mixed area, which also applies to Prekmurje. While all these supplements still do not take into account the current systematisation allowance, the bilingual allowance applicable to all public officials communicating with the public is not taken into account, whereas the systematisation provides for this allowance only for senior staff, not for police officers who are daily present and forced to communicate in both languages of the national mixed area. It may not be bad that when we think and also talk critically about supplements that, in our view, essentially prejudge the whole system of public wages, it might be more consistent to introduce or take into account those supplements that are already in principle envisaged by systematisation and not in practice applied. So I take this opportunity once again to convey to the Minister and the Ministry this expectation of police officers working in a national and linguistically mixed area. With regard to these supplements, it should be noted that the excuses that the supplements do not affect the public sector wage system or the collective agreement, since the allowances will only be paid in 2014, amounting to only EUR 3.5 million, and we do not find these arguments to be entirely convincing, since this is a derogation from the collective agreements in force and to shift the burden to the next term. In the Zares Group, it is recalled that only wage measures have been implemented so far with a view to alleviating the growth of the average gross public sector wage. However, the reduction in public sector employees by 1% in 2010-2012 has not been implemented. On the contrary. Employment has increased. The reduction in the number of employees was achieved only in the civil part of the state administration. The increase in the number of employees was influenced by the increase in the number of employees in the police force and in the Slovenian Army – 500 police officers and 300 soldiers – and in those entities in the public sector, which are mostly financed by non-disclosure funds for public service, such as nursing homes, pharmacies, student homes and kindergartens, and in non-governmental budgetary users, municipalities and public institutions, whose founders are municipalities. The overall financial impact of the reduction measure in the public sector in the period 2010-2012 is expected to reach EUR 240 million, but in 2010 expenditure increased by around EUR 56 million. In 2011, however, we note that the realisation in the wage segment will be achieved to a minimum of the same extent or even greater than in 2010, as the maximum shortfall in wage funds is shown by the Ministry of Home Affairs, namely the 11 million euro circus, and the Ministry of Public Education, the 60 million euro circus, which is a total of 71 million euros. In addition to the public finances situation mentioned above, the additions to police salaries seem somewhat controversial because they undermine the systemic approach to civil servants' salaries. Let us recall that this also violates the promises made by the Government in the social dialogue, since there will be no unilateral intervention in the salaries of public servants, and in particular because of the threat to the impact of dominoes in other parts of the public sector. This would mean a return to the Supplementary System, as it would surely follow the equivalent requirements of other trade unions in the public sector and the Government would have no argument to reject them. According to a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, the police would receive a permanence allowance of 0.5%; we had heard earlier that the Minister had corrected the data to be 0.33% of such an allowance. Otherwise, soldiers, customs officers and judicial officers are already receiving 0.33% of the basic salary. There is also a disputed positional allowance or management allowance. This is already being received by all civil servants today, and so far the government has tried to lower it and not the other way around, as it now proposes. According to a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, such a police allowance would become unconditional. It is also controversial to introduce an extra allowance for the work of a criminal body which does not exist in the public sector's pay system. This is also done by inspectors employed by the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and administrative units. It is correct to agree in the social dialogue to whom all, and whether or not, such an allowance, belongs. This issue must be resolved in a uniform manner for all the categories mentioned above, and it is not surprising that the proposal for a law other than police unions is opposed by all the remaining public sector unions that expect early negotiations, while unlike the government even the unions are aware that it is not possible to raise wages at the moment or wait for Slovenia to improve its economic situation. However, it seems a little strange to us that, with the findings that the additions to the police represent a non-systemic approach, the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, Miloš Pavlica, who has already announced that they should delete the articles on the demolition of the single payroll system by supplementing the government or coalitions, and that Finance Minister Franc Križanič also warns that customs officers must have the same conditions as police officers and that he has doubts that police allowances do not mean the collapse of the pay system. So we can see that even in the government, such doubts arise. Although we want to be correct with the police, and also automatic comparisons or levelling criteria for police officers and other categories for customs officers are not always correct. However, police are doing some specific, special work, the risk is objectively higher when organised crime is on the rise, and we are all aware of that. In the Group of Members, we will therefore support the proposal of the law, but provided that police allowances are excluded from the law in the future and that negotiations are launched to systematically address these issues, which should ensure in the long term what needs to be ensured for specific burdens. That's all I have to say for the end. In the Group of Members, we do not really object to a fair payment to the police for their work. We do not support the proposal, however, because we believe that in this case it is not the police, but the political issue. Previously, the sweets we attributed to the previous government were mentioned, and we would not like to repeat something similar, similar errors in this mandate. We would also like to draw attention to another disputed solution. The provisions of this bill are inappropriate and harmful in the work that deals with the organisation of educational activities within the police, both for the modern development of Slovenian police and for higher education activities. If the Minister of the Interior can instruct the content of the education programme in the field of police activity and graduates can receive a publicly recognised level and education course, then it would be good for someone in this country to issue an order to abolish institutions such as universities and independent higher education institutions that follow national quality standards in this area and should meet the high criteria for habilitating procedures. The provisions of the proposed law are contrary to the rules applicable to the organisation of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia and are contrary to all professional opinions. The law goes beyond the rules applicable to the academic community by the national quality assurance body in higher education. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for a law, but provided that all these inconsistencies are further addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Gregor Golobič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janez Fishich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Potch. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Almost to the end, first in line. I think there is a great deal of cynicism in the opening arguments to this law. There is talk of decentralisation and involvement in the local environment, and we know what happened a few months ago – there has been centralisation in Slovenian police, the abolition of three police administrations. Since 11 we now have 8 police administrations and the fact is that this will reduce security in the future. Of course not overnight, but in a year, two of us will be able to talk in these areas about reduced safety. This was also one of the ways to punish certain regions by this government, in particular the Koro region. And today, Korean police are driving to work in Celje or Ljubljana. For example, we have information that someone who drives from Murska Sobota to work in Ljubljana, or is employed in the Slovenian Army, receives a monthly allowance for transporting thousands of euros to work; this question was answered by Minister Ljubica Jelusic. And with such centralisation, costs are only increasing. With regard to Article 22, he took over the investigation by the NPU, spoke to his colleague Vinko Gorenak, which is decided by the Director. Of course, the question which cases the NPU will take, what the Director will decide – whether to follow what the Minister or Minister will say, is whether it will be a politically motivated case, or whether it will be a case of some resounding cases, so that the NPU staff can be photographed in front of the cameras, or whether they will only take over from the criminals what is more or less already happening, is to say, the cases that have been brought almost to the end by criminals. Article 51 also bothers me. Article 51 speaks of the appointment of the Director-General of the Slovenian Police. This Article states on the appointment of a special commission that this opinion of the Commission is final. The Commission shall be composed of three members: the President of the Official Council, the representative of the State Prosecutor's Council, and, thirdly, the recognised independent expert in the field of the work of the security authorities, the law or the protection of human rights appointed by the President of the Republic on a case-by-case basis. I do not know what the President of the Republic has to do with the appointment of the Director-General of Police, and I think this article is unconstitutional. If we look at the Constitution and 107. Article – the powers of the President of the Republic; it is indeed stated that the President of the Republic appoints state officials when provided by law. However, the Director-General of the Slovenian Police is not a state official. We can't find anywhere that this function would be defined as a functionary. If we look at the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, we see the decisively listed who is an official in Slovenia: Members of the National Assembly, members of the National Council, President of the Republic, Government, Ministers, etc. The Director-General of the Slovenian Police is in office and no more. And what does the President of the country have to do with this? So this article is basically unconstitutional. Apparently, he has some intention of strengthening the office of president of the state, some desire that is inherent in the presidential system, and that's a bad thing. And you can see by this law that those who wrote it thought they would be in this position forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franz Jursha. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, few colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have two laws before us, in which the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of former Minister Kresalova, divided the placement of the provisions that have so far been in the Police Act. And look, it took so much salad for this ministry to give political direction to the police right now. I think I hold in my hand more than a kilo of paper, with reasons, of course. This is totally unacceptable. I think that the general principle in this country is that laws should be transparent and clear. Here you find yourself in a completely different direction, and not even a temporary minister is able to shield himself from this, from his client boss, from the tendency. I'm asking, in case this salad comes in, will you give the police one month of collective leave to get to know what their duties and responsibilities are? They can't do it any other way. Because you don't want to write clear laws. Here you also write about the fact that there was a special police reorganisation group a year ago, and you named the project Libra. Someone told me that this is short-circuited, or syntagma, “liberal police breakdown”, anarchistically, the words match. Liberal decomposition for police politicization. If this is true of what the Liberal Democracy allows, even in such a horrifying way, to deal with an important state body, I think that all citizens must be concerned. Here many things have been said that are unacceptable, and the concept is unacceptable. The concept of both laws leads to police politicisation. The greater influence of the political minister, or the greater view, but above all, the view is not wrong, especially the influence on staffing and so on, and here you also clearly record what will be pursued, for example, in Article 22. It shall be decided by the Director. What reasonable suspicions will the NPU investigate, say, in 22. A member? This is a perfect coincidence with what the justice ministry, which is now also responsible for this ministry, did, through the prosecution, when it introduced and then even sold as an important novel plan of prosecution, whereby the Attorney General now has the right, whose things he will not pursue, what he will leave behind for the aging, when he will withdraw the prosecution, because it was very transparently written, how you imagined that you would protect the consecrated. Politically appropriate and dedicated. In addition, the Director of the National Investigation Office also has this discretionary right. It is a pity that there is no minister here for both departments to say whether it is already an order in this country, that they are protected and not all those who committed these crimes in banks will be persecuted, and the country will be driven into virtual bankruptcy because no one is persecuted. They're not after anyone, despite the fact that at the studio yesterday at 17th, Dr. Urban Vehovar, when he spoke of a terrible state in the country, of a complete decomposition, said that the last recapitalisation of the bank was a crime. And I agree with him, I could only add, even treason. The ones you brought in, and the managers like that, this country to bankruptcy, that's treason, there can be no other country. But don't do anything because the D.A. has a prosecution plan, and, of course, here's protection. But, look, even though we are now in the midst of developments that have surprised you before the elections, you might, if you were not a Democrat and concerned about this country, and how human and general rights and the rule of law will work in this country, be able to look forward to, "Now our minister will have the opportunity to direct what will be pursued and what will not be persecuted in the elections." It can't be like that, they can't let anyone in this country scratch their fingers so they can get one out of the marriage and chase the other out. Or, as they said last night, “it is now that one who steals or is hungry steals a piece of burek, is persecuted, and those who are hundreds of millions through banks, by tycoon takeovers and steals it, are not persecuted”. And this tendency is camouflaged in this marriage, but don't think of us as fools, so we don't see it far. Nevertheless, those who follow the draft laws that are written from this direction – the liberal anarchistic breakdown – “which we will use”. This is the same thought as it used to be: "occupation, this terrible fact we will use to revolution and to take power." It's the same thought. The worse, the better; the more we will do for ourselves, for our client and for our option. It is practically not worth talking about what has been very carefully analysed by Dr. Gorenak, which articles are unconstitutional, are contrary to this and what are the trends here. Of course, as already mentioned by my predecessors, I don't know, for the last time, we said that with the police chiefs, the President of the Republic is defiance of the Institute of the President of the Republic, he must keep his hands off the police. Nor do they foresee any democratic solution; we receive all other reports to the National Assembly, and this police report is not in the National Assembly or at least in the Internal Policy Committee – a competent home body. So it's all done that this case will run into the water or in the direction of the police state, police control and that. It's unacceptable. To that end, you predicted — or the minister predicted — that you would not give up — candy or pigeons on the roof in a few years. So transparent, shallow, political propaganda is low. Give the cops credit for their work, not call them pigeons on the roof. And I think there's a whole bunch of conceptual nonsense. Above all, I would ask you if you were still in office, if you were to be in office two years later, if you were to go in the opposite direction of development in the country from what you are saying in here and make eight laws and have eight kilograms of material in front of you? Stop making any sense, stand down, Mr Minister is not here to withdraw this law, which is a smoke screen so that this liberal breakdown of the state can work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Urh. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janko Weber, get ready, Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Given that we have today a package of police legislation, I would like in particular to see that, after the adoption of the bill on the organisation and work of the police and the bill, which will be the next item on the tasks and powers of the police, what has happened to us, the documents on the Patrio case in the drawer will be prevented for one year and nothing will happen in Slovenia. This I think should be one of the key starting points for whether, because of what has happened, legislation needs to be changed or whether this legislation is already good enough and this should not be done, so in this general debate only a reminder that I expect that in the future it will not be possible to act as we have seen it in Slovenia before. The law on police work and organisation itself has a very important chapter – education. We've heard a lot about this today. The fact is that some good practices, including secondary education, once in force, should be taken into account to a greater extent today and all together, as stated in this law, in order to create higher and higher police education. This is about the fact that tasks are becoming increasingly difficult and that we are faced with obligations that need to be seen and processed on different wages if we want police work to be successful. Above all, I think it is important in this law to strengthen cooperation with the local community, because the practice of this law has shown that strict separation between the police and the state and the local community has not, however, improved security in the individual environments; in fact, we have often discussed, and most often, how to organise the red tape and how to transfer a large part of the tasks carried out by the police to the local community. This has made an even greater difference between what is actually happening on the ground and who is supposed to solve those everyday problems, so that this law, at least after this content, as far as I can read these articles talking about cooperation, still slightly changes this relationship and brings the police closer to local communities. After this content, it seems to me that this is an extremely important shift and I think that it can really do a great deal to help organise both editorial services and police work in a much more coordinated manner than is possible after the law currently in force. The promotion of self-protection and self-organisation and assistance is also important in this law. It seems to me that in the current implementation of measures, particularly in the border area, in an area where we are also protecting the Schengen border, this work is often cursed with local-level developments in a way that is actually subject to the supervision of local people, and this brings a lot of discomfort, bringing a lot of mistrust among people living along the border, and during the work of police officers who perform it daily in these areas. So if we want to change this, we really need to promote self-protection and provide greater security self-organisation, which I think is possible only with good cooperation with the local population in these border areas. Given that even the number of inhabitants in the border areas is not such that police officers do not know almost everyone in each village, I do not think that there is really a need to implement a number of measures, either traffic control or car park control and the like, which happens in that month, two, three in areas that are of tourist interest. In fact, sometimes it is shocking to hear that a uniformed police officer walks into a camp and asks someone in the morning who woke up: “Excuse me, are you registered, do you have a document?” and so on. Such cases, I think, point above all to this — I do not think — are far from being well organized, especially in terms of cooperation with the local population, which is far more familiar with everything that is going on in that space, and certainly the first to detect any change or presence of someone who does not live permanently in that environment, or there are some activities that suggest that it is possible to suspect that it is a potential crime. So I expect that this law will truly establish better cooperation in this border area with the local population and do not carry out repression, which is legally equally prescribed, but this relationship is extremely important for improving the security and, finally, the effectiveness of police work. As regards the financing of veteran organisations, we must not ignore the fact that the North veteran organisation has had difficulties in establishing its organisation for many years. Last but not least, it's about people who worked in extremely important places. And it is also always about the fact that intertwining service obligations and what can be done in a veteran organisation is extremely strongly linked. Many data are such that it is not possible to have them, even in a later period when you are no longer in active service. And all of this shows that veteran organisations need to be further defined in this law that they also need to be taken care of in a way that provides them with funds from the state budget, and thus, not least, retains the presence of police officers in this country in the future or at a time when they are no longer active. The importance of veteran organisations in Slovenia is remarkable and I think we can do a lot in order to define this more clearly in the law, as agreed and possible in the current period. I would also point out that there are quite a few well-known locations in Slovenia that are designed to train police officers and develop all the tasks that the Ministry of the Interior needs in order to be able to successfully carry out its tasks mainly in the home environment, as it is intended to do so, and that it can also successfully exchange and upgrade these experiences with other countries. One of the important sites I would like to highlight is Gotenica in Kočevska, which has its long tradition of creating a Slovenian state and is still carrying out an extremely important task for the ministry and for the Slovenian state. However, certain projects prepared for the development of this area have been stalled. However, they were intended primarily to train special units, which we still need in all the more difficult situations that apply both at home and in the world. By investing in the development of training and investing in the development of the centres that we have in order to truly create an effective workforce working in the field of internal security, investment is also essential. I would like to see the real future of this extremely important project in this environment, which not only enables the successful development and training of police activities, but also enables jobs in this local environment. It also allows for extremely good cooperation with the local community, which has dedicated a very large area to allow these activities to be carried out smoothly. We rarely encounter environments that are friendly to these activities and want this cooperation, but, of course, it is necessary to react in particular in a way that also investments and development take place in some of the desired and expected dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Miran Györek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u28	Your Honor! I believe, and I understand Mr Gorenak, that he would like to arrange the police in his image, and probably his stakes after a time when, so it appears now, the political bosses have ordered that a dispatcher be pawned – so now I read the last days that it is more obvious – and that nothing is being investigated for a year. I believe this is the image that you have been given and we would like to continue, or better yet, in this image you have arranged the whole arrangement. For me, it is important to compare the introduction of this law, showing how this is regulated by countries with high levels of security, investigated crime and also the confidence of citizens and citizens in the law enforcement authorities or the police we are talking about. I believe that the times in which policy has produced many things, which should be sanctioned. Remember: from Depala village to, I don't know, some other things forward, but it's important that you have an extended hand both in the police and in the prosecution, from which people pass through; little politics, little law enforcement, little prosecution, little going, little going, little going, no going, no what, but of course in the meantime they run for a certain political option in the elections. This is of course all possible and I believe in your sincere desires to think so and that we would like these times to continue or to return to one part of the extremely inappropriate conduct. To talk about having three kilos of some material here without properly saying that it is my only law that I have had on the table in recent years, which would be attached to the implementing act, from the regulations to the regulations and everything else, which must be an integral part to see how an area should be regulated. But this is repulsive for you, it is not right for you to tell Members and Members, the public, etc., or look at what you are waving. Only 120 pages is the text of the law with explanations, which in fact does not matter whether it is a little more or a little less, it is important that everything that needs to be regulated in some area is arranged in a manner such as the established constitution, needs, international comparison, and of course it must also be properly reasoned, otherwise quality things cannot be done. [[…]] Maybe it's a fool to wave papers and I don't know what. Maybe it's to talk about that banks have given me no idea how many loans, poorly protected loans, etc., but of course you have to tell me when you're talking about it, when. To talk about these loans requiring one recapitalisation, and the other recapitalisation is likely to be necessary again in one bank, etc., is, of course, irresponsible and unfair. I'm not gonna say it's a lie, but when were the tycoon loans given? For the period 2008-2012? No, no. And neither was any dispute triggered, because the connection I spoke about in the introduction worked again; because these are our people — so read: yours — you can't, of course, or you can't persecute them. No, this has to be done and it is therefore the law here that things are done according to the profession, the regulations, and, of course, to the greatest extent, or if things are to be excluded to the extreme in political intercession, negotiation and so on. That is why this rhetoric, which makes clear to this law what has been done as an example in mandates, and from the examples I do not want to repeat all cases now, but I read every day the newspapers, read every day the website, and find out who has done something, done what, and for what purpose – not to use the country or anything, but the opposite. [[…]] Therefore, I firmly believe that everything must be done to make the legislation and the other rules necessary to make it possible for those implementing this law to have the feeling that they have an appropriately regulated area, a job and everything that is judged by them, that they have the right to have the material conditions provided and that they are protected against any negative consequences, and so on. Therefore, as I have already said in the introduction, citizens and citizens must be told that this is done in order for the police to be on their side, on the side of ensuring security, on the side of detecting crime and all the other aspects that are, unfortunately, all too present. That the police and the authorities, or all those who have contacts with people and so on, are helping citizens. It is really hard for me to hear that people feel that Slovenia is turning into a repressive country. Unresponsible speech and preservation from this National Assembly also contribute greatly. There are also many cases where people do not understand why, even in some areas, they say, the use of the resources available to the police is stricter and even more shocking. Yesterday, before yesterday, gentlemen from the border area around Brežice explained to me, “Happy is the one who has a job” – they are more rare – “and who is not in any process, and that twice or three times a day the police do not stop him, and that is justified or just because they say they are “living”. That's wrong. If that's the case, it's wrong. And, of course, through the arrangements that we are currently considering, we need to put an end to this, in order to really sanction what needs to be sanctioned, to give people a sense of security and that police officers can also help them, but not to feel that some people are deliberately being bullied or anything. What they told me wasn't the only case. There are many from different parts of Slovenia that there will be no mistake, not just from that end. And I believe in the good faith that this law will also contribute to the proper organisation of the police, to have the appropriate powers and, on the other hand, to carry out all the tasks properly, so I cannot accept flat-rate, irresponsible explanations here, which in this law do not have a basis in these annexes. Therefore, as has already been said in the introduction, I support that we make progress. The broad debate, the long-term preparations, showed that things needed to be complemented. The fact that it somehow got stuck in the discussion, whether the supplements are real or not and so on, is a constant discussion. I was never able to adopt Virant's law and prevent the former Minister of Defence Erjavc from giving pilots, highly qualified professional staff among public servants. And let's say, in two state authorities, well, one is a state-owned company, say in Adria – pilots times 5, in the Slovenian Army a one-time amount, not to hold me to the word whether it is the right relationship, but so on both of them are flying in organizations and companies that are owned by Slovenia, and the pilot is a pilot. And because it is in the public service, it is with the public authority at work, it has to be substantially less paid for this than if it goes to a state-owned company or to a state-owned company. I don't understand this, and this weight on one hoof was obviously wrong, but not now that we brought yes, of course it is, of course it is wrong that the pilot or someone who is in another job to say already the pilot and the chauffeur, here, because Mr. Bezjak on the chauffeur you meet, can't be in my belief in the same pay grade with, here, anyway, I'm sure. [[…]] [[…]] Therefore, I believe that these misunderstandings, which have been in this award, even in difficult works and in additions to the police, will not jeopardize the entire law because another social group, which is also to be treated – I do not know what needs to be done with the customs, but probably something that has been said here today – but this needs to be regulated, not shown because they do not agree, but now we must not settle any matters. It is necessary to take a closer look at the matter, and it seems to me that marriage can be supported. But if any of the things that come in here are not accepted by some assessment that it is benevolentness, that every thing sees conspiracy and I don't know what, then it can't be some message that this country is concerned and that we want this country all good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, he asked for the floor of Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting on my behalf and on behalf of the government! I would like to respond to some of the concerns or dilemmas that have been raised in the presentation of views or in the debate on the draft law before us. There's been a lot of talk about the add-ons. The most important information that the Minister has already said is that a change is being prepared with regard to the sustainability allowance, which will determine this supplement to the level that is normal in the public sector, and therefore we cannot talk about the fact that this law in any way undermines the public sector's wage system. However, as regards the additives to be heard, they were intended only for certain layers, and especially for the higher ones in the police, it is necessary to say that the nature of these additives is contrary. These are additives related to work in the field, such as additives related to classical police work related to higher risk, exposure to greater risks such as prevention or protection of public order and peace in the event of riots, major disasters and the like. A similar supplement is also introduced for criminal authorities or police officers acting as a criminal authority and having a higher level of education, i.e. VII. the level of education, and therefore their work needs to be properly evaluated. The allowances for assistant commanders are a reflection of the fact that these people are always, and therefore not only at the time of the commander’s absence or absence, they are always doing work that represents the management of individual areas of work. As a result, an addition reflecting this nature of their work is also proposed. With regard to the appointment of the Director-General of Police, partly the Director of the National Investigation Office. It must be said that the police and the Director-General of the Police are, of course, a special or organ which, by its nature and responsibility, is special and specific. It combines the characteristics of several structures, which are, in part, a combination of units or components that are characteristic of military structures, some of the components that are characteristic of intelligence structures, and some of the components that are characteristic of judicial structures. And, of course, the head of such a service or police, which the Director-General of Police is, brings together all these components and, therefore, the procedure for appointing this Director is also specific. It is important to say, however, that the appointment process has in fact remained unchanged since the last amendment already adopted by this National Assembly. At that time, it was also said that, by means of such an arrangement, when the decisive word is left to the committee composed of a multi-disciplinary body, if I say so, from the representative of the State Prosecutor's Council, from the representative of the official council and from the representative of the profession appointed by the President of the Republic, that, of course, the role such a body has is trying to eliminate, to the greatest extent possible, the daily political interest and the pressure to form and run, or put, such a police leader who will be able to combine all these characteristics. And also through this selection procedure, which has been partially amended in this part to introduce a public tender, and is transparent to the extent that it will, of course, give rise to the trust and justify the powers that this person has. With regard to the mandate imposed on police station commanders and police directors, it must be said that the survey carried out in the police department also shows that this solution is welcomed in practice. However, it is true that this arrangement will, on the one hand, temporarily restrict this function, but on the other hand, it means that during this period this function is better protected than it has been so far. This means that the officials who perform this function, or the commanders and directors of police administrations, will feel more secure at this time and will be able to take full responsibility for their work. It is also important to say that he who appoints the Director of Police is the Director-General of Police. This is important because I have devoted a considerable amount of time earlier to re-enlightening the procedure under which the Director-General of Police has been elected, and this procedure has been removed from the political selection process and, as a result, the appointment of directors of police administrations is less political. The mandate, which I mention, will protect police directors, i.e. police directors, in the sense that they will be able to perform their tasks in a sovereign manner during the duration of this mandate, without fear of being subjected to any pressure from their superiors, who can be recalled and replaced in the current system without any particularly serious reasons and without particularly complicated procedures. This changes with this proposal of the law. With regard to the National Investigation Office, it is only necessary to say that this is part of the criminal police and therefore the Director of the National Investigation Office is also subordinated to the Director of the Criminal Police. It is true, however, that the National Investigation Office is operationally autonomous, which means that it is independent in the performance of its professional tasks. The direction of the police or the information or reporting of the Director-General of Police to the Minister was mentioned. Let me say that these are, in particular, events and not operational information that these authorities would be required to provide to the Minister. This is taken into account in practice, and this is also being done in practice, and it is not therefore the need for the Minister to be informed of the operational information needed for police work, but rather to be informed of those events which, by their nature, are of a duty to know. The Minister's orientation is, of course, strictly limited and applies only to the moment when the act is notified to the Attorney General. In accordance with the legislation governing criminal proceedings, as well as under-law acts, the State Prosecutor shall be informed of all major offences without delay. So the time at which it is possible to talk about this obligation of information is extremely limited. With regard to the conditions for the employment of police officers, where it has been pointed out that the conditions in the law should already be such as to require higher vocational education and that secondary education is not something which would be in line with the guidelines adopted by Europe in this direction or in the field of police, let me say that the law provides that the average level is the minimum rate required for police employment. Well, that's a minimum, that doesn't mean you can't enter the police with a higher education. It is even more important that a project is under way within the police to re-education candidates for police officers at a higher level of education. This means raising the level of education within the police because the police are aware that the quality of police work is also linked to their expertise, which is partly linked to the formal level of education. A transitional period is envisaged to introduce these innovations, which is in itself understandable and we have also heard in the debate that such introduction cannot be coordinated or implemented without transitional periods. With regard to salaries, it is only possible that the Government for the coordination of the entire C3 payroll group, including police officers, has set up a special working group to examine or propose improvements to existing anomalies within the public sector. With regard to bilingual allowances or the number of police officers to work in bilingual police departments or police stations, I can say that one of the sentence requirements was also linked to bilingualism. At that time, the Minister of State implemented this strike request by amending the act on internal organisation and systematisation of police posts and titles, thus transforming 47 police officers on the Koper and Murska Sobota police administrations, who were not systematized as bilingual, into bilingual ones and thus followed this requirement to ensure that for both minorities a sufficient number of police officers who would speak both languages will be adequately rewarded. Well, if I finish. There are changes introduced by the law in order to build a police system that will be more stable, with greater transparency in determining the leadership of individual police units, allowing greater stability and confidence, both to the public and to the police, which will all help to make the work of police more qualitative in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor to prepare for Franco Juri, please. Mr. Guido Kres is hereby dismissed. There's no Franc Yuri. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much. It's really interesting what an interest this law is in the National Assembly. I will respond to some of the statements I have just heard in the debate, although this is more for a magnetogram than for something to really happen. The cadet, who has been told to me that this is something terrible that has been abolished; those who claim to look again at when European countries have abolished it, and will find that Slovenia was the last one. Below, someone, I think Mr Weber, talked about bringing the local community closer, then there was a talk about security self-organisation. Yeah, well, let's do something else. Maybe this marriage would also talk about a cop being able to live 110 years or something. For God's sake, read the law! So someone's saying something to make him like you, to make him look smart, maybe even, but it's not a joke, the law doesn't say anything about that. Approaching the local community, yeah? When we wrote this basic law in 1998, we provided for certain solutions that were immediately clear that they were not constitutional and that it was not possible to prescribe a way of cooperating with the local community as an obligation, but only as an optional form, since they were independent entities after the constitution. So nothing about getting closer is said by this law, nothing because it sums up an old article. Because security self-organizing, cool, that's what it says in theory, and I'm also learning about it in college, but there's nothing in the law about it. There's nothing about it in the marriage. As far as funding is concerned, it has also been said how good and smart it is to be financed. No, it's not true, as long as Mr Molan equates post-war killings with arms trafficking, it's a policy for me, it's not true. It is true, however, that Mr Anderlich, what you have said, I may have done to you, you may think, you are without reminders, it is true, but it has nothing to do with the things you have just said; international comparisons: – and also to the Secretary of State – there are no commanders in Europe. Nowhere in Europe. Why are you giving them a mandate? I suspect it's because you want to replace them. Time's up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I have plenty of time, but I don't think I'm gonna spend it. First, I must respond to the implementation of Mr Gorenak when he represented the position of his Group of Members immediately behind me. At that time, some of us were tempted to read the views of the parliamentary groups. I don't know what's wrong with that. I doubt that the Rules of Procedure have been amended and that I did not know; after all, I am a member of this business commission. Maybe it wasn't flying to me, but personally I thought it was flying me because Dr. Gorenak was talking to me and he warned me about it. He also pointed out that positions were being drawn up by professional colleagues. I think that's why we have expert colleagues to help you with these positions and that it's nothing wrong, especially if they get to know what they're doing. I hope we've cleared this up and that it doesn't fly to not knowing for the second time whether I can even hold the paper in my hand, whether I have to use the iPod or something, or I can think of everything. [[…]] So little for a joke, but it's the first thing. Secondly, when this law is being considered, I must say that a number of police officers and police officers have also turned to me, both now and formerly, and we have been reviewing this law together and the next one we will talk about in a few minutes. Basically, these drafts were praised. Of course, a number of police officers hope that what has also been criticized before me will come back, that nothing is written about it, but that cooperation with the local community and ultimately work with citizens, a little more, and that many of the police will return to the field from these offices. I hope that if it is not already in law, but at least, I hope, it will be so defined in the sub-laws that it will be possible. I would just like to mention one more thing, as a positive one, I think in this law, namely: the bill also sets out measures to protect employees in the form of legal, psychological and social assistance, here I am mainly talking about legal assistance to police officers who are in certain procedures. Here is also added to the draft law: police officers who have already left the police and have found themselves because of their former work in certain procedures, and I think that many welcome this. Why, then, if you were working somewhere and you were no longer in the police force so that you could cover all these expenses and not have adequate legal assistance? In short, on this basis, I can say again on my behalf, but I said earlier on behalf of the Group of Members that we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? Not yet. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I see a desire for a debate, and therefore I give you time to report to those who wish to do so. Four debaters, each with five minutes. The first one is Mr. Anton Anderlich. He's not going to discuss it? Second Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Since colleague Anderlič, without mentioning my name before, has been politicizing my performance, of course I will also respond somewhat to his performance, which, without reservation, is what is done with these projects, with these laws – which says that the law has only 120 pages. [[…]] He thinks it's very small, that it's half the law, the previous, the surrogate law. And the other 120 are 240 pages, and with this material, future police officers should get to know each other well, and I think those who do so should do so on the basis of the law. Once again, will you provide them with one month of collective leave for all police officers? At that time, of course, if you were to rule, anarchy again, you would probably give instructions, because it is worth stealing here and there and doing something because the police are on collective leave, and so on. I'm being a little ironic or exaggerating, but you actually sound like this, and here we should advocate transparency and clarity of legislation. And, of course, this is harmonised, like the supreme constitution and international comparisons – Larry Fari. More and more, even on the basis of your performance, where, of course, you had to defend your president, who resigned your seat of office and see, I constantly believe that that Libra is indeed a shortening stone liberal decay, anarchistic, which will allow for politicisation in all areas. [[…]] And, of course, colleague Anderlič said that I mentioned Dr. Vehovar, who said that these recapitalisations were a crime, he responded that there was no order in the banks, that it was impossible to prosecute that they had been loans before, even though we know who was the supervisor of the banks. And of course there's nothing wrong with him, there was no way. His minister, the President and the Justice Minister had no effect on any proceedings being initiated because they were LDS, and, of course, you should not pursue them there, as he said. And look, it is no wonder that we adopted yesterday, if there is such anarchy in this area, that we adopted a European directive on the Committee on European Affairs yesterday. But it is terrifying what our government agrees with – that the management of a credit institution or an investment company as a whole must have adequate knowledge, skills and experience to understand the activity of a credit institution. Management must have adequate knowledge that it can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u37	Mr Jerovšek, can I remind you what the agenda is?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u38	Yes, yes, but Mr. Anderlich talked about it. Mr. Anderlich talked about this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u39	What's your word on that?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u40	Look, I find it hard that someone claims that so far in ministerial and similar departments has acted in the sense of "all for the protection of the state". He didn't! They were dedicated people and they're in this country. However, if we find only now that the management of an investment company must have adequate knowledge that it understands the activity of a credit institution, then it is clear. This is like saying that the principal needs to know the teaching process so that he can be the principal. But this will only apply in banks from now on. So in this area, we're going back to a kind of decomposition, camouflage, more pre-normity and worse functioning of the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the country, the Republic of Slovenia, we still have – we still have! – a marriage called the Police Act. And this marriage has been well written, probably in the middle of those 11 years, which I've been following, even several times corrected, but it's the law. First, what I personally object to, and also my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, is why the division of one law into two. Secondly, we're back there when I heard from certain colleagues who I'm not going to name as some of us ignorant. And in doing so they included the legal and legal work that is ours and the best that is ignorant. She made it clear that marriage must be general, clear, and fickle. Details, literally, are governed by a sub-law or regulated by a sub-law, plurality. What are we doing? We do the opposite, the regulations of the underlaws, the evidentiary and proven, are put into law. And then we claim we have a state of law. If we were to join the law in law, instead of making the law clear, short, stalwart and then lay down the content of the law. I'm subject to one law, the Police Act, and I'm also going to talk about the contents that are in both laws, in this now and in that a little later. Look, there's a very thin cut between democracy and anarchy, we all know that, and many have already said that. A very thin cut is also between the honest police and the police state. The Slovenian National Party is convinced that at least ordinary police know that their first task is to help people, prevent illegal matters, raise people in legal order and finally punish them. But all that has happened and what is happening through the two laws we are talking about is too much interference with human rights for the Slovenian National Party. It says that this law, followed by the system’s powers of police officers, is already clear in this law that exists. And what to say at the end is that the list of both laws is literally purely bureaucratic, according to the obstetrically worded "cancial" work. Terrance, no one asked a police officer anything. Those bureaucrats, those 100, 200, 300 that he did, they wrote those laws and they invented two, and they pushed the submarital acts into the marriage, which is, work for work. That's not right. Nice or ugly, that's not right. I will also mention articles 22 and 23 of the law, which we will talk about, because there is still one law for me, and then I will be silent or not. Because this is a crime that is happening, I am talking about the law on tasks and powers, about the changed identity and ownership of funds. Great. Even the mob can't do that. Now we're going to let the cops instead of the x person y, that she's going to lie, who she is, who she's going to be, but Stalin didn't do that, hello, Stalin didn't do that! [[...]] Where do you live? Stalin didn't do it, please! It doesn't matter because one marriage applies to me and one marriage applies to me, and I'll tell you again in another marriage! I.D.'d. Who's got to hide from someone? If he's a cop, he's a cop, and I respect him in his uniform and his words and his powers! It doesn't matter. One law does. But I'll tell you again. Yeah, of course, you're laughing, the 10 that you're here, laughing, and the others laughing anyway, which is the most embarrassing thing. [[...]] When a man works, he sits in an office, and there's no one, but he's late, and here you are being punished. I think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much. There's really going to be a lot to say in this room. I'll take it in a row. At first, we saw a time-sharing trick called “how to prevent me or anyone else from saying anything”. Mr Anderlič first applied, and in two seconds he said, “I quit” and thus took me 5 minutes. [[advertising from the hall]] Then you'll tell me. Legal certainty, absolutely, what Mr Kolarič said, I don't mind, but it's already in the existing law. It's already in the existing law, but it's the right thing to do. Returning to the field; yes, I would like to, but this law will not bring it. In Slovenia, if I may say so, about 2 000 200 police officers and 9 000 employees are employed. There are 3,000 of them at the border — about. So only the law won't bring it, but I'm afraid of how they'd do it. Greater stability of the police – don't joke, Mr Anderlich. What greater stability this law will bring, since there is no possibility. The Secretary of State said secondary education was a minimum. Yeah, but I want you to write that the higher the minimum, that's what I want. Because in Ljubljana, as I told you, I don't know, about a thousand 300 police officers, you'll find 500 who already have it, let's pay them what they already have. That's right, so I'm saying that that article has to be entered, that it's a higher minimum, and then it's the previous periods. But for those who are older, admit it. Because if we admit to the Director-General that he has police powers, then we can also grant the same status to police officers who have been on the road for 15, 20 years. With bank credits, as Mr Anderlich was talking about, this law has nothing to do with, you've probably looked at the wrong law. International comparisons; Mr. Secretary of State, tell me where you wrote in the law – I read it twice, and now I went to see again where the law says – that in Europe, which country has a police commander and a police director or their comparable positions, where does the law say? No European country has this, none. Yeah, well, if you don't, then you can tell me what she's got, and you can tell me when we're alone, without cameras. But this is not what any European country has, and you are introducing a system that means the mandate of the commander and the director of the police administration. No, there is no country, and you are introducing this in Slovenia and you say this is modern. Then tell the truth, "we will replace them because we thought we would be in power for another year." Say that. That's right. But don't say it's nice, etc. if it's not in Europe. Political chiefs of Oziroma, Mr Anderlič, spoke on the issue of how it is possible for a dispatcher to be pawned if political bosses order. [[…]] Mr. Anderlich, follow the National Assembly. Look, you've got 3,000 euros to pay, like I do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u45	[[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Two thousand 400. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u46	Then you lied a little, I think you have more, but let's just leave it. It is right to monitor the work of the National Assembly. Witnesses on Mrs Irgle's committee, these are criminals, have clearly said, "No one has ordered us anything." And then don't talk about influencing those dispatches. No one, that's what the criminals said, because it's nothing special, but maybe you weren't following, and it would be right to keep track of the pay. As far as the financing of the North is concerned. Yeah, it's fine and fine if the law says they're non-political organizations. While Mr Molan, as former Secretary of State, says that post-war killings are the same as the arms trade 1991-1994, this is something incomprehensible, because, for the first time, these are political statements, the second time, the post-war killings have not yet been investigated and the criminals who ordered them are still walking in Slovenia, the weapons 1991-1994 or when it has already been investigated, and Mrs Brezigar has not rejected the complaint that you will not forget, but another prosecutor. Look what it says below. In short, as far as this marriage is concerned, there is no support for us at this stage. I don't know if it could be amended, but I doubt the coalition will even accept any amendments given that it makes amendments like pancakes. But if your word is true, this marriage will not be adopted, because we will go to the elections first, or if your word does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 23 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 9. 2011 in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police in the first defence. The bill was proposed by the government to the assembly. On this proposal, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. For further explanation, I give the floor on behalf of the Government to Mr Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, welcome! Allow me to brief you on the content of the new law on police duties and powers. The purpose of the bill is to draw up a modern, European comparable and transparent law that will systematically and comprehensively regulate and set out police tasks, general police powers and enforcement resources and regulate complaints against the police. Solutions are drawn up on the basis of comparative reviews and past experience and findings aimed at drafting a regulation expressing all the necessary care in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms while at the same time meeting the needs of the police organisation to ensure more effective community security. The law therefore follows the objective of protecting freedom and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and defines the work of the police based on operational autonomy and the rule of law. The objectives of the proposal are to ensure the following: a more transparent and clearer regulation of the broader subject matter, a transfer of a substantial part of the content of the sub-laws to the law, thereby ensuring greater transparency and integrity of the content at the legal level, thereby greater legal certainty, ensuring the systematic, transparency and clarity of police powers and ensuring that the user is given a friendly regulation, thereby increasing the applicability of the regulation and providing clear and unambiguous information, both for citizens and for police. The bill provides a clearer and more transparent regulation by introducing basic concepts in the handling of police powers. For the first time, it defines the police procedure, lays down clearer conditions for the application of the general mandate of the police, for the first time defines the general principles for the performance of police tasks, for the purpose of carrying out police duties abroad, and for the purpose of regulating the operations of foreign police officers in the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time regulates the performance of police tasks outside the working time, and for one place defines general police powers and the use of coercive means. In order to ensure human rights and fundamental freedoms, a number of guardians have been created: as the proposal of the law defines more precisely the collection of notices and the recruitment of persons, it regulates more precisely the identification, detailed regulation of the security review and review of the person, the abolition of the police authority of the "prevention", the separation between constitutional categories of restrictions on movement and deprivation of liberty, the rights of individuals who have been restricted or deprived of space, the time allowed to intervene in human freedom – while at the same time the time of the police procedure is included in the detention period – it clearly regulates procedures with vulnerable groups, in some cases reduces the time allowed to detain a person, and at the legal level regulates the fundamental rights of detained persons in police procedures. The law also provides more clearly for the use of coercive means and sets a distinction between individual means. It redefines the use of these anti-crowd funds and the method of use itself and tightens the conditions for the use of firearms as the worst police force. With certain police powers, the solutions seek to increase the effectiveness of the police in different areas of work. The bill sets out more effectively the police's measures regarding the prohibition of approximations imposed by domestic violence, and introduces new police powers to prevent violence at sports events. regulate the protection of certain persons and facilities and define more precisely the collection and transmission of data. Better supervision in the field of police powers is ensured, as their application is subject to more detailed and legal reporting and supervision. In addition, a procedure for handling complaints against the work of police officers is laid down in more detail. In the issue of sub-legislative rules, the law introduces a novelty with regard to the issuance of rules for the exercise of police powers, since it expressly stipulates that the Minister issues this regulation after obtaining the previous opinion of the Ombudsman. The latter represents a higher standard of human rights and freedoms, particularly in the part where police, with their powers, intervene in human rights and freedoms. The draft law on police tasks and powers was also discussed at its meeting by the Section for Police Law and Police Powers and the proposed text was also endorsed or given a positive opinion. I believe that the solutions to the new law are appropriate, so I propose, honourable Members and Members, that the proposal of the law be supported as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh, who is not in the Chamber, is to speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u50	Good-bye, everybody! As I have already said in my explanation for the previous law, police legislation is divided into two parts with a proposal for a law. The proposal explains that there is a need for division of rules in that one determines the organisation of the police and the other to carry out tasks and procedures. In short, it is that one and the other laws will be written in detail, which usually brings nothing good to the one to whom the law is intended, but more, obligations and uncertainties, and on the other hand all possible rights to the one who is in the process, which has already been clearly spelled out in the previous law. I don't know who it's written on the skin. I'm sure the police don't. The purpose of the law, which protects freedom and respect for human rights and freedoms, and defines the work of the police, which must be based on the rule of law, is repeated throughout the reading of the law in the explanatory statement. But I think it's been so far. You get the feeling everything's been wrong so far. The measure prohibiting participation in sports events is well-intentioned, and it is unlikely that it will have the right effect. Not particularly when the Ombudsman is involved, as mentioned in article 33 of the proposed law, that the Minister issue a rule on police powers only in the opinion of the Ombudsman. The aim is to raise the level of human rights and the Ombudsman's influence on police powers. The only thing missing here is to ask some other mob boss and Viola, if they agree to the operationalization of police powers, the matter is complete. Laws and regulations should be written by practitioners if we want the law to be good and practical. In achieving the objective of the draft law on police powers, you have stated that it is necessary to avoid the provisions on the use of individual coercive measures contained in the sub-laws, thereby ensuring an even higher level of legal and personal security of people and their property, and to bring the law into line with other system laws such as the Penal Code and probably the CAP and not only the Secret Data Act. Probably all of this does not go hand in hand with the law under way — the seizure of assets obtained in an illegal way. The establishment of police powers, such as: the use of coercive means, personal checks, inspections of things and the visible part of the vehicle, is an integral part of police work, which, as I know, has so far not been contrary to the law and has been carried out in accordance with the rules. The use of the kindest coercive measure at a given time was always logical. This is not to say that later analyses of procedures that usually last for a few days do not excuse a policeman who has made a decision at the moment, even for his own safety, to justify the reaction of bureaucrats who decide on it. The law is extensive. I think he's too complicated. Too many details, which are usually still unclear, which will cause more confusion, because, as we know, marriage must be brief, clear and useful in practice. This is not what this bill provides. But it's also unnecessary because we already have a marriage. And a few more concerns about some who were talking about what I know, corrupt cops. Cops criticize those who break the laws. I'm sure alcoholics and drug addicts don't feel good when they're in traffic and they're under one or the other when a cop stops him. Because of such and similar problems, police have the most problems, since they always claim human rights and have nothing to do with the process. We're not going to support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u52	Your Honor! This law, too, is considered to be sensitive, with serious consideration. After all, it is to regulate the powers, powers of repressive authorities, which must primarily be in the function of protecting human dignity, property and things which, of course, we regard as human rights and security, as we might call it. It is hard to believe that the police have not had sufficient authority right now, because if so, they should have changed it long ago so that they really have it in accordance with the Constitution, laws and other regulations governing their powers, so that they can ensure public order and peace, the security of citizens and citizens, and of course the security of property, property, etc. To participate in all procedures for natural disasters and similar matters, they must also have appropriate powers. That is why we see no problem in the Liberal Democracy, on the contrary, we feel the need for these things to be settled, and I will say, again in a comparable way in countries where they have a high level of security and open crime and all the other things that go with it. And another way to compare yourself in more successful countries, better regulated, because they have more friendly cops, maybe it would be nice if we could have some berry-like ones with us, walk without guns, and work among people also preventively, help them and similar things. [[…]] But we obviously have this play, including those who write these laws and regulate this area, including those who were cadets and the like, would have had a hard time handling this kind of police force around us, I guess. But maybe some other time, it would be useful. At least I think it's much more helpful if you ever give any advice, if you give any warning, than you say in advance: "Well, I've been waiting for you. I was just waiting for you." This is just a thing that I reiterate among people that these powers must also be proportionate to what is involved in the protection of both citizens and citizens as well as of the police themselves and those involved in these procedures, and that people do not feel that it is primarily about powers when these coercive means need to be used. [[…]] I think it's still necessary to make use of the resources when it's absolutely necessary. There was also much discussion about the order of sports events and the powers associated with this area. Right now, there's an outstanding case where police are suing the organizers for the lack of protection and damage they've been doing. I am firmly convinced that when police officers have sufficient information on violators, they can and must have enough information about those who are in one way or another a constant factor in violating public order and peace to identify them and to remove them accordingly. Even when I watched, for an hour, an hour and a half, the demonstrations at that time before the National Assembly and the throwing of dice into Parliament, I was very positively surprised. On the terrace, there in front of Maximarket, because it was not interesting, but it was a very instructive and unusual phenomenon in Slovenia, but when the police arrived, of course, in a civilian, when someone threw a stone five minutes ago, or a cube into this parliament, and they came and knocked on his shoulder and took him away. In short, and the powers and professional organisation were already such, or under this existing arrangement, that violators may be removed in due time or at least when they cause a matter contrary to the law or rules of public order. I am not sure that in Slovenia we have the appearance of vandalism at sports events to the extent or in the way that it was in the past in Great Britain, where procedures against a whole range of rioters, fans, not only in Great Britain, but also elsewhere in European countries where riots have been committed. I think it's a necessary measure in this case, but I don't want to see it go too far. Even as I follow up, let's say the last example from the spring, as they accompany the Jesenic fans from the railway station in Halo Tivola, is actually already so done that if they detect signs that there may be unrest, they can detect and prevent this until a certain time. But, as we say, we will support these proposals, because we believe that if something is lacking or that these powers are not really sufficient to be properly regulated, of course, with strict respect for human rights and things that officials must also limit in the use of the coercive means available to them. It seems to me that the part that talks about complaints or proceedings against police officers who are involved in offences or potentially in misdemeanors is well arranged, that this is done autonomously and that it does not interfere with those in these matters that do not belong there in order to regulate them. I therefore believe that this law will be more unanimously supported than the first one, although I think it is appropriate that both of them are supported in the package, at least in this first reading. And if they do, we'll cooperate and study them in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u54	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In particular, in view of one of the most important principles – legality – it is important that they are systematically and comprehensively regulated in one place and specific police tasks and all general police powers, including enforcement. Most police powers and police tasks are transferred to the law under the law. In this way, their scope will be substantially reduced. This means that the individual standards laid down in the rules are introduced into the law itself because of the importance and depth of interference of individual police powers with individual freedoms and rights. The law regulates police tasks and so-called security police powers, these are the ones with which the police prevent dangers. It is the fundamental source of police procedures and the most important police rule for the preventive and repressive functioning of the police. The proposal for a law comprehensively covers the chapters on the supervision of the exercise of police powers and on the appeal procedure, which we consider to be particularly important. The bill provides for clearer and more transparent regulation by introducing basic concepts in the handling of police powers, for the first time defining the police procedure, setting clear conditions for the application of general powers to the police, for the first time defining general principles for the performance of police tasks, for the first time determining the performance of police tasks abroad and regulating the operation of foreign police officers in the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time regulating the performance of police tasks outside the working time, and for one place defining all general police powers and the use of coercive resources. In order to ensure human rights and fundamental freedoms, a number of safeguards have been created by means of which the law specifies the collection of notices and invited persons, regulates the identification process in detail, regulates the security review and review of the person, removes the arrest authority, sets a distinction between constitutional categories of restrictions on movement and deprivation of liberty, reduces the time allowed to intervene in human liberty, while at the same time specifies the time of detention, clearly regulates the procedures with vulnerable groups, in some cases reduces the allowed time of detention and regulates the fundamental rights of detained persons in police procedures, provides for a clearer use of coercive means and sets a distinction between individual means, redefines the use of these means against the crowd and the method of use, and strengthens the conditions for the use of firearms as the worst police measure. Better supervision in the field of police powers is ensured, as their application is subject to more detailed and legal reporting and supervision, and a procedure to resolve complaints against the work of police officers is also laid down in more detail. The law contains a type of novelty and regulates the content of powers, indeterminate legal concepts, the definition of police procedure and tactical discretion, the new police mandate "road lock by blockade", criminal and intelligence activities, new police powers to ensure security and order at sports events and so on. The Group of Non-Aligned Members believes that the law is well-prepared and that it can be supported in further proceedings and consideration, as the Group of Members will also do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will introduce the position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! As far as the drafting of this bill is concerned, I have a similar position to that of the previous agenda item, so I will not repeat myself, but I will only touch on the issue from a national point of view. In doing so, I can point out that Article 19 which speaks of the use of language in the exercise of an activity in this area is, in principle, correctly laid down, but one error has occurred or, at least after our assessment, an improperly treated term, which we believe should undoubtedly be corrected if the procedure for the adoption of the law continues. The point is that in the 19th article, where it is stipulated that police officers must comply with the rules in Slovenian as an official language and the use of Italian and Hungarian, the applicants wrote as “additional” official languages. Now the "additional" is confusing in this context of the concept and regulation of nationalities, so it would not be right for this term to be used in the future. In accordance with the Constitution, the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the public and official use of the language of the national communities, the Public Use Act of Slovenia and other legal bases clearly provide for a method and only a name relating to the use of Slovenian or Italian and Hungarian, so we propose that it be consistent in this proposed law. In order to avoid any difficulty, we propose that article 19 be redrafted to read: “For language communication in the performance of police tasks, police officers must respect the rules on Slovenian as an official language and on the use of Italian and Hungarian as equivalent” — instead of “additional” — official languages in the territory of the municipalities in which the indigenous Hungarian or Italian national communities live, and then onward as in the text itself. [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] As I have pointed out earlier, in this case we will also support the draft law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At the previous point, in the introduction, I touched on the draft law on the duties and powers of the police. The UK, Germany, Sweden, as well as the neighbouring countries of Austria and Croatia, have two laws governing police legislation. In my opinion, this is a modern, European comparable and transparent law which systematically and comprehensively regulates: in the second chapter of the police's tasks, in the large-scale chapter, it discusses police powers and within this chapter, in general, on police powers, the use of coercive means, police powers to protect certain persons and facilities, police powers on water, data collection and processing, and on reporting and control. Chapter 4 is intended to appeal to the work of police officers and in Chapter 5 there are provisions governing cooperation with the security authorities of other countries. The forms of police work as well as other content are now regulated under the law, and the proposed law makes the content of the legal matter. This is also the answer to the question why the current Law on Police has only 140 articles, and now we have two laws; this Law with 167 articles and the previous Law with 137 articles. It is necessary to highlight some of the new developments that this bill brings: the definition of police procedure and tactical thinking, the definition of road closure by blocking the point. Such tasks as described in this Article have already been carried out under Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act. This task will be carried out when serious violations are committed. However, since this is a relatively serious intervention in human rights and fundamental freedoms, it is stipulated that this task will only be carried out under the authority of the Director-General of Police. Criminal and intelligence activities are also described, the changed conditions for the use of forced means of service dog and firearms, the clear distinction between temporary restriction of movement and deprivation of liberty, the definition of the performance of police duties abroad and the operation of foreign police officers in the Republic of Slovenia, the inclusion of detention time and the clearer and more transparent regulation of the appeal procedure. In view of the fact that the area of police powers at sports events has not been adequately regulated now, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that the provisions of Article 62 – the prohibition of participation in sports events and Article 63 – should be further highlighted. With the representatives of the ministry and the police, we have repeatedly found that the area, particularly with regard to the cheer groups, is not adequately regulated and that other ministries should also approach this issue. Members and SD Members would like to add to the findings of the proposed law that violations of public order and peace and of the security that are being carried out by individual cheerleading groups at sports events, in particular football matches, have become more common in Slovenia in recent years. Despite increased police and other competent inspection bodies, there are occasionally unexpected incidents which have a marked echo in both the internal and external public. It is therefore justified to adopt additional legal measures to ensure safety at sports events. Repressive or police action cannot, of course, achieve the full purpose of the European Convention on Violence and the Decent Conduct of Audiences at Sports events, in particular football games. It should be noted, however, that effective measures must be applied to those violent visitors who abuse sports events for violent incidents in the face of increasing sports facilities and at the same time popularising sport in Slovenia. The newly formed police authority clearly and clearly informs participants of sports events in order to allow them, as a result of the repetition, to be subject to a specific measure prohibiting participation in sports events. By replacing the prohibition of participation in sports events, the company shall communicate to the individual the commitment to zero tolerance for violence, which consequently violates the rights of others at such an event. However, the new police authority to suspend a trip to a sports event allows for the lawful action of police officers against a group of persons travelling to a sports event and already before leaving the starting point of travel or during the journey in breach of public order, and despite the warnings and orders of police officers with such acts, it does not stop. The aim of such a measure is to prevent further infringements on the road and, at the same time, to prohibit access to a sport event. The group's intensity must be disproportionate to the usual travel of the groups, as it will be necessary to meet the legal conditions governing the finding of a breach of public order, the failure to comply with warnings and orders, while at the same time the police, in order to prevent further illegal conduct from assessing the specific situation, will conclude on the risk of further infringements. Remember the damaged buses, trains, resting places, gas stations and other facilities that are on their way to the sports event site. This provision or these two provisions may prevent the recent incidents from happening in Ljubljana's Presbytery, where 9 policemen were injured, so that they also had to seek medical assistance. The so-called fans also broke, as I know, 330 chairs and threw them at the cops. However, the estimated damage was more than EUR 25 000. And when they were returning to Maribor, they, as I know, also dug up another petrol station in the cell area. Repressive measures are certainly not the only ones possible, but the first move is to address this issue systematically and in a targeted manner. Of course, here we must not forget the role of clubs, including cheerleading groups, and the upbringing of all these, and of course also many unsupervised statements by sports officials, which only fuel so-called fans. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the text of the law because we believe it is appropriate for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much. As far as the law on the powers and duties of the police is concerned, the tasks and powers of the police must be said to be somewhat easier than the previous law. This law basically, I will say in one place, in a slightly more systematic way, regulates all the familiar police powers, some slightly more precisely defines, and introduces three new police powers. As far as these three new police powers are concerned, it must be said that, because it is difficult to believe, but we will not oppose them. It is necessary to be corrected; what is right is right and what is wrong is usually very loud. But still, let me go over some of these comments – I apologize to the preparers, including Mr Zaberl, because maybe some things I didn't understand or correctly understood, but this will continue to be quite appropriate so that we can create a more accurate picture. Article 10, general police clause. I welcome that you have also introduced this expression, which was not, in fact, previously, because it is a European comparable matter. But I'm not sure it's the best option for the government to decide now. I recall in 1998 when we discussed this in the government and the then Prime Minister Drnovšek made it quite clear that "let us tie this to the Minister because this is a more operational matter than that the Government is meeting at a written meeting or I do not know any other meeting so that the police can react". It seems to me that it would be really better if it stayed the way it was, that it was attached to the Minister, but that there were no substantive changes in this article in fact. Article 11, criminal intelligence. I'll be able to learn a little bit more from the experts before I give a more solid assessment. In short, I need some further clarifications on this Article 11. But basically, it doesn't seem to contradict him. Article 21 I don't know if this is a better arrangement than it was. Article 21 now provides for the identification number of a police officer. The I.D.'s were there by 75, 76, if I recall, then they were gone. If you think this ID number is a better model, it's fine with me. It's that number the cop wears that he wears, the old one's on the belt. If this arrangement is better, fine. Article 25, modified identity. There have been some criticisms here, but it has to be made very clear that it is not about the changed identity of any police officer who would have made it up or wanted it, but it is about a changed identity in the so-called “undercover” activity. And there is an urgent need if the police but such an arrangement we know by now; if the police play the role of criminals in criminal associations to expose such criminal associations, then probably they can't perform there with their real name and name, with their car, if you want, and so on and so on, but probably these documents should be arranged, such a passport, ID, vehicle data and so on. [[...]] But I don't see any particular issue here, but I don't know how the administrative authorities are going to do their duties in official records. In short, if the administrative authorities manage to do as far as we're concerned, fine. Article 27, second paragraph – performing tasks outside the service in uniform. It's a pretty vague term. I'm telling the preparers, if that's the case. It's about those things where the police are supposed to react even when they're not at work. In my opinion, the term “if appropriate” puts police officers in one such distasteful position, namely, Officer A will be able to assess that it is appropriate, Officer B will assess that it is inappropriate, and the police chief will say something third. I would avoid this term “if appropriate”, but would simply get closer to the current life-related dictatorship, to certain crimes and so on, that police must react then, otherwise not. The police are purely ordinary people, and I see no reason for them specifically, I speak specifically, to point out what they must do at a time when they are not at work. Once there was such a situation that if a police officer went down the road with two children in his arms and someone went over the red light, he should theoretically stop it — where he would put the children, in one basket, on the ground, or whatever. Now the law does not foresee it, but I would recommend it, I would like it to be a little clearer; “if it is appropriate” I do not like it. Article 29, first paragraph, diplomatic immunity. The police must not act, but they must gather and protect all evidence. I don't know how they're gonna do it, I don't know. If there is a procedure with a foreign diplomat, it is known whether he enjoys immunity, what this immunity is, what he is allowed to do, and what he is not allowed to do. I think the proposed police are putting such a provision to shame. They won't be able to react here. The law now states, in article 29, the first paragraph, that, in the case of diplomatic immunity, they must not act, but must at the same time collect data and protect evidence. That's contradictory. If they can't act, they can't act, I don't know how they're going to collect data and evidence, I can't imagine what that would look like. If he can't act, then he can't be legitimized if he can't act, so he can't look at his car and all the other stuff. I think it's double-written. Article 29, paragraph 2 shall also speak of this diplomatic immunity and shall not act again, but shall prevent a great danger. I don't know what would be a big danger, but I don't think this concept is defined as what's a big danger and people, so the cops, I think they're putting it in trouble every day. Article 30 also refers, for example, to Members, but also to the immunity of domestic officials, including Members, Judges and others. He says that the police must respect it – okay, they must respect it, but because it does not have to be imposed by police law, because it is clear with other laws – but they must use all police powers. That's not working out for me. As now, they must respect the immunity of officials on the one hand, and on the other hand they must, but they must use all police powers. The matter is completely misplaced, and here I think we need to be more precise and relatively clear. Article 33, police authority. Although it is not understandable to me why now the equation of wanted and missing persons as one category, but we also object not, which is also nothing wrong, but I think it was quite clear earlier what they are looking for and what missing persons are. The missing persons are those who lose, get old, get sick, or run away, such as minors — in June when we have the end of the school year. The requested persons are, however, those we are looking for because of a measure taken by the State authority, whether they have escaped from prisons, escape or anything, because of the crime service, but if you think it is right, it is also right. Use of foreign means of transport and means of communication. Here we have one provision within the law, which I have practically not remembered since 1975 that any use would be, but allows a policeman to use, I don't know, your phone to use your car in certain cases and then it also belongs to him to compensation, such a citizen. Given the number of telephones and means of communication, means of transport, if you want, especially in terms of practice – already in 1998 we thought about simply throwing it out because life is not operational, because life is not useful and police do not use it, at least I don't see it being used in practice. That's why I think it's too much. A new mandate; despite the fact that some speakers have said everything possible, what is better and better arranged, I do not think it is more than three new powers, and the first is the ban on participation in sports events. In view of the situation at sports events, given the situation abroad, where you know that you also have a bunch of dead people because of mistakes, because of problems in protecting such events, I believe that the mandate is just that it is so arranged. This also means that part of the mandate that talks about stopping a trip to sports events. This means that if the police in Maribor find a group of people who intend to go to Ljubljana for a football game and clear purposes to cause riots there, they will simply be banned in Maribor. I think that's the right thing to do. Accreditation procedure. I don't object to him, but I don't know if that's an authorization, just like the question. I don't know if that's an authorization. But if it is, and it's okay, it's not harmful. Some of these purely marginal comments. Article 40 — Identification. With the previous law, there were some opinions by the Constitutional Court and also some problems; if the drafters did well calculate this to withstand constitutional judgment, that is fine. But you have to see it. If it holds a constitutional judgement and if the article is identical or at least similar to the current one, fine, it may be a problem. Article 45 – Call for covert recording and dedicated control. While this is a mandate that has been placed, I think, on the basis of the Schengen requirements in the previous term, but I will be given a little further training here. Article 66 – if you were there, Mr Zaberl, as a trainee, I trust you because I know that you are an expert in this area. If it goes through constitutionally, OK, but I do not have a clear answer to the question whether it goes through constitutionally or not, depending on how it is defined, but I believe that at least this time Mr Zaberl is really an expert in this area and that he has studied it well, because he is probably one of the greatest experts in this area in the Slovenian space. Article 96 — Use of firearms. There's a change now. This needs to be made very clear. I support her. Why? Because, even if the police might not support it, I was already in 1998 trying to make the arrangements look something like that. Today, police officers can literally shoot and kill a person who has committed a certain crime or who escapes from prison. You do know, however, that the entire judicial branch of power, within five or ten years of the trial, must not say so, such a measure. However, the policeman has been, or is still, in the position of prosecutor, judge and executioner of the death penalty, all of this may take two seconds. I believe that the proposed regulation is better. The proposed regulation is better because the use of firearms is only allowed in the case of defence and protection of one's own or another's life. I believe that this is better, although at the same time it must be said that we are probably one of the few countries in Europe that has taken this step in this direction. But I would still be in the position to support such a proposal. Articles 112 and 113 – data collection and use of technical means. I've been asked a few questions about possible abuses. I have no other comments. Chapter 4 — Complaints procedure. It is aware that the appeal procedure is a relatively problematic matter, but as many things as the Republic of Slovenia has regulated there since 1998 in this area, I do not know if any European country has done. I don't think so. The appeal procedure, in my opinion – has so far been a two-phase, so-called conciliation procedure and then the Senate. This marriage brings, at least that's how I read it, three stages. But I'm not sure this is the most urgent matter. Since it is important to note very clearly that from the time when police officers resolved their own complaints against their own work, it has been evident in the public, in particular in some non-governmental organizations, that crows do not turn their eyes and protect themselves and so on – until the time when they decide on complaints by entirely civilian people, the so-called external professional public, which now has a majority in the Senate, the number of legitimate complaints against police has not increased. This means that in the past the police have already taken extremely good care of this so-called "internal hygiene" in terms of complaints. I am not sure that giving in to civil society is, if you want, from the point of view of the introduction of a three-phase procedure and from the point of view of additional, if I may say so, a burden, pressure, if you want, on the police, who are experiencing stress and so on because of all this, necessary. In particular because it is necessary to know very clearly that the appeal procedure has nothing to do with criminal proceedings or with any other proceedings. Today it happens that a police officer, as a consequence of parallel, is a disciplinary procedure, say, in the police force, thrown on the road, and then the criminal procedure finds out that the police officer is innocent. I'm having a little trouble with these things. However, even if you look at disciplinary procedures that may or may not be related to appeal proceedings. You'll see that, I don't know, 95% or as much as in the state administration against cops. The other government doesn't worry about anything. Find someone else in jail or somewhere else, and then we're done, like only cops in this country are the ones who can be in disciplinary procedures. In short, as far as the appeal is concerned, we will not oppose him, but I don't know if it's such a terrible idea to give up all this pressure on civil society, after, I don't know what. Because in other countries, too, things are arranged in relatively different ways. Even more “democratic” in Britain, if I still have the right data, which is five or six years old, I am not sure that the situation is different there. People are promising themselves too often, "if I succeed in the appeal proceedings, then I will also succeed in the court," but these two things have no connection. This Regulation shall enter I have a minor problem with who may be a member of the Senate for appeals. Here, according to my assessment, we should write a little more precisely, a few unusual conditions this article has. If this person can speak Slovenian – I don't know, in Slovenia, Slovenian is the official language, so it will be difficult to apply or come in any German citizen who doesn't know Slovenian. But the problem is that he is personally suitable for a member of the Senate, why is this personally appropriate? I probably wouldn’t have been, since I was talking a lot against the current one — the former minister. She probably wouldn't have named me. I also doubt that Minister Zalar would call me because he says "personally inappropriate" here. This article and this personality in 145 would indicate something else to say and anything else to say or to define. At this stage, we will not oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the law on the tasks and powers of the police is to systematically regulate police powers in the law, as some powers and regulations on the use of coercive resources will be regulated by, or mostly by, the law. It is therefore intended to ensure an even higher level of legal and personal security of people and their property and to bring the law into line with other system laws — the Penal Code, the Secret Data Act. In the Group of Members, however, we would really like to draw attention to the important news concerning police powers. With these new powers of the police, we are clearly and clearly informing the participants of sports events so that, as a result of the repetition of the infringements for which they will be punished, they can have a specific measure of banning participation in sports events. While there remains a general awareness in society that only repressive or police action cannot achieve a comprehensive purpose resulting from the European Convention on Violence and Undecent Conduct of Sports Event Viewers, in particular in football games, it is necessary to realize that effective measures must be taken against those violent visitors who abuse sports events exclusively for violent incidents, while at the same time promoting sport in RS. The new legislation is therefore necessary. According to its content, it is more repressive than existing regulation, but it also contains specific safeguards that prevent disproportionate or excessive interference with the human rights of rioters at sports events. We are convinced that it is no longer possible to tolerate the destruction of ultrasonic fans or, rather, hooligans who are participating in football games and deliberately repeatedly damage foreign assets. And it is not possible to overlook the material damage caused by injured police officers, to whom we express our solidarity. What's been going on at football games lately is absurd, worrying and dangerous. Then we can ask ourselves, Who is currently directing order in stadiums — police officers or hooligans? Indeed, the Group welcomes these solutions and will therefore support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary! As we have found ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police is more systematically regulated by police powers in the law, as some powers and regulations, in particular on the use of coercive means, have been regulated so far also in sub-legislative acts. In addition, it sets out much more precisely the rights of individuals who have been restricted to movement or deprivation of liberty and reduces the time allowed to intervene in human freedom. Just so much for a summary. In short, we believe that the law is a measure of progress if this is to be translated into practice, and that is what we will see. One of the more visible changes is the regulation of the maintenance of order at sports events. In the Slovenian People's Party, we fully support stronger action against the decommissioning of fans and thus prevent the causing of major material damage and general danger by the cheerleading groups. At the same time, we note that in this segment much more attention is paid to prevention and not only to act more acutely after events have taken place. Indeed, many unpleasant events can be predicted earlier, as shown by domestic experience as well as experience from abroad, where they have special risk assessment scales and then act accordingly. Only criminal measures are recorded in the amendment of the law in this area. Some confusion remains in the regulation of the appeal procedure. The way in which complaints are resolved is thus prescribed by the Minister with a sub-law. The appeal procedure also does not identify the disciplinary responsibilities of a police officer. The complaint is becoming so complicated the procedure, which is not best in relation to citizens and it is rather desirable that it be even less in practice. I would like to point out some problems that we fear are not being solved by these two related novels. In fact, since the entry into force of the new Law on Offences, at least in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we receive signals from the field of increasing dissatisfaction over the work of the police. Not because of the higher penalties for the most serious offences, but it is clear that the new criminal legislation was the basis for a much greater activity of police officers in the field of road transport, especially in the area of the writing of criminal charges. It is also worrying that people are increasingly dissatisfied with the approach of police officers in the process. Speaking of powers and tasks, as an example, I can cite almost mass harassment of bikers, especially in urban centres and in night hours across all possible corners of the city. Of course, the penalties are now equivalent, and cyclists, although it is difficult for them to claim that the great threat to general transport safety is a useful way of filling the state budget, it becomes a feeling. Massive writing of sentences for all possible minor offences is not a way to bring the police closer to the people. The possibility of using a police warning as if it no longer existed. Even in the capital, we have the opportunity to observe policemen who are punishing bikers for driving on the wrong side of the bike track, although there is no such track on the other side. For example, look at the Slovenian road. That I don't even talk about punishing pedestrians. That is why, in the minds of people, a policeman becomes an undiggage, waiting for our mistake from ambush, a mistake that costs us enormously, given our current heights of punishment. Of course, every citizen has his own experience, and that is positive. So, Your Honor, I fear that the current system is creating "police offenders" whose purpose is not to protect but to punish, and they are just waiting for the citizen to be caught in error. There is also an increasing number of complaints about the behaviour of police officers in carrying out the official traffic procedure, as it is increasingly exposed to the superiority of an official over a citizen. In this context, there is an interesting example of the United States of America, for which we all know how repressive the police were there and how extensive its powers were. It is interesting that in the last decade they have found that such a policy of a repressive approach has further increased the number of conflict situations in official procedures and public anger towards the police as an organisation that is supposed to maintain order and ensure security. This also resulted in a lot of protests and even riots in the public. Today, all forces are focusing on a more friendly approach and improving the external image. As we say, I fear that all this standardisation is leading in the opposite direction. From all that I have said, the Slovenian People's Party's Group would propose the introduction of an instrument or certain applications online where citizens can react proactively and also anonymously or assess the quality of police procedures and give a personal negative or positive experience. Although it would not be an official complaint, the police would have an internal record of the success of police officers in the field, in particular in terms of relations with citizens, both internally and in accordance with the law on the protection of personal data. At the same time, within the organisation of individual police administrations, if they could see that there are problems in certain areas, they could also look for solutions. Such a proposal is also feasible due to the fact that the bill now clearly states that, at the request of the person in the process, a policeman is obliged to identify himself. I am even of the opinion that this should be a compulsory part of any formal procedure, because in this way a slightly more personal relationship is established, despite the fact that it is an official procedure and an official person. Therefore, given that the proposal for a law is at first reading, I can generally conclude that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in particular, we would like to see the so-called focus on the users of police services, i.e. on people, which is supposed to be one of the basic objectives of the law, somewhat more elaborate and slightly more defined in this law. I hope we can talk more about this further. Although we will not object to this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not oppose the transition to further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janez Ribič – he will not discuss it. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, let the mag be prepared. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. And I'll call you back. They asked me what was the position of the Slovenian National Party. I said we're against the previous and this law. They asked me why. And I made it clear to them, "because we have a law that is short, clear and concise and all the content is determined by a sub-legal act." But the point is that a law that is detailed and detailed and more detailed and more detailed is less understandable, and it is impossible in this fog to explore what is true and what is not, what has happened and what is not is impossible. It's impossible to find the truth and justice. That's impossible. The introduction of the law states: "Police work is one of the areas which is characterized by the fact that the law cannot provide for all situations." I agree. On the other hand, it says: Most police powers and police tasks are in the law on the duties and powers of the police “ – this is on page 3 –“... transferred from the regulations of the law.” [[…]] The principle of the law, however, is that it is clear, short, corrosive and that the details are regulated under the law, i.e. in total contravention of the law. Why? There's always a reason! Probably with certain goals. And this is why we find partially on the sixth page, where of course the Slavs always say, "this kind of topic abroad know, is not unknown, such regulation of police legislation on two laws is primarily Anglo-Saxon, in Great Britain, Austria, Germany, Sweden, Australia and Croatia." And I'm going to say that in Britain, Austria, Germany, Sweden have three times as much wages as we do! So what? That's not in any other law! But now we're gonna be losers, if we have as many as we do, as if we don't know what kind of Slovenians and Slovenians we are -- honest, working, we're not losers, we're not fools, but you've made us out of these laws, you've made us the locusts. It's just the maggots, we've been fighting the bastards. Such things are written in these laws — from 100 to 400 articles — as if we were just bastards, individually. I'm ashamed. I'm wrong in life, and I paid a fair price for these sins. But according to a law that already exists, it was clear and simple and short. And I understood him, just like any Slovenian who knows he can't drive drunk, but if he's stopped, he knows what's waiting for him. Pika, it's over. It is a violation of the constitutional right to take the exam that he has already passed, a violation of the constitutional right to be deprived of his liberty, that is a violation of human rights. Yeah, he's punishing himself, punishing donkeys with a prison sentence, fines. Yeah, to lock a man up just like that, because he didn't do anything, he just blew up a little too much -- leave the car, go home with a cab, or whatever you know and know. [[…]] Lock him up. Why? Why is that? A violation of human rights! I look you in the eyes, yeah, I don't like you, and you're drugged and forced to take me to a hospital where it turns out nothing's true, but who, what can I do? Nothing! Even in the paper the next day, they're gonna write the whole thing, and it happened, and then it was in the back row, but it wasn't. There's a million things in this marriage that really make us every Slovenian for the biggest bastard. I will now explain once again, especially Article 23. As a matter of fact, I'm still going along with the principles, we're going into the Anglo-Saxon system! Now we're losers because we're just like them. Then we're looking at comparisons. We do exactly what they do, here's evidence, the pro-Russian states; Finns and Latvia have this law and such measures in Article 23 as we do. Look at Denmark, which we have to compare, and it says, “they do not have special legislation in Denmark for modified documents”, says the paper. Why didn't we treat Denmark here? I'm interested in you as a man, as a Slovenian? There are two million of us, both of us. No, just like the Finns and the Latvians. Switzerland has a completely different system, and Germany, where the exact person must tell this and this person, "for this and this task you have a hidden identity". But we do have it in general. Tomorrow one will come to me, he will say that it is Miha, he will give me the bag in hand, that moment they will jump in, "You have a bag in your hand, what you have in there, a hundred thousand euros, you are condemned, you have a bribe." I have no idea who he is. That's what happened. This allows for paragraph 23. I have experience. My old father-in-law, knapsack, honest, experienced it in his 50s. Micah, who was not Micah, came to him and led him to talk about the elections. And he was an old father-in-law and he drank some of it, and he said, "No one will force me to vote, but if I go, but I will vote for the one I want." Do you know where he was the other day? He's in custody. This happened in the '50s, this is going to happen under this law. The law, I say again, was good about the police, in some articles it would be necessary to fix it, especially those who wrote it — not the three of you there, but the others — watching too many American movies with those badges here and here and when they return to the drug mafia and so on, but not enough with our cops on the ground and seeing how our cops are suffering and what they are experiencing. I've never seen that before, and I've never heard it. I've had a fight with them before, because I'm just an ordinary person, just like everybody else, but we've always made up our minds. And these are honest and honest people who work in the rain, snow, ice, and on the ground. And now they're in trouble because of their salary. That's the problem. And here we write some laws and some articles, and there's a lot of them. To really look at that cop when he's really working, and that's not it. The Police Act was a good, uniform, clear, sub-legislative act if certain provisions of the existing law were to be amended. This is pure fog. And then I'll go when they lock me up once, and because it says they can hold me for two and a half hours before I can even figure out which article this is in, I'll be locked up for 12 hours. And where shall I complain, Pontius Pilate? But if I go to court, I'll wait seven years. Come on. Pure fog. That's why we object, that. We're for legal regulation, we're for order and discipline, we're for the police to help, raise, prevent and finally punish. The order in Slovenia is different. The police have an assignment - you have to earn that much per month, punish! And he punishes, and that's all he knows. And that's the kind of marriage that helps, so I'm gonna say no to this marriage and to the last one. You want it or you don't want it. This is my personal opinion and the opinion of many of my colleagues and people who elected me to this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. He won't discuss it. Dr. Pavel Gantar, he won't discuss it. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We have before us a law that is always and in any case sensitive matter. Such laws, if necessary, I also doubt that the general replacement of the previous law is necessary, especially because it has been divided into two laws and is vague, but if necessary, some provisions on police powers must be written with a shaken hand. I will not say that this has not been tried or done, but, of course, the extension of police powers is always a sign of a sick society and the fact is that we have a sick society in some segments and we have many, many areas that are imported and sometimes have to be put in a normal track by means of coercive means. This is a great deal, but of course I agree with my forerunner that, for example, articles that regulate the modified identity and the modified ownership of the funds should already be written with a more shaken hand. And when it was stated that there are also legal provisions in this law and that there are already legal acts under the law, I am interested in why there is still little more submarital matter in these matters. For example, this consequence of these modified identities and the modified ownership of funds is the disguised investigation measures, as they are called here. They require certain financial resources. That's what it says here, in Article 26. And this is a black fund, and in the financial area, there are earmarked budgetary resources. This is for the payment of costs, this is a special black fund for so-called POMS and the specific methods and means envisaged both by the Law on Parliamentary Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services as the CAP. It seems to me that these are also PMS in some way that were previously regulated in the other two laws. And this is where the black fund is supposed to be. In the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, there is quite a lot of talk about how the black fund is controlled, because we know that the Black Funds of the Udba were sources of illegality for other intelligence services. I think there's a new possibility of a black fund forming here. I am not saying that for such an activity as is envisaged, and such powers are not necessary, only to get an explanation of what is new here, which foresees it. Then I noted that in relation to this criminal intelligence activity, which is already in Article 11, it is already stated in the explanatory memorandum that this is a very broad provision, saying that this is a very broad provision. You wrote it down with pride. It's a broad legal provision, you're writing that gives opportunities for an individual to participate with the police. This is not bad at the principle level, but only too broad a provision in such activities can be too dangerous. This could be dangerous. And look, some of the consequences of this criminal intelligence activity, which has now gained a place in this law, not only in the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services and the CAP, some of the consequences are also that this law allows or lays down certain restrictions, as in Article 9, where I think it allows for the finalisation of certain persons. This has probably been arranged by now. Article 9 states that the police may prohibit accommodation in a particular place or leaving a specific place. This is determined on the proposal of the Minister of the Interior of the Government. That's if we use the police term, the definition. I know that consolidation is sometimes a legitimate tool, but when everything is possible to be refined, it should be a little more precise, because on these soils this definition, which has not even been recognised, has in fact been used very often under the previous regime. This can also be a house prison, in other words. These things are pretty vague. That is also why I am careful here to commend the law, although it is a very difficult professional material and it would take hours and hours to study to compare nuances to a more police state if it is more inclined in this direction. The introduction also states that this law must be in line with the Penal Code, the Secret Data Act and so on. I think that it should also be written with the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, because criminal activity also belongs there. So these boundaries are not very clear, nor are they cohesive. I have also noticed that here, when he speaks quite a bit about powers, all these powers essentially refer to the part where the prosecution is a rather classical crime. But you have transferred the mandate of the NPU to this strange law on the organisation and work of the police, which we have mentioned. This is also the case in Article 22 of that Act when you grant the Director the right to decide which investigations into the suspicion of crime will be initiated or taken by the National Investigation Office. This is a very strange indication of powers and powers and, of course, this has been done for some purpose. When we talk about this consistency with the Penal Code, there are also amendments to the Penal Code. Experts and lawyers should say what would make sense, which marriage goes first, and then another marriage is aligned with it. Given that the Penal Code is a very extensive general act defining crimes, it would seem to me that the powers of the police would follow the Penal Code. I therefore ask whether this law on the powers and duties of the police will, for example, be in line with the Penal Code if the amendment I intend to propose to the Penal Code is adopted? This is an amendment that is due to this state of this country, which you have just brought with this government and this political option, which has ruled that the country is virtually bankrupt. That a number of crimes of economic crime are unexplored and unexplored. That there are dedicated people in this country who are not persecuted. We've seen that in the previous law and in the State Prosecutor's Act, you gave the Directors special rights to make a plan of prosecution. They say, “These will not be persecuted, and these events will not be persecuted.” Just as the Udja used to have the opportunity to issue an act to stop the prosecution. These are the more sophisticated provisions now introduced here. Like I said, which amendment I'm going to table. I am even more confident that I have to invest it, after yesterday, as I mentioned earlier, the performance of Dr. Vehovar in Studio at 17 when he says that these recapitalisations of the New Ljubljana Bank are a crime, because this is a robbery of citizens, which the state justifies not to do without. This crime must be sanctioned and similar crimes committed by these loans. And for this reason, I would suggest that the Penal Code should introduce a crime of issuing the country, including by bringing the country into such a situation as to make it worse than other countries, is also said in terms of economic crime, money laundering and so on. Now this is practically not being pursued in this country. But this is the betrayal of the country. And those provisions on the issue of the country – it should even be treason, but you've already thrown it out of previous penal laws, and it's gone. Actually, it's about high treason. It is necessary to introduce the issue of home country due to economic crime, money laundering and corruption. And one who is found to have issued his country in this way is sentenced to the maximum possible penalty. I am not advocating a death sentence; we know that treason came out of this law because all countries had capital punishment for treason. That's not what I'm up for, but it's treason. And in this country, there have been many issues of the country. The explanation of the concept of "sedition" says, "who, by his conduct, has put the state in a worse position, in a position that threatens its sovereignty". And we, too, have threatened sovereignty because it was stolen in large numbers because it was robbed, through banks, through tycoons, through dedicated persons associated with the regime, and so on. We have compromised sovereignty. We will probably be the ones who can expect bad consequences with regard to the euro. Betrayal was done here, and no one's chasing her. And I would like to know whether the law will still be in line with the Penal Code if the National Assembly also confirms this offence of issuing the country and threatening sovereignty on the basis of the crimes of the country's robbery with an economic offence. So where it should be very careful, it seems to me that it is sharpening. But where additional powers should actually be given, I do not see that. Indeed, the verification of the provisions allowing for the verification of the legality of the use of police powers is also very important. Here, however, I would like it to be written, what are the powers of the Minister in appointing commissions and all this very clearly, because in the past there have always been misunderstandings and strange behaviours in this area. We know that if the police control themselves, they're already in a difficult position. Furthermore, it is unclear to me whether or not I have found out what it is like to carry a firearm in a civilian and to feed it at home. There are many accidents, many abuses, or consequences of the conduct of the bride. For example, a drunk cop in a civilian uses a gun. Here should be a provision on how to store weapons at home — in a special closet, for example, so that children cannot come along. I didn't track it. I don't know where it is. Such accidents often happen. Of course, there is no need for outside-of-work police officers to use firearms because these cases are so rare and I think that Slovenia is so communicationally connected that if the police are ready to jump in and act immediately, they can act quickly so that those civilians can otherwise act within the scope of their weapons-free capabilities, but the use of weapons outside their working hours should in some way be extremely limited for a civilian policeman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Kek, Sara Wheeler, has the floor. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, you have the floor. Get Jurša, Weber, Slapnik and Gumzar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say quite the opposite of the position of those who have been represented here by fellow Members; so far no Member has debated, if I am not mistaken. And I have to say that I'm not asking myself so much about who wrote this law, but I'm particularly interested in what's written in this law. And first of all, I'm glad, obviously not that the marriage is quite detailed. That is why I am pleased that this is a law dealing with one of the important issues, and that is, when, in what cases and in what way and to what extent human rights and fundamental freedoms that are specifically protected in the Constitution can be restricted in international law and also in individual laws, because this matter is divided and placed in several laws. Because rights and freedoms can be restricted only for the protection of the rights of others, and police officers can limit these rights to individuals only in cases specified by law and law. Therefore, such powers can only be regulated by law. The regulation of interference with rights and freedoms must be determined in a clear way, we call it a lawyer, that it is a lex cert, that is, things must be determined and without question. And our task or obligation of the legislator is to provide adequate and sufficient guarantees to effectively prevent abuses. This law is also supposed to ensure that abuse is prevented, but we know that it can come and go because it is a very sensitive matter. And, in fact, I was surprised to find that so far, a large majority of these powers and duties of police officers have been laid down in the Police Powers Regulation. This should worry us that this has been the case, not that this matter is now being passed on to marriage. And police tasks and all general powers must be regulated in one place, systematically and comprehensively, in order to safeguard the principle of legality. And this also applies to the use of coercive means, and this is what this law brings to us. I must also express my satisfaction at the fact that the drafter of the law also refers to the fact that he has entered into this law or that some of the positions adopted by the UN Committee against Torture and then the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment have been adopted. And we know that there have also been some judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that have been imposed on Slovenia, how it must be handled by the police, and one of the things that Slovenia has been charged with is a multi-stage hearing of complaints against the police – when it was initially pointed out here that there are many degrees. In the process of handling complaints against the police, it is necessary to know that this is also the command imposed by the European Court of Human Rights of Slovenia, and also this committee, which I spoke about earlier, is said to be the Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. I would like to say here that I do not agree with those allegations that are coming have gone to the present debate at the expense of Article 29, which speaks of diplomatic and consular immunity. I think this article seems rather fragmented, and I imagine that the proposal was also based on the relevant international conventions governing diplomatic and consular immunity, and that it was probably already based on some established practice, as well as other countries which are parties to these conventions and which have ratified them, regulate these things in a similar way. Of course it is possible, given that the law is at first reading, then another of these formulations and has determined to improve, and I am sure that the applicant will do so, and whoever will succeed it, this law will. So I would congratulate those who wrote, if we were already talking about them, on this proposal by marriage, in the first place, because I think that this was a lot of professional work done and that even with this material, which can still be corrected in the next legislative procedure, some of the principles or some higher standards that have been in practice so far have been established. Above all, from the point of view of those people against whom police officers exercise their powers, of course, it is even more fair because they now have a law before them, which says exactly when, to what extent, how their rights and freedoms may be limited. Not that these details are – and are always hidden in detail, not to say "evil" – that all of this is then hidden in some regulations and counterfeiters, but the consequences are, of course, the abuse of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Weber has the floor to prepare Slapnik or Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The law is truly extremely detailed and describes and legitimises everything — from how a policeman can hold you and carry out the whole process — to everything related to the collection of data to be done effectively. Maybe that's why I would point out, in my opinion, at least I didn't track her in the law, an important practice. It's important that people also know a police officer who operates in their area. It's so-called regionals. Is this possible, even under this new law? Because here it seems to me that it is also very important that you know who you can turn to at any time and that, of course, this data transfer then definitely comes into processing, and, finally, it can also take more effective action from this, so that people are safer and that the events that are related to any of the laws are smaller or if they are already discovered as soon as possible. [[…]] So, the status of one district police officer seems to me to be very appropriate, still in modern times. I don't know if it's in this law, at least I didn't track it down. In the first debate I had at the previous point, I drew attention to a special attitude towards people in the border area itself, so that also in these procedures, which are precisely defined by this law, it seems to me that it would not be too difficult to try to define the very border area and the Schengen area as precisely as possible as one of the chapters of this law, since it seems to me that this is really one of the most intense areas where many interests and developments are intertwined. What is important, however, in my opinion, is that as few people as possible and as few young people as possible are released in a way that is vandalism or similar, it is important that various events and road closures and all that is involved in this are also carried out in as simple procedures as possible. Because the more we have opportunities to employ young people and all active participants, especially in recreational events, the less I think, the more energy is released in a way that naturally causes harm to society and causes additional costs. So this flexibility in events and the participation of police officers is, in my opinion, one of the very important tasks, although this process is relatively precisely defined in all these articles, but I would like to point out that it would not be good to overcomplicate all these procedures and that we may therefore reject the many events that we need for the reasons that I have tried to describe earlier. Just to warn us not to go into some extreme and then find that practically nothing can happen in Slovenia. Many times we like to adopt such regulations, either I do not know about Natura 2000 or other measures, and of course then in the implementation of the events, there are many problems in the implementation of the activities. So that one such appeal can be made to try to get as close as possible to the interests of people, places that this police supervision, the organisation of the prison is not an obstacle, but in fact one welcome support to all these events, where, lastly, you can provide appropriate security and, lastly, an effective performance of many events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Gumzar has the floor to prepare for Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. In any case, I agree with the need to amend the law on tasks and police powers, because in fact a number of novelties have been adopted and it is good that this is written in one place. Otherwise, I find, but of course from one's own practice, that it has been said too many times in this room, that the most disorder or vandalism actually occurs at sports events and that it is precisely these sports events that need to be controlled in some way or given more importance to them. In any case, I agree that, above all, there is a need to do something more orderly in football games and, of course, to ensure security for those people who are coming to these football games, not as general fans. I didn't even intend to talk about it today, but because some things have been said in this Chamber that don't belong in this context of this law, I will also say my own practice. This happened at the Olympic–Maribor football game in Stožice. The people who came to this game, those who were not strictly defined as Violes, we got a very good parking spot at the entrance to the Stožice and it was very well taken care of. They took us in a column, as if they were taking the campers, even to the cash register, where we could buy tickets. This was also very excellent, since our safety was taken care of. But when we got to the stadium, did we find anything? That the part of the stadium for which they sold our tickets is closed so that we can't go there and we'll have to sit in the same or the same stands as all the other organised Violes will sit. But between us were children, parents, mothers, and so on. And when I personally approached the first police officer and told him that this story was actually unpleasant, that we would be sitting where Viole was sitting, so would all the other visitors. And he said, "That's not my concern, you mustn't go there." And here I'm wondering where my security was? And a few days later, we see on TV, something happen? Maribor Club – so many and so many thousands of euros in fines, Ljubljana Club – 600 euros and the organizer is nothing. Yeah, so what now?Oh, my God! Where are the powers, where are the security authorities, and where is the security for those people? I have to say that I wish I could have been arrested by the police authorities that day because the next day I could have called a press conference and said these things, but now I'm going to take advantage of what happened there. There it happened; when they began, or unjustifiably, it is necessary to say, unjustifiably break chairs and smoke torches so-called decommissioners, it was impossible to access the police to these people because we stood next to each other. And when I wanted to let a cop pass, I had to push another fan into a cop that was grabbed by the police. Logically, he grabbed him, because he didn't know what he was going to do, but he didn't know anything about it. And these are now those powers. And what's in the end? In the end, we are shown as the biggest losers and the hottest fans, but among these fans there was, regrettably or not, also a member of the National Assembly with his family, there were some families with small children who we took to the dam when they started throwing chairs at the bleachers because we had the place for which we bought the tickets, the same police or security, or someone did not ensure that we were sitting where we were supposed to sit. And we were oppressed – because you can nod that that is not true, I was there and that is the truth – 2,000 500 people in a place where there could be a thousand or a thousand 500 people. That's the truth. And now, of course, these same security authorities are going to file with me if they accidentally filmed me there, a lawsuit for damages because they were injured. It's said so, and against their safety. So much for that. Within all the powers the police have, they must thus exercise 100% on the one hand and on the other, from those who are violators to those who actually care about them. But it was one segment, the majority among these or those who will look at it, because you can look at it I'm also willing to prove it with a few witnesses because three or four of us went to those cops who stood back, and we told them that, and they said, "We can't do anything." [[…]] And it's lucky that nothing else happened there. It is true, however, that in any case I condemn every vandalism that happens at football games and what happens at football games is, of course, not good. But when you put so many and so many people on the same stand, so many and so many of them, there could be a big scandal or even big things. And now, on the average, to say that everything is wrong at sports events and that this needs to be sharpened at all sports events, I absolutely do not agree with this, and I hope that this law will continue to receive positive support. Today we have our first reading, which I also think is the last reading of this in our composition and that the new National Assembly will overwind and that this law will be written so that it will be good. On the one hand, for those exercising powers and for those against whom such action will in some way be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Petek has the floor to prepare Urh or Mrs Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. When we go to Tina Maze's games, we don't have these problems, but it's true that there's a little bit of a different environment. I believe that the drafter had one great dilemma – on the one hand, more powers for the police and on the other hand, public perceptions and also policies that we are becoming an increasingly police state. However, without the powers of the police, it is simply not or is quite impotent, but it is indeed necessary to take into account the appropriateness, proportionality, of course, especially human rights, which have already been discussed here. I think it's good that the police get a little bit more power, as it's about security and order at sports events, because many times cheering turns into vandalism, many fans are actually vandalizing and endangering not only property, but also other people who come for a fair purpose, in order to enjoy some kind of game, whatever it is. I also agree with those who have talked about the inadequacy of criminal intelligence activities – Article 11 speaks of this. I have a considerable dilemma here myself, I don't know if it's new or if it's a para-intelligence service or if it's a legalization of any of the existing intelligence services. It has been said that there is an intelligence service within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so it gives me a certain dilemma. Also this fifth paragraph of this Article, which suggests that the way in which criminal intelligence activities are carried out through an internal act is prescribed by the Director-General of the Police, once again an internal act and we do not know what lies behind it. [[…]] We have also recently discovered an internal act of the Director-General of the Slovenian Police, by which he has determined that the response time or time when a special unit of the Slovenian police can be two hours. Please! The most elite unit of Slovenian police works from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., then the specials are at home on hold, they get 1 euro per hour, one is in Murska Sobota, the other is in Koper, and two hours have time to gather in Ljubljana to react. What kind of Slovenian police is this? I'll tell you another case. Powers are one thing. For example, the police made good use of the authority in the case of a Cora girl in execution, where police officers came in with marks in front of a house, with cameras, there were cameras, there were journalists, there was a lot of pump. At the same time they did not find the girl, the girl, the Koro girl, who is now writing about all the Slovenian press, has been unknown for four months, the police simply can't find her. So, one is the power, and the other is the question of the competence and quality of the Slovenian police. Today, there has been a talk that both of the laws we are talking about are inseparable whole. All right, on the other hand, they have different deadlines for entry into force, and if these two laws are truly twins, then it would be appropriate for them to have the same deadline, rather than for one to enter into force 60 days after publication in the Official Journal and the other 15 days after publication in the Official Journal. At least try to work it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Get ready for Zerjav, Shirca or Mr Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! It is almost so – because it is not true – that some discuss the quality of the proposed legal texts from a weighty point of view. Simon Jenko in the Jeep teacher cynically addressed this matter. You know that story about weighing books. Well, it's impossible to weigh laws today. I would, however, continue my consideration of the proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police, mainly from the point of view of human rights protection. By the nature of the matter, we consider the police to be a repressive body, but in fact it is also the task of the police to protect us. And since I recall many debates under the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence and other related events, including from the National Assembly, on zero tolerance for violence, in this law I have sought, in particular, those provisions which show how the police, with their powers and tasks, can also carry out the tasks of protecting weaker members in family relations, where they do not take place in such a way as to benefit all individuals of such a community. Many times it has been said publicly what progress the police have actually made in relation to those who show violence against the weaker in family relationships. Therefore, I think it is very important that the 56th article, which speaks of temporary movement limitation, also takes this provision into account, say. Or in article 60, which prohibits approximation, in paragraph 5, even between the powers of connecting different ministries, including the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which has an important role under the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence in writing protocols on what needs to be done, and what the powers and tasks of individual bodies are to run as quickly as possible as expected from the dangerous area of those who are victims of violence to be removed. So this is from one point of view, from the point of view of the movement limitation, which also takes into account – the prohibition of approximation, and I see it as positive. In particular, I would also mention those provisions, such as in Article 59, which discuss the specificities of the detention of children and adolescents. The practice is already increasingly focused on protecting the rights of children and adolescents. That, for example, there was now an open safe room that allows those who came into the conflict, including such procedures that take account of the individual’s age and personality. So these are all the things I read in this law as important improvements and which I also think are right to be included in the law. Therefore, I do not mind if the law is more extensive if the provisions are written in detail, because they also represent protection for all if the powers and tasks are specified precisely. And here I find it difficult to understand now some who have discussed how to demand a higher education of police officers, but then they say that the two such laws that we are considering today are not capable of absorbing because they have too much determination because they cannot comply with these provisions in their work. I think it's contradictory. And it would be good – I expect that whoever has so many powers will have so much authority and tasks that he will also know you well. Now to banalize things so that the work of the police will stop, because they will all go to a group study for one month, but it is also unacceptable and irresponsible, I think. I would now like to respond to what has also been said in the position of the Group of Members on paragraphs 62 and 63 and on events at sports events. It seems impossible for me to agree to have a special law for fans, and this is also recognised by those who participate in sports events. And it seems to me that this area has also been processed in this law, because these events also belong to the area of violence and violence prevention. Also in increasing tolerance. I do not know how to imagine, of course, and I would like to see that this area with regard to the cheerleading groups being treated differently when members of the cheerleading groups are participating in other events. When, for example, they are involved in political developments, they are pushed into their hands by political banners, or when it is possible for members of the cheer groups to find that their energy has been directed towards an intolerant attitude towards those different from them. But I can't imagine that something like this happening to us in another country, which is not a member of the European Union, that the incidents, the cheer incidents, have so far been sanctioned by sending 41,000 people to the Tribunals who were accompanying them, but they were only women and children under 12 years of age. That before the game began, the footballers threw flowers between the audience and the audience, that for the first time it happened, that the guest team was not whistled, but greeted with applause. The result of the game isn't even relevant. But what I mean is, this is an attempt to enable athletes to play in front of full-fledged tribunals, and how to make sure that violence with the tribune withdraws. You won't believe this. It was in Turkey. But we know what they had to do in European countries after they were victims. I regret that we should watch in Maribor when there is a game where you park the car, but these are concrete experiences from cheerleading a little more turbulent events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor to prepare Potočnik, Tanko, Anderlič or Mr Majhenič. Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. I will just give up the debate because, in fact, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, my colleague Barovic also justified our position and I fully agree with it. And there's nothing to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Get Mr. Kres, Yuri, or Gorenak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Not everyone is happy with the police, but it is people who are often exposed to stressful situations in their work. Even though it is professional, it is only people, usually men and fathers of young families, who want their partner to come home safe and alive. But they work for a lousy salary, 700 to 800 euros. And then we wonder why the cops are missing. Even fewer will go out from the police to the economy when the economy is “faithful”. Police powers are always the current topic and also the most sensitive. Because it's always about someone else, which is also about authority. They find that there are more external influences in this, more confusion in police powers. The same as the impact of trade unions, media and various civil initiatives on adopted laws and reforms in the National Assembly. What's the result? Disgruntled people and the fall of the government. The same applies to the use of coercive measures. I believe no one wants to be used against anyone, but they're designed for people and used. If it wasn't, we wouldn't be carrying guns, not wearing handcuffs, not carrying gas, not carrying what I know. And here the law was always clear. I hope he hasn't been abused too often. But something quickly happens here that is a violation of powers that can only be judged by an expert. In any event, it must be in accordance with the law which provides for an corrective and secure procedure for both: the one in the process and for the policeman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Gorenak has the floor to prepare the Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much. There are quite a few responses from e-mails and so on, and many or quite a few police officers are asking me if these people know what they're talking about. My answer was, "No, it's not that, it's that they're on TV." One such case was also expressed there on the other side, by Mrs Bebler. Look, you've been talking about how the European Court, the International Institute and someone else has loaded something. Yeah, fine, but it's not in this marriage. This is in the State Attorney's Office Act, not in this. So we're saying something that doesn't hold. The State Prosecutor's Office Act solves a case that has been mentioned that independent institutions must conduct an investigation and that the police cannot investigate themselves in the direction of suspicion of criminal service, and not in this law. Moreover, it must be said that on the basis of that judgment and recommendations from other bodies at the European level, Slovenia has been managed in a unique way. In fact, Slovenia is the only country in the European Union, I stress the only one where independent authorities, i.e. in the prosecution, investigate the suspected crimes of police officers in their spare time. If someone has a system that is regulated differently – from higher penalties to independent institutions and so on – but no country in Europe has determined that the crime of chocolate theft in free time, which is possibly committed by a suspected police officer, is solved by a special group of prosecutors, and there is no state. [[…]] This means that, in this area, we have simply squeezed the officers in this reference to the National Assembly and with the proposaler, Mr Zalar, a little bit more than is called. The following matters, the complaints that I have spoken about and which are defined in this law, are something completely different. Article 28 of the Law defines it, and I will not read it, or it is also in this law, but it is something else entirely. My dears, in this area, either I say this, one case. [[…]] The last complaint I received as an employee at the Ministry of the Interior was about the following. My teacher, who I really appreciated, wrote a complaint to me in her old age and wrote, "The cops kidnapped me, they took me to the hospital, and the doctors put chips all over my body, and now they're listening to me." Well, you see, then it's a complaint against the work of police officers. Although such a case is likely to be judged elsewhere than in this marriage, the police were still involved. I did not object to this provision, but I said that I do not know if this appeal against police officers should now be carried out in three stages instead of the current two stages. And I don't know if it's necessary, because we didn't object, we didn't say we were going to oppose the law, but we said we wouldn't oppose it at this stage. So that's what we said, and here we have to be pretty real. There was also talk of immunity. I didn't object to immunity, but I said that I don't know if we're leaving cops in too much trouble when we tell them in law that they have to respect the immunity of domestic officials, they have to respect it, and we tell them in the next sentence that they have to use all the police powers. I doubt it. In short, I think that the drafters of the law – the same is true for diplomatic immunity – will, of course, be able to take this part seriously, complement it, as we have our first reading after all, and I see no problem in this. So I didn't object to this immunity. Of course, I wonder whether it is necessary to act more acutely against police officers at every step than against all citizens. European countries in this area know different arrangements, as I have already said, different arrangements. In particular – and this should also be told to the police – where police officers are suspected of criminal services in the workplace when it comes to the alleged abuse of the position or the abuse of the position, I am here and will always be advocated by some independent authorities, such as the current group in the State Prosecutor's Office. That's right. However, I wonder if it is right for all other matters, but when it comes to some suspicions of criminal services – I don't know, chocolate theft, if you want to compare – I don't know why it would be necessary for police officers here to be dealt with more acutely than all the other citizens if they did it in their free time. That was my thought. So my thought was also in this criminal intelligence activity, here I will ask for explanations and I believe I will get them, and in some other matters. My performance did not go in the direction of opposition to the law at all but went in the direction of not objecting to it, contrary to the first law. Even the three police powers, which are newly defined, are in my opinion fine. Violence at these sports events is so great and it is growing and growing all normal frameworks that regardless of the color of the Government, I think the police must do so, regardless of who is sitting in this national assembly or who is sitting in Gregorčičev 20 in the government, and these powers should simply be given to her and nothing else. As far as these complaints, as defined in Article 28, which are not the subject of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, could be known, the situation is simply so clear that the number of justified complaints from the time when the police resolved them by themselves under the "crowd of crows does not exclude the eyes" system, and to this day, when the Senate has an absolute majority of two of the three civilian public – unlike the lawyers – while there you have given them otherwise, lawyers have to judge themselves, and you have adopted a law to judge themselves, as you know – unlike them, it is now arranged for the police to have two members of the outside and one in the ministry, not in the police employed, and everyone has an equal voice, and I stress that the number of justified complaints against the police has not increased at that time. Since 1976, there has been a case in the United Kingdom when both the Interior Minister and the Chief of Police resigned because when they introduced such a system to them, the situation has deteriorated dramatically and there have been many more justified complaints, which means that the police system has always been, and to some extent is right, but not always, directed somehow against the police. Just look at the number of police officers who lost their job in disciplinary proceedings and were dismissed in court. But it's a very interesting thing. You know, I've known some people, some people for a long time. You know, if a public official comes into this room with the Minister of the Interior coming from the types of SDS, Mrs Bebler spits at him that this is bad. Then the same civil servant with the minister or the secretary of state from LDS comes and congratulates him for the work he has done. These are political criteria. You check the law, and you follow the articles and you try to do things like that, you know you won't be political. Because it looks funny and my memory just goes back a little bit to praise an official once when it comes in the role of a civil servant, we thank him for all the weights, because he has a real minister or a real secretary, and then, when the same official comes sooner or later, whatever happens, he comes with a right-wing minister, but he is the dumbest and most incompetent civil servant. Such statements speak more of those who make statements than of government officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I will try to be correct, unlike Mr Gorenak. I repeat that because you spoke as if I did not know what I was talking about earlier when I referred to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the decisions of the CPT. In the case Rehbock v Slovenia, the European Court of Justice ordered the police to conduct special courses with police officers, where they will be presented with what are the kidneys they encounter when they are in the force force function. And I know that there has been a very large debate on this matter, not only before the European Court of Human Rights, but then also within the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, because the Committee of Ministers has repeatedly called on Slovenia to do something about this. However, the second point is that it has also been established by the relevant Council of Europe committee that there should also be another level of externality concerning complaints against the police, and I have talked about this and nothing else. And please don't teach, because maybe I've read something, and maybe I've understood something, and maybe I'm a lawyer, which you're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you. He has a word on behalf of the Government, Mr. Lah, please. Schwartz, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. In conclusion, it is good to make some conclusions on this debate, which, however, was, I have to assess, very constructive, before I start with this, but only for a short time. Mr. Gorenak, I don't know if I misunderstood you today or if you've changed your mind. In fact, in the examination of the Public Prosecutor's Act, you advocated that the department investigating the police be also responsible for crimes committed when they did not perform their duties. It may be necessary to look at the magnetogram, I remember this debate well, and also explain why such regulation in the law remained; when you unwarrantedly attacked that it was no longer there, it remained at the request of the prosecution. Well, we can look at the magnetogram. As far as this law is concerned, I can say, as I said in the introduction, that it seems to me that the debate was very constructive and that it will certainly be useful for lawmakers. The law before you today is relatively extensive. Many of you have already found out why this is so — because the purpose of the law is to clearly define in one place the powers of the police that it has when it intervenes in rights and duties because it protects the rights of others. As a result, all these rights, or all these powers, must be consolidated under one roof in one law and the definition of these interventions must be made as clear and as precise as possible, thus making the scope of this law greater. The law was prepared in the professional and external public for three years, i.e. in the police profession and the external profession, and the groups that formed it were made up of both practices and theorists. As a result, we believe that these solutions relating to police powers are of good quality in this law. Of course, those comments that have been made to specific articles, such as ideas, concerns and comments, will be examined and assessed below as to whether any further amendments to the legal provisions may be necessary. The need for two marriages has also been partly explained, perhaps not too much to say again. This is a separation between the work which means police repression, namely the powers of police officers against citizens in terms of the right to restrict rights to citizens, from the work which is strictly organisational and establishes some general organisational frameworks within which police as an institution operate. As a result, these two laws are separate or are in two separate regulations, precisely so that those who are interested in what rights and powers the police have against them can receive this in one law in one place, namely in the law on police powers. With regard to individual comments, as I say, I don't think I need to make a specific definition of them. Perhaps just for a short period of two or one that has been specifically exposed is the right to a modified identity of police officers. In this regard, it must be said that there is no secret action as described by Member Barovic, from the middle of the previous century, when police officers under cover or under false name checked who is going to the elections and how to vote. It's something completely different. This is a form of organisational or police action aimed at preventing and combating the most dangerous forms of crime, in particular organised crime, where secret police workers infiltrate organisational or criminal associations and those workers who allow such infiltration. Therefore, the use of these modified means of identification is limited exclusively to covert investigative methods determined by the court or in certain limited cases by the State Prosecutor under strictly defined rules of criminal procedure. So it is not a general mandate that would just give the police the right to choose their identity and thus hide from the public. On the contrary, all police officers – Mr Gorenak may have missed this – have for several years a special badge on their chest, and the choice of a policeman is whether to use a badge with a number or a badge with a personal name. All of this, of course, is so that the person with whom the police officer communicates and treats him knows who he is dealing with and against whom he can lodge a complaint, if, of course, the police officer exceeds his authority or if the person in the process considers that the conduct was incorrect. In the end, only briefly, perhaps in connection with the case at Ljubljana’s Stożice, mentioned by Member Gumzar. It should be made clear that an organisation that sits at a sports event, in this case a football game, is not within the purview of the police, is the responsibility of the organiser. The event you described is such that I certainly cannot agree with it. However, as far as I am aware of my colleagues, the police themselves have filed a criminal complaint against the organiser, precisely because of this way of organising a sitting which, of course, did not provide adequate security. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can only see one hand. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Just one sentence. You're right about the numbers. I agree with that, Secretary of State. I was thinking more about that number on the belts. But as for this second piece, around my position in the State Prosecutor's Act – this of course we can look at the magnetogram – I said that the prosecution insists on such a decision that the former Attorney General is also in such a position and I also made it clear that my personal position is not so. In fact, my personal position is simply so that in the given circumstances that we have, and because of the judgment that it is necessary to settle this in an impartial manner with independent authorities, Slovenia could arrange this in two ways. There's more than one way. Like the Austrians, I think the Hungarians have higher sentences, let's say one of the cases. But we could have arranged it in a different way, at least in the way that it is now. This is the responsibility of the police in this special section of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office for crimes – they also deal with – which are committed outside the service, have nothing to do with human rights violations, abuses, etc. This part could also be arranged differently by treating it in the same way as all other citizens. Unfortunately, that second part, the first part, means crimes committed in the service, any abuse, human rights violations, etc.; the situation is such that it must remain in an independent body and we have nothing else to do here. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 23 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 9. 2011 in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, it's on the proposal of a law on supplementation of the law on breaches in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'll be relatively brief. Maybe even in a time shorter than the one on the screen. The Group simply decided to submit a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences for the following reasons or for the following reasons. This year there was information that the directors of the Municipality of Ljubljana simply kept payment orders in drawers for about a year. That's probably what the mayor ordered, why? Because of being nice to the Ljubljana people and to the people to get the elections, in short, all the other things. But when the elections were over, they were burned, as I call it. Or, according to the local word, they started sending out thousands and thousands of bills in the form of payment orders. Many people who turned to us The highest amount I remember was somehow over 30,000 euros when one person put all these bills together. [[…]] And these are the amounts that some driver probably can't pay, that's the obvious thing, and we're putting him to death. These were the reasons why we proposed this law, and we said in this law how to settle matters according to our view. In fact, sending payment orders in this way is a politically coloured matter that we do not send them before the elections and send them out after the elections, as it happened in Ljubljana. And another matter — a sentence handed down after one year or ten, twenty sentences or thirty sentences after one year do not have any effect. It has an effect if the sentence is imposed and executed immediately, then it will affect someone. After a year, it's also very questionable to prove with photos, and I don't know what else. The legal security of citizens is also questionable if we send them three kilograms of bills after one year or something like what happened in Ljubljana. The current situation is simply so that the possibility of this kind of delay with the issue is also two years, within two years, otherwise it is possible, as you know, to pay the so-called “half” if you pay immediately, which is not in the event of a complaint. So we're proposing what in our marriage? We suggest that the payment order be issued immediately on the spot. If this is not possible because of the painting – as you know, on highways and elsewhere, we are being photographed and carried out on the basis of those photographs – we propose, under this law, that this is eight days from the service of the offence, that such a payment order is issued. Under some other conditions, however, there is a deadline, at least according to our proposal, a month for service under certain other options, or an expiry date of three months. This would avoid Semiček still remains and does not apply to violators who are resident outside the Republic of Slovenia because there are different procedures. [[…]] In short, with our proposal, we believe that we are responding to the life situation that has taken place. Just as we have adopted the Wine Act – as you know, since the signing of the deposit and the implementation took five days – it seems appropriate for us to react quite quickly in this case to prevent such situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, for an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, welcome! The Government's position on this bill is rebuffed, not because they would not understand the reason for such a proposal and not because they would not agree that such a practice, which appeared in this isolated case, is unacceptable. Indeed, the law already in its existing form contains, in its existing Article 55, a provision imposing upon the criminal authority that, on official duty without delay, it must quickly and simply identify the facts and collect the evidence necessary for the decision on the offence. And, having regard to this provision consistently, the case rightly raised by the Group of Members should not come. Based on the responses that have emerged in the public after this phenomenon has occurred and which has also generated considerable public attention, we can see that this has actually been a one-off case, resulting from the introduction of new technologies to measure the speed in the city community and the new powers that the municipalities have thus received. Since then, such problems have been gone, and the city’s own congregations have acknowledged that it is economically much better for them if the fines are recovered and paid immediately, not just after one year. Otherwise, the proposal of the novel is inconsistent with the law as it is today. Individual exceptional cases should not in themselves be a guide to legal change. Rapid and reckless legal changes are also contrary to the principle of legal certainty. If the bill had been adopted, it would have resulted in an increased number of obsolete offences. Indeed, the proposal proposed by the proposers sets new expiry dates. This means that if the hands are delayed, the persecution against these crimes will no longer be possible. The result will be, not that the prosecution of offences will be more effective, but that some perpetrators will be amnesty because, for logistical and technical reasons, it is always impossible to issue a payment order within these deadlines. The expected logistical and organisational, as well as the financial implications of such a law in the form proposed, are such that the Ministry of the Interior, which is the largest criminal body, faces insurmountable obstacles to the exercise of its powers, and again the solution would constitute a breach of legal certainty. The proposed amendment would also provide for provisions which lay down specific advantages for offenders in relation to the general basis of liability and decision-making in respect of infringements of road traffic rules compared to other offences and are not in accordance with the other provisions of the Offences Act in the proposed law. In such cases, it would be advantageous for the perpetrators to have their criminal proceedings aged more quickly. Obsolescence can be achieved in a variety of ways, as is often the case in practice: by avoiding service, by complaining, by adding unfounded complaints and so on. With all this, I am sure that those violators who are most in need of sanctions could successfully delay the procedure until they are obsolete. Nor did the applicant explain the meaning of the different arrangements for those road traffic offences dealt with in the rapid procedure, in relation to all others, including those dealt with in the ordinary proceedings, so that it is not clear on which circumstances could be based on a constitutionally acceptable distinction in favour of road traffic offences which, at the level of threat and at the level of protection of goods, may be more serious offences — such as speed overruns, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs or something else. However, further discrimination in the relationship between individual offenders arises from provisions governing the time limits for the implementation of the procedure. According to the new Article 57c, all road traffic violators are not in the same situation as those whose solutions are detected by the use of automatic devices, although under legal conditions all may be issued payment orders. The law also provides for specific facilitations regarding the time limit for the execution of the procedure and the level of the sanction only for those offenders whose infringement has been detected by a control device, without taking into account the gravity of the act or offence and other circumstances relevant to the limitation. Therefore, if I conclude, it is possible to understand the desire and momentum which led to the proposed amendment, but the proposed change in such a form is neither necessary nor appropriate, as it will in practice likely lead to more new dilemmas than will solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u96	Your Honor! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Offences that is before us seeks to ease the situation that many citizens, especially Ljubljanans, have caused illegal and, in the opinion of certain legal professionals, also the illegal conduct of the City Board, which sent payment orders for offences committed a year or more. We are particularly convinced that it is necessary to make more appropriate and more precise arrangements for the service of payment orders for infringements identified by mobile radars so that legal interpretations of the rules are no longer possible. In 2011, fines and other fines were expected to result in a cash flow of EUR 5 million to the Municipality of Ljubljana, at least as reflected in their adopted budget. In order to generate enough money, the city authorities in Ljubljana at the beginning of 2010 acquired two devices, a speed radar they installed in civilian passenger vehicles. At about the same time, they placed traffic signs with a speed limit of 30 kilometres per hour on many roads and streets along Ljubljana. The city authorities have also charged themselves with the budget at the expense of the misdemeanours committed. The essence of the penalty should be a restriction on traffic and in no way a budget, either municipal or national, should be filled. We are increasingly finding that it is not a desire to comply with the rules in traffic, but that infringements provide returns to empty cash registers. For if that were not the case, the presence of police and city officials on the roads would be more noticeable, but not hidden, but the radars set up where one is expected to commit an offence, but there is no one in the cities exposed to possible disasters. In short, it is only a matter of serving, but it is not a matter of transport safety, which should be a priority and warnings should be more appropriate. Of course, this does not mean that offenses should not be punished. In our view, it is not disputed that offences are identified and sanctioned, but it is disputed that the offender of the offence committed is not warned as soon as possible. If a police officer immediately imposes his sentence, the offender will certainly pay more attention to the prescribed restrictions, especially when he realizes that the offence provides for the sentence of the penalty points. Legal experts also agree that the issuance of payment orders after a longer period of time is illegal. Infringers should be informed of the offence as soon as possible or as soon as possible. Only in such circumstances does criminal policy have some meaning. The Ljubljana City Department is very successful in catching drivers, as the data we have shows that 11 000 500 payment orders were sent two months ago due to the speedy driving of drivers, including those who are supposed to commit a crime a year ago and no longer remember the violations. On the basis of the Law on Offences and the Law on General Administrative Procedure, it is assessed whether those procedures of the Municipality of Ljubljana are legal and in accordance with the provisions of both laws. According to lawyers, these procedures are not in accordance with the law, as sanctions must be imposed immediately or within a reasonable time. Punishment after a few months or even a year is not a reasonable time. A decision within a reasonable time is a legal standard and must be respected, because otherwise it makes it difficult to challenge the assumption that the vehicle owner is also a real violator. Traffic offences are certainly a lucrative business for the Municipality of Ljubljana, as they contributed to the treasury community for up to EUR 1.2 million in four months. And as we can see, this year they're planning on this item for EUR 5.2 million, which convinces us that it's not about disciplining drivers, it's about making money. It's probably the same thing in the police department, and it's not just about road safety, which should be a priority, but just for profit. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u98	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues and everyone else, welcome! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Offences was made, which is evident also from the explanation of the law, in response to the conduct of the City Council of Ljubljana. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that the behaviour of the Ljubljana City Board was inappropriate, and that more than a year's delay caused inconvenience to many citizens and citizens. The key to the assessment of the LDS bill is to answer the question whether the case of excellence in the Municipality of Ljubljana was a one-off case or there are indications that such matters could occur more frequently, which would require changes at systemic level in order to address this. The Act on Offences in its 55th Article provides that the criminal authority must, without delay, quickly and simply establish those facts and collect the evidence necessary for the decision on the offence. In our opinion, the Ljubljana case is more likely to result from the lack of prepared changes in the functioning of the registrar in the light of the new powers of the municipal authorities, and, as we read in the media, from problems with the computer program, rather than from the planned misappropriation of the legislation in force. Of course, this cannot be an excuse for such conduct as those who received a notification of the offence after one year, but should not rush on the basis of a single case of excellence by amending legislation that is already seeking an effective and swift procedure. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also ruled in one of the cases on which the legal proposal is based. It follows from his explanation that only a flat-rate reference that because of the departure of the event, the offender cannot claim who was driving his car cannot raise reasonable doubt in his responsibility for the offence. This means that, in terms of legal certainty, the position of the offender, given its unaltered evidentiary burden, should not be different from that of the current regime alone because of the duration of the proceedings. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we understand the intention of the law's proponents, and we agree that the conduct of the Ljubljana City Board was unacceptable. However, we are opposed to amending legislation on the basis of individual, one-off excessions, especially if these would result in unequal treatment of offenders on the basis of how their offence has been established, which would also happen if the Bill of Supplements of the Law on Offences were implemented, on the basis of the dictatorship proposed in Article 57c. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In May this year, we have been tracking information in the media about more than 12 thousand payment orders waiting for violators at the Ljubljana City Office base. Most of these cases are, as we know, speed measurements-related violations. Today we have before us a concrete response of the opposition to this information, this is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Offences. At first glance, it could even be a welcome and acceptable proposal for a new law relating to the extension of the procedure and to the implementation of the road traffic infringement procedure itself. However, in the Group of Social Democrats we assess that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We can even agree with the proposaler that these payment orders, although with high fines, criminal points and even the withdrawal of the driver's licence, do not have very large preventive effects. However, among violators, as well as among other road users, they caused much ill will and dissatisfaction over the conduct of the City Department or the municipal authorities, because they had received only months' notice of punishment for an offence they did not know they were guilty of, or perhaps even convinced that they had not done it to drive in accordance with road traffic rules. We can assume that many of the gross offenders at the first fine would probably have acted differently in the following way, as they would have been more aware of which conduct is not in accordance with the rules. We do not know that a monthly delay in issuing payment orders in respect of infringements of road traffic rules issued by inter-ministerial, municipal or municipal authorities would be a general rule, but it is only one municipal red tape service. The introduction or assessment of the status of the proposed law also shows that it is a matter of Ljubljana's infringement of road traffic regulations and the timely or untimely issuance of payment orders in the Municipality of Ljubljana. If this proposal had been adopted in the proposed form, we would have adopted a regulation setting out specific benefits for infringements of road traffic rules, such as those made in Ljubljana. Those violations would have been erased. We already know the Abolition from the beginning of the previous mandate with the Act on the Cessation of Certain Procedures on Offences and the Forgiveness of the Execution of Certain Prison Penalties, by which the competent ministry reduced its judicial backlog at the beginning of the previous term. At that time, we drew the attention of Members and Members of the Social Democrats to the lack of a well-thought-out legal solution and to respect the principle of equality before the law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that this is again a non-systemic solution, a solution that leaves more open questions than it solves them. The proposed amendment seeks to introduce a shorter deadline for the limitation of road traffic offences. The law also contains instructions as to how and how the chairman of the criminal body should act and what fines should be made. We believe that it is necessary to verify that such extraordinary events can be prevented by means of sub-laws. We also call on the competent state authorities to exercise control over the work of municipal authorities, municipal administrations and municipal authorities, in accordance with their competences, and if errors are detected, they should be removed together with local officials. In specific Ljubljana cases, however, the real reasons for delays should be addressed in particular. These are problems with the computer application, but not the immediate implementation of the law. On the broader grounds for the rejection of the proposed amendment, the National Assembly was briefed by the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, and we agree with them in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The SDS Group, which proposed this law, will somehow support the law. The basic intent of amending the law on offences is a shorter deadline for statute of limitations, since we have recently witnessed scandalous and excretory cases when people received payment orders for a traffic offence even after a year or more. The amendment of this law is short and simple and provides us with greater legal certainty. This amendment refers to the fact that, in the case of a road safety offence, a rapid procedure is envisaged and, at the first stage, the criminal authority is responsible, the offence has expired within three months. Further; in any event, the infringement procedure is no longer possible, irrespective of the interruption of the statute of limitations, when two years have elapsed since the date on which the offence was committed. Where a payment order is not issued to the infringer and served on the spot, the official must issue the order within eight days. If the authorised official delays this period, he shall inform the chairman of the criminal authority thereof and shall ensure that the order is issued within one month of the finding of the offence. If this time limit is extended, only half of the fine imposed may be paid by the offender under the jurisdiction of the payment order. The timing of the issuance and service of payment orders is very important if, of course, we are to achieve a preventive purpose with penalties. On the other hand, the Ljubljana case, when individuals received bills of fines after one year, indicates inorganicness or chaos in these services. There may also be doubts that all of this was purposefully done to make punishments more difficult to find and that they could not seek legal protection. This also calls for a change of law. The implementation of this law would not make it possible for the budget registers, where the money from the offences, to be filled more up-to-date. However, the incentive will also be for the criminal authority itself to carry out its work on an ongoing basis, without delay, and to have its documentation, one way or another, regulated. For all those employees who, of course, do not do their work conscientiously enough, other legislation is competent. In Slovenia, we talk a lot about driving culture or driver culture; of course, this is not at any level of envy. We could learn a lot in many European countries. But we also need to ask ourselves about the culture of those who punish us. The additions to this law say that if we have to pay something because we have committed an offence to pay it as soon as possible. This depends not only on traffic participants, but also on police officers and editors. Therefore, the timely delivery of payment orders is also the basis of legal culture, the basis of the rule of law and legal certainty and predictability. There is not only a commitment in the rule of law that we must also pay the penalty within a certain period of time from the payment order received. The receipt of payment orders, when it has taken up the snow twice in the course of this, is inadmissible. It is ironic, however, that the criminal authority with a payment order sets us a payment deadline of 8 days, while the bill of lading took us a year or more. It is inadmissible for the criminal authority to have the possibility of sending payment orders for a period of two years. Despite the already expressed views of the SDS groups, however, we expect and count on broader support in this law, as it introduces more order and more responsibility. We help our citizens, and we help ourselves after all. There is no need for citizens to be further annoyed and disturbed by lazy or unsuspecting employees who do not do their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law, according to the Group of Members, really creates a very important part and a problem of legal security and also of equality before the law, which undoubtedly requires that we also deal with it in the National Assembly, even though it is people who commit and commit traffic offences. As we have already heard, the motive and reason for the introduction of the law was the conduct of the City Order in Ljubljana, which sends payment orders a year after the offence was committed. The applicants state that this is not in line with the purpose of punishing, a special preventive function and so on. In the Group of Members, we have really discussed this quite a bit, and we believe that this initiative for amending the law is justified and that it has a grain of salt. In particular, when it comes to so-called rapid procedures where there are no hearings and evidence proceedings, we believe that there is no and no reason for such a breach between the offence committed, the offence decision and the payment order issued. We believe that this step is very bad, problematic, because we know from the theory of punishment that the perception of justice and justice requires a causal link and a meaningful relationship between the act committed, the offence and the penalty or the order of payment. If someone has committed a parking offence and the penalty has not been pronounced and the payment order issued at some reasonable time, only after a year, it will be understood as some kind of injustice regardless of the severity of the offence as some kind of lightning from a clear light, because time distances cancel out the link between the offence and the penalty. I quote: “The punishment of a year after the offence, for which no one on the surface stopped you and you had no contact with the Guardian of the Order, but the offence was discovered by a machine, it seems completely pointless and bureaucratic. A man doesn't remember for a year whether he was driving down the street where he was supposed to commit a crime. [[…]] Now that a machine has recorded the offence, they can impose high penalties over thousands of euros and many penalty points. I believe that this goes beyond any reasonable and permissible limit and measure.” According to Dr. Ljubo Bavcon, I quote according to Dr. Rakočevič's article in legal practice on 7 July this year. In this article, Dr. Rakočevič argued that the position that the issue of payment orders in a rapid criminal procedure is not at all bound by any deadline is not justified and, convincingly, at least in my opinion and in our opinion, proves that the essence of each mandate procedure is that the determination of the actual situation and decision-making are linked and that the competent authority must decide on the basis of legally sound facts immediately, without any procedural action, such as hearings of witnesses and experts and examinations. What does it mean now? The author says and quote: "In this case only means that the payment order must be served without delay, as soon as possible, but of course they did not justify the lack of persons and the lack of technical means to accept such an apology." From this point of view, as the Secretary of State and also colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler have pointed out, it would not be necessary to supplement the law at all, although it is true that the Offences Act does not show the deadline for issuing a payment order. However, taking into account the relevant legal system and order in Slovenia, it would make sense to take into account the provisions of the ZUP, so to speak, Article 272 and therefore such a decision should be issued within one month at the latest. And if that's all it was, then this marriage was taken from me as a serious marriage. Why? However, we have a judgment of the Supreme Court, we have a judgment saying that the issue of a payment order within a relative period of limitation is not illegal, is formally valid, and as such does not affect the rights of the offender. At that time, it is perfectly clear that the Supreme Court correctly concluded that, within the context of the relative limitation period, this issue of the payment order is correct, but by allowing for the actual, will or willful, issue of such payment orders, even after some reasonable time, for all of us a reasonable and reasonable time—immediately. We therefore believe that we agree with the fundamental intent of the law that, at least in an urgent and rapid procedure, when the offence is identified without a presence, we could say that the body that identifies, say, radar and so on, but it makes sense to think about going in the direction that the applicants propose, and we support the fundamental intention of both short-term obsolescence and shortening the deadline for issuing a payment order when it cannot be issued and served immediately at the scene of the offence. In doing so, we note that the eight-day deadline is really very short and would actually mean the abolition of all such offenders. Therefore, for the second reading, when consulting legal experts, we will draw up an amendment which, in accordance with the above reference to Article 222 of the ZUP, will set this deadline as the deadline — immediately or within 30 days. So a payment order can be made immediately and within 30 days at the latest. At the same time, we will also review the provision on the reduction of this relative limitation period. So, at this stage, despite the concerns raised from a systematic point of view, it seems more secure — not the radar, but on the safe side of the legislation — to support the law at this stage to see whether this can be regulated with the amendment, and if this could be regulated with the amendment, then such a determination would really be accepted. Like I said. The facts cited do not prevent the issue of payment orders within a serious reasonable period. So, in the first phase, we will support the law at first reading, and for second reading we will prepare an appropriate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is quite clear why we are considering this proposal for a law today. What happened in the case of the City of Ljubljana, when they actually sent out a package of criminal charges within a few days for the past period of more than one year, is a disaster. And it is the result of an absurd follow-up to bureaucratic principles, as well as a lack of sense of humanity on the part of the civil society or those responsible in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Not only does such a way completely eliminate the importance of criminal sanctions. More people were even left in ignorance to commit crimes at all, and then they were punished by a sample of the number of offenses. In short, it is a totally inappropriate practice, and in the existing law it allows for more than an obvious marriage hole. Of course, it is appropriate to check that the amendments or statutory deadlines in the proposal for a new law are in practice feasible at all, and of course it is not permissible to change the excuse for further employment as threatened in some municipalities. Also, re-half of the sentence, if the criminal authority has not issued the order in due time, is entirely reasonable, because if they wish to fill the budget with a penalty, then at least they should try to impose the penalty within a reasonable period of time. I warn you, no one in this place denies the responsibility for the offence committed. But does this mean that we must let things stay the way they are so that citizens will fill the budgets of the congregation at the expense of ignorance and ignorance? For such a case may be repeated even tomorrow, or the punishments may already be gathered, but they are not yet sent. No, we need to find a solution. In dealing with the novelty of the law, there are basically two articles and I see no point in discussing this in a long and broad way. If the proposal does not have any problems with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, whose opinion we will get in the future, then we will not have any problems with it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I hope that from this point of view you will also be able to look at the matter for the rest of your colleagues, that we will not witness any further political controversy, and that in this case we will be better off without looking for a number of bureaucratic excuses to respond as soon as possible to such evident marital nonsense for the benefit of those for whom we are here. In short, the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the legal novelty at first reading, as it is necessary, but it is essential, to find a reasonable solution to the problem. For the practice we have witnessed in Ljubljana is according to the domestic saying of making a fool out of the country and out of all its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Since there are very few reported presences in the hall, I will only call those who are present and are on the list. This is going to take a little longer. Mr Györek has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Tanko, you want a word? No, no, no. Mr. Kres? He's quitting, too. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u108	I would point out from my point of view that it is possible to agree with those who say that this is unsustainable, that this has happened. Many drove the same road every day to work without realizing that they were filmed every day with an apparatus when they committed an offence and then received huge penalties and a huge number of penalty points and even a stolen driver’s license. And I know that this is a problem that should be solved in some way. However, I also understand all those reasons from a systemic point of view, which say that we cannot only exclude a violation in the road traffic part of this offence and that we cannot also impose different age limits for various offences, irrespective of the gravity of the offences committed. So I would personally tend to try to solve this problem. And now I see that some of you have taken this position that this law should be supported in the first stage, and then we can see what should be done. In our Group of Members, we have decided to follow the will of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, and we have somehow supported it, we have seen their reasons as very weighty and important. Given that we will not vote on this until tomorrow, if my colleagues allow me, I will only say this — in my name — to try to find a solution, but perhaps to show that we are studying this issue again in our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Skrlec has the floor. You want on behalf of the government? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I won't be long because I don't want to cause any confusion. But it is a question that is not as simple as it seems at first sight. Only two cases can lead to what if an arrangement is adopted as proposed. The proposed regulation is applicable to infringements detected by automatic means, i.e. radar, and relate to infringements of road traffic rules rather than to other infringements of road traffic rules. Which means that for offences that you will be caught on the radar and can also be very severe, these could be serious speed exceedings in the settlement, this shorter limitation period will apply. The risk of not repeating the scenario we have seen in the past would thus be somewhat popular. At the same time, offences not of a nature to be detected by radar, such as parking, are subject to the normal regime. And there's no change in that regime. And if there was a risk that after one year I would get a package of bills or payment orders for wrong parking today – there is the same danger tomorrow. I doubt that the amendment can fix this, because this subject is regulated in various articles. As a result, I do not think it is good to rush into solutions that are legitimate or reflect legitimate concerns, but concerns that must be addressed by those who are responsible for the offences. And those who govern offences, those who are criminal authorities, are also bound by the provisions of the law that command them to act quickly. For the task they have is to protect safety. This is the concession they received from the State to carry out this task. And they can implement this concession under certain conditions to implement it in an appropriate manner, i.e. in a reasonable time, not with delay. Another example that I would like to highlight is this: when we have, for example, someone who commits multiple traffic offences at once – let's say that he drives unbound, drives with his headlights off, calls during the ride, while at the same time in the village he drives 83 and is detected with radar – when the conditions of Article 55a are met, because it is the same historical event and the same evidence, a single procedure will be conducted, which will expire within two years, and consequently absolutely within four years. This same driver, if he commits only one offence, that is, if he is not bound, the limitation period will apply only to those proposed in Article 43a as proposed by the applicants, i.e. within three months, although he has not been bound, as the driver in the previous case did. In these two cases, which I believe are a little more complex to understand, we see that such an arrangement leads us to have different ages for the same offences, only depending on the process in which the infringement is being conducted and the way in which the offence has been detected. For this reason, we note that it is very difficult to consider whether this is the right step before the amendment of the law, even the law that interferes with the area of criminal law. Nevertheless, as I have already said, I understand the full legitimacy of the wish which leads the proposer to settle this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. But since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it? I only see one hand of Mr. Petan. Here you go, Mr. Petan, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Your Honor! In our country, for at least 10 years, probably more, we have been struggling with bureaucracy, fighting to remove bureaucratic obstacles. What does that mean? This means that bureaucrats, not in that bad sense, in that positive sense, would work up to date. So they don't send you from one room to another, to the neighbor, or across the hall, or maybe to another building. Or what I've already experienced; when an account had to be paid, they sent you through, to the post office, and pay there. And what we're dealing with today is a typical example of bureaucracy, and if we don't call it "no", and if we don't try to find some solutions, it means we support it. Maybe they'll send the bills back for two years next year. I don't know if that's the point of what they started this job or this control that was supposed to make some sort of order on the roads. But what is interesting is that there is also some doubt as to whether these services are even part of the work they are doing. If someone sends you a bill after one year that you did something or that you didn't do something or did something wrong, even if it's a road violation, it's a little weird, actually, it's more than weird. And one more thing, there is also doubt as to the correctness of this. But who remembers after one year whether he was actually at the intersection of that road, usually it's on the intersections or on that side of the road? What if they set me up because it wouldn't be weird? Yesterday, I was talking about a similar case in another law. When you receive a notice: "We inform you that last year in February and March you did not settle the bill for this and do this service immediately, otherwise we will give you to the judge for the offences."or whatever the penalty is. In the end, it is ascribed, "In the event that you have settled the amount at that time, take this as irrelevant." What does that mean in other words — they want to fuck you! If you have proof that you paid this bill one year ago, then you're off the hook, otherwise pay. There's nothing else. But if that's what I'm entitled to, then it's another matter. In this case, you don't have any proof that you were there. If you have to pay some bills, then usually you have a relationship with that company, they send you regular bills every month. They don't send you here every month, and you don't even know if it's real, but you don't remember. After one year, I'm sure he's questioning whether I was even there. What if they set me up? I've told you specific cases where this is happening. If you've saved all the evidence, then you're saved or not. But you don't store that kind of evidence here because you don't have a permanent relationship with this red tape. If you get it, you get it. I think it's more important than it seems at first sight, and we can't just say, "Yeah, you know, this is a very difficult thing." Of course, it's a difficult thing to do, but then what do these things do if they can't handle it, if they can't do it sooner than they can in a year? But something else is interesting — that they suddenly sent a few hundred, a few thousand of them. Yeah, how could they handle that? All of a sudden they've been working or they've been stacking them up for a year, and then they've suddenly been sent? Something's not right here. If you're dealing with bills, it's being sent out, that's how I imagine. Not that you're gonna bet there for a year, but five officials are gonna be working on it, and then they're gonna send together as many as they already are. I would say that we are not in a hurry to propose this law – after all, we have a first hearing, this is the slowest procedure – so that we can debate, misinterpret, express our opinions, crystallize solutions. Nor do we claim that this is the best and only viable solution, but it is such a matter that is worth considering and must be considered, otherwise there is a whole lot of doubts. It is necessary to consider the meaning of such moves. If they are unable to make things happen sooner than in one year, it is better not to do so. But I think it's educational, so you have to. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Time's up. This concludes the debate. Mr. Tanko, it's only possible to share time once, and at that time only one hand was raised, I'm afraid. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 23 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 9. 2011 in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is for discussion on the reply of the Minister of Education and Sparta, Dr. Igor Lukšič, to the business question of Daniel's guilt in connection with the single term of the winter school home. At its 30th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response submitted by Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšič to Daniel Krivac's question on the uniform term of winter school holidays. I give the floor to Daniel Krivec for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport. Mr. Guilty, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! We have before us a debate on the response of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić, concerning the one-week winter holidays. Pursuant to Article 14 of the School Calendar Regulation for Primary Schools, the Minister for Education and Sport issued more detailed instructions on the school calendar for the 2011/2012 school year, which re-assume a one-week period for winter holidays in the third week of February. The Minister has not provided a satisfactory response and explanations in his replies to date on the basis of which the data and opinions were re-adopted by such harmful decisions. Due to the expressed economic interest of the Slovenian tourist and catering industry – the Association of Slovenian cableway drivers – and the many negative effects that have already emerged as a result of this year's February single winter holidays, which were first realized in a single period, we propose that winter holidays no longer take place within a single timeframe, but are time-consumed. In recent months, numerous criticisms and counter-arguments have been expressed due to the first single winter holidays for the whole country. The data show that the one-week winter vacation period has affected the less busy tourist facilities and lower income performance compared to the previous years, when winter holidays were in a two-week period, which the profession has been alerting all the time. Nor is there a negligible outflow of resources to a neighbouring, tourist-strong country where, due to the occupation of domestic capacity, income in other winter periods is being drained within a time-consuming period. We can see that the single winter holidays have a number of negative effects in the economic field, but also potentially on the safety of skis and roads in the proposed tightened term. The insistence of the Ministry of Education and Sport on maintaining a uniform one-week term for winter school holidays is surprising. During almost a year of ongoing discussions and efforts to return to the old two-weekly regime of winter school holidays, strong arguments were repeatedly presented at the Ministry of Education and Sport with proposals for a new dictatorship of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act and its Article 27. However, that argument was not accepted and disregarded by the Ministry. It also disregards the opinion of the evaluation group set up by the Ministry of Education and Sport and examined the first implementation of the single deadline. In conclusion, this group clearly identifies the consequences of the single deadline and proposes to reintroduce the two-week deadline. The question is why the Ministry of Education and Sport insists on its decision, as the calculations show that with each million euros it is pouring out for winter holidays abroad, the state treasury loses about 150 000 euros in VAT revenues and that these taxes are charging other countries' cash. This year alone, the Treasury lost at least one million euro of value added tax from this title. However, the outflow will continue in the coming years if the situation remains unchanged. In these difficult times, efforts should be made to increase the income of the economy, maintain jobs and tax revenues to the state treasury, and not systematically reduce winter holidays by 50 %, which brings economic damage, taking into account the sale of ski tickets, hotel accommodation in mountain centres, the use of thermal spas on the coast, the accompanying offer of a fall in employment with landlords, and so on. The insistence on a single-day term further reinforces the impression of the arrogance of the current government and ministry and the strongly authoritarian and repressive functioning and disobedience to living and working conditions. There is probably no need to base more on the fact that the tourism economy represents a promising economic sector. With major multiplier effects for the better operation of both agriculture, production, service activities and other economic and non-economic sectors. We therefore reiterate our proposal that the Ministry of Education and Sport re-examine the relevance of the school calendar for the 2011/2012 school year, which puts winter holidays into a single period, so that they last one week and begin the third week in February.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Igor Luksic, Minister for Education and Sport for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u116	President, thank you so much for your words, Members of Parliament, Member of Parliament! It would be good to begin by finding that the conflict with the reality of this debate and this proposal is complete. If Members of the SDS found that a non-disclosure had been voted on Tuesday by this government, which therefore does not have the possibility to propose it at all – it can, of course, study and change the timetable to be amended and published by the regulation in March or April 2012 – then they would of course find that this debate makes no sense. But as we can see, gentlemen in the SDS have written speeches and do not take into account the real situation. But well, look, the obvious was about democracy. We have repeatedly replied at two meetings of the Committee on the Economy, at two meetings of the Committee on Education and in five replies to the questions raised by the Members that the procedure was extremely democratic; it was attended by all those who had something to say in the school field, saying, "Teachers, principals, parents." No one objected. We went into this change precisely because parents, teachers and principals suggested it, and they proposed it to the previous government, but it didn't do it, and some others did. We did it. It was obvious that there was going to be 15 million losses in cables. Mr. Krivec no longer said this in this justification, fifteen million losses. No one's justified that. The vacations passed together and no one claimed that there had been 15 million losses. Nobody! There may have been a loss of income planned, but why? Because in Kranjska Gora two hotels did not adapt and this week they did not sell to foreign guests or to anyone else because they thought that the school authorities could change the school calendar just like that during the summer. So there was no loss, there was no record of this loss. It was mentioned, and there were reports of traffic jams. There was no crowd on the roads, we've all seen this on TV, you can see these videos, they're still on POP TV, Channel A, public television, they've all been watching this. Nowhere was it crowded, nowhere was there an accident — not on the roads, not on the ski slopes. On the contrary, the surprisingly small crowd was, why? Because members of the SDS are also responsible for this because they have triggered a panic to be crowded, and then people prefer to stay at home. So, thanks to the fact that it wasn't crowded, it was mainly this panic and panic policy. Tourism has fallen; see figures, tourism in the first trimester of this year has increased, 6 to 7% growth in tourism. On the ski slopes, growth in the spas. How do you know there's been some crazy loss? According to our data, 4% of people were skiing abroad in 1980 and January 2011 data and February 2011 data – an ever-surprisingly same percentage. So there was no spillage abroad. And now that we've been on the electoral campaign since Tuesday ahead, I would like to draw attention to the following, which is crucial. For SDS, the key issue is education, the issue of single or divided holidays. For me, the key question is the school policy, the quality of the school process, the quality of the teacher's work, relations with the parents, knowledge of students and then employment, whether the children are ultimately literate, oriented, foreign languages. These are the key questions. We have here on the side of the SDS for the whole year, for the seventh or eighth debate on the subject of single or divided winter holidays – this is only for the Slovenian public to know where this country is going. It will happen to us that the Minister of Tourism will publish school holidays, that we will have a united ministry of tourism and education and will make schools "school as a factory", as Stipe Šuvar once wanted. I'm against it, and I don't think that would be a good trip.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u117	Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u118	My time's up. I know it's Tuesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Just so it's not anything. Mr Krivec asked a question in his previous session. The National Assembly decided on its parliamentary proposal to hold a discussion on the answer today. This decision was taken by the National Assembly and today this item is on the agenda, so there would be no ambiguity. We are now continuing to present the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've been running errands since Tuesday, honourable Member and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we find that school space is occasionally disturbed by stakeholders who perceive school as a first-class field for the implementation of a free enterprise initiative. This image is encouraged by part of the political elite, in particular the SDS. As an alternative to harmonised changes, the policy of rejuvenators has been established by understanding the school as a field of reproduction of entrepreneurial logic. In doing so, they rely on the OECD position that education assesses through economic optics, in particular a profitable contribution to a saving small GDP. Winter vacations are just one such question. The second question is the interest of publishers, which is intertwined with the interest of parents and school policy. The third question, as an interesting one, is the assessment of the constitutionality of restricting a free enterprise initiative because in the School Diet Act we prohibited the installation of machines with soda and sweet drinks. And we could talk about things like that, but now the chronology of events that have led to where we are. At the initiative of the SDS Group on 6 October 2010, we held a joint meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and the Committee on the Economy and then adopted two conclusions on which some like to rely. But these two conclusions were perfectly clear. In fact, the first decision imposed on the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Economy to closely monitor the pupils of the single winter holidays. The second decision for both committees proposed to the two ministries to evaluate the effects of the single winter holidays and to decide, on the basis of this and in accordance with the envisaged procedures, on any amendments and additions to the school calendar rules. As far as we are aware, such evaluation or at least a meeting of a working group was held at the Ministry of Education and Sport. On 27 January, the Committee on the Economy discussed the impact of a single winter school holiday on the Slovenian economy and then called for the immediate cancellation of the uniform winter holidays. Well, then the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth began to address the issue of a single term for winter school holidays as early as 30 June 2011, when it addressed the material produced at the Ministry of Education and Sport. The title of this material is the Procedure for the Adoption of the Rules of Procedure amending the School Calendar Regulations for Primary and Secondary Schools. Let me say, interestingly, that at the time when we considered this point, we found that the interest of the SDS Group of Members on the subject was significantly reduced, because at this point we had already been inconclusive, only one member was present from the motions for emergency meetings, and this one also voted in favour of a decision which was then forwarded to the SDS Members, the absent members of the SDS, in favour of a decision. Well, it has already been mentioned that we have heard five of the questions raised on the subject of a single winter holiday, and there has been one parliamentary initiative. I'll get back to that. But look, when we're talking about one winter vacation, it's important to take into account that the decision to change the rules has taken place twice on the established principle and within the prescribed time limits, and it's impossible to take initiatives to change things just outside these prescribed frameworks. The question is certainly not simple because it concerns one hundred and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred forty-four elementary schoolchildren and twenty-seven thousand two hundred secondary schoolchildren. And, of course, their parents. And when, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the decision of the Ministry of Education and Sport has been justified, let me remind you of the arguments on which we rely. Seven thousand students go to schools outside their region. This is said to make it impossible for them to take vacations when other family members are on vacation. The education of children in different places makes it impossible to share a vacation together, and the unanimity of holidays caused the absence of children, since parents employed in another region were only able to take vacations during the holiday period of the region where they are employed. The Regulation has been amended by the Directors, Teachers and Representatives of Parents. In the interest of this decision, the letters were also in the public media. Today, the student and the student have the opportunity to take advantage of the five days they excused, sometimes this option was not available. And when a public opinion poll was carried out on when they took advantage of their family vacations, 52% of respondents found that when the most favourable skiing conditions were in place, and not during winter vacations. In fact, the number of students and students has decreased recently, this is an argument that reduces the severity of the experience of skiing. The strongest argument for us is that the school is not a business that adapts to the economy, and the economy is, as we see, not very successful in adapting to the changed holiday habits in Slovenia. The reserve of cableways is seen in annual tourism. During the summer, there is a tithe of just over 40 cableways. Compared to Austria, more than 300 cableways operate in Austria during the summer. That's two-thirds. Quality standards of Slovenian tourism are set by the workforce of student services without acquired basic knowledge, and this also contributes to quality or reduced quality of services. And if the opposition – the present, by Tuesday – is truly committed to excellence, then we should also consider answering the questioners who say they are deciding to go abroad for better services. Well, now let's remember what the opponents of the single vacations read or predict. They predicted losses of up to €15 million, crowding on skis and roads, threatening the Minister of Education and Sport and Home Affairs to be responsible for accidents. Fear of crowds has actually turned visitors away from skiing. And in two February weeks, 118 thousand visitors are expected to be less than the revenue from the sale of ski tickets, amounting to between 2.2 million and 3.6 million euro outages. Interestingly, opponents of the single holiday suggested that, in addition to reintroduce shared vacations, when setting the time limits, they would also take care of when the Slovenian cultural holiday, which is a fixed date, is “but when it is empty”, and then that holidays should be organised according to the regional principle, and a number of these could still be heard. Let us see what the documented answers to these fears actually say. On the oral question of how uniform holidays affected safety on skis, I received such an answer. According to the Slovenian Internal Affairs Inspectorate, which has been running a record of accidents since 2008 under the Ski Safety Act, there were 802 accidents in ski resorts during the 2008/09 ski season with minor injuries, during the 2009/2010 season there were 113 of these thousands in the 2010/2011 season – by the end of February – 431 accidents with possible injuries. It is also important to note that, due to the favourable winter conditions in the 2009/2010 season, there were 24 skis and the season before and the season we are talking about now was 19. In public publications, it was possible to read this in the article "Uncertain revenue of cable drivers" in March: "Not because of the crisis, but because of the bad weather and the late start of the season, the visit of most Slovenian skis will be worse than the previous season, and in Maribor Pohorje and Kanin the skiers will be more than last year." »When bad weather is forecast, the visit is minimal when it is beautiful, we have record numbers.” [[…]] This year's season began in Krvavac two weeks later than the previous season, but in January and February, when there are single holidays, the visit is the same as last year or even a higher percentage. At Vogel they had a quarter less visit than last year at the same time, but the loss of revenue for December and the first half of January were losses related to the lack of snow. And they say, "To the question of what kind of income we will have, I cannot answer you, because we are totally dependent on time and guesswork would be similar to skill." So much in terms of what the cablemen said and what could be read. But the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published information that in February this year there is 2% less accommodation for foreign tourists than a year ago – foreign tourists less. If we are to watch other movements, it should be said that habits are changing and that the number of overnight stays in marine and medical capacities is increasing. Wire transport in the first quarter of 2011 – again citing data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia – was 16% lower in January, February and March than in the same period in 2010, but is linked to poor weather conditions and lack of snow on skis. This shows that the number of working days during the observed period was 12 % lower than in the first three months of 2010. So, it's not any fictitious data, but it's citation of identifiable data. And that's it. In one of the media, the editor in her editorial asked my most relevant question about vacations, because the real question is, "Are school holidays really intended to fill tourist treasures?" No, they're not. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are committed to ensuring the autonomy of the school area and to taking such decisions as are of the quality of the educational process in favour. Therefore, the equal exchange of teaching with holidays in the same parts or intervals is one of the best ways to make sure that both primary and secondary school students can rest from what others often say is a demanding business, that education is difficult. And if we are to achieve good educational results, then we must make sure that we do. So there can be no place where some will see how, because we have a large population on board, it is easier to achieve better economic effects. They do not see the school making for the Slovenian economy, the tourist economy as a whole, in fact, when it educates for sport, when it eliminates swimming illiteracy and when it eliminates ski illiteracy. When providing organised forms of vacation and education within the framework of the school in nature. Not to mention that the benefits of Slovenian tourism also have a positive impact on other economic sectors. Therefore, we believe that the evidence of the damage they have caused to one winter vacation is unfounded and that for a thorough evaluation it is also necessary to take into account and provide relevant data, but not to claim that it is not possible to give them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present his position on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thanks again for saying that. First of all, I would also like to warn the Minister that after three years he could have known the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. My question was raised in June at the last meeting – at the time the Minister was still fully seated – and I think it is right under the rules of procedure to discuss this because the State Assembly voted. So the rules of procedure here are clear, and I don't think there's a dilemma here. We have heard quite a few facts from the speaker, but they will have to discuss with the Minister or the Ministry what these relevant data are. Jehovah’s Name Is True, 1 / 1 7. The Minister stated, quote: "Because of the evidence that they had had a negative impact on tourism..." ...school Minister Igor Lukšič, to those who claim that he has thus not received statistics from the State Statistical Office... "...but cannot be directly linked to the impact of single holidays." He says: “Not one of the fears that many actors have unduly warned about has come true.” So you're quoting Surs, who says the minister doesn't have the right data, so you'll have to figure out who's right if the minister can claim that he doesn't have the relevant data. If we move forward, the Ministry has changed the rules on the basis of, of course, internal acts, which it has all the rights to, but it should be noted that the Ministry of Economy, the Directorate for Tourism, is already 25. 5. 2010 pointed out that it did not agree with this amendment. And my first question was only later, 24. 7. and it was not only mine, it was also by a respected colleague of Bevek, and to this question Minister Lukšič then replied that all these facts and warnings would be seriously checked and taken into account, but nothing happened. The Ministry of Economy made comments within the deadline, 25. 5. That's what this document says that I have in front of me, which I got by e-mail. It is true, however, that this merger and disengagement is governed by the Code of School Calendar, which is not accepted by the Government and is an internal act of the Ministry of Education and Sport, or adopted by the Minister. However, as the Minister has dealt with this issue, it has been clear from my first question of the Member, where the question is why such a decision, on the basis of what information or reasons, the distinguished Minister replied: "Dear Mr Member, President, Members and Members of Parliament. The Ministry has not done any analysis of economic damage, which it does not do in any case when dealing with school policy." That is why we are in this country where we are, because every ministry can have this country as it seems, and the Ministry of Education and Sport is not dealing with the consequences that their regulations cause to a permanent entity in this area. Very interesting! It is also interesting to see a magnetogram of the Council of State where this topic was addressed in 2011 when, despite all the pressure from economic operators, by civil initiatives and various initiatives, not only the Slovenian Democratic Party, it was pointed out that this merger of holidays has only harmful consequences and that we have only introduced such a measure in Slovenia and that no European country knows it. During the debate held in the State Council, Dr Zoltan Jan, who once again advocates the position of the Ministry of Education and Sport, also responded in the same way as the Minister. It is said that this is an initiative that extends to an area where the State Council does not have competence. So far, it has been said that the Council of State is responsible for specific topics that are dealt with in specific areas, but not by a representative who advocates the schooling of this Council of State, says that the Council of State does not have the authority to discuss such topics. That's very interesting. You and the minister must have reconciled it. And he goes on to say, "All together..." – again, I quote him when he said that the reason for introducing a single holiday is that some teachers have children in different places and that they can't take a vacation together and so on – he says at the end, and this is very instructive: "It's all a small part of the economy..." talks about tourism, "and this is that part of the economy that invests and lives continuously from subsidies, including all cableways, and of course these cableways are significantly more expensive than abroad." [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] It is very interesting for one representative of our country who sends our cableway in some way to some indefinite state, that they are somehow parasites in this country, that tourism is part of an economy that invests nothing but draws from this country. "Double and longer winter holidays children and Slovenians benefit abroad and not at home," concluded Dr. Zoltan Jan. Very nice. After all, we don't need countries anymore, but we all go abroad for summer vacations. And he says, "That's why I think this initiative is irrelevant." Nice. Why, then, do we have the National Council to deal with specific subjects that touch the individual department? Thus, on my question, the Minister says that the State Council and the Committee on the Economy have nothing to do with this and that the Ministry of Education and Sport in this country knows most what they need and, of course, what others need. In this way we have also come into these problems that we have, because each individual “hara” sector in its own way, as it seems. Previously, several numbers were listed on how nothing affected them. I have a few data from the Ministry of Economy, the Directorate for Tourism, which I will provide later, and I would like to point out earlier that the Ministry of Education and Sport has appointed an evaluation group, confirmed it and given it certain tasks. And this evaluation group has also produced data on the basis of the first season or the first vacations that have been merged, and has also submitted this data to the Ministry, which has in some way rejected or failed to take them into account. Before I go to this very interesting data, I would also like to say how the Ministry of Education and Sport argued why it is also reintroducing a single holiday in the school year 2011/2012. In this document, which you discussed at the Ministry of Education and Sport, says: “The Ministry of Education and Sport has always advocated the majority position of parents, schools, teachers, principals and professions through the process of amending the School Calendar Regulations.” The following sentence is interesting: “At meetings at the Ministry, parents expressed their desire for a single winter holiday.” So, one minority — because I doubt that most parents come to the ministry, apparently only the dedicated ones came — insisted that this should be arranged. I've, I've got to say, I've been forgetting and asking a few managers in the area where I live, and no one's been asked about these things, I'm very sorry, and the minister is going to bring up some information that he's been talking to and with whom he's not. It also says that the winter holidays have proved to be excellent and have achieved their impact; I do not know what effect single winter holidays should have from the point of view of the school process. I know that, in preparing for this decision, there have been quite a few options on how to deal with this matter, and that the principals and parents have pointed out that “roast potatoes” may be in excess of the school process and cause a disturbance, which the minister warns that students do not need to be burdened and unloaded too often. And there was also a solution on the wallpaper to maintain a one-week holiday and to abolish the “rompeers” and this did not happen. And here it says in the paper that they turned out to be great. From what point of view it's excellent, it doesn't mention. Is that why school success has improved? I don't know. Don't say anything about it. It also says that during winter vacations, instead of skiing, people went to health resorts to a greater extent. That's not true. I'll read the information I got from the medical center later. In February and winter this year, the health resorts suffered a large drop and their representative, G. I.Z. That's what the document confirms, not Surs. In this document, cited by the Ministry of Education and Sport, it says that all further research and analysis, as already done, I do not know what they were, showed what preliminary results show, and that this will be a strong enough argument to keep the School Calendar Regulation in force. You discussed this on the Education and Sports Committee. Later in a document or in an article in Dnevnik, which is not an accident newspaper that the SDS would issue, the minister says that there is simply no data, neither Surs nor he has, and that he will therefore decide to extend the holiday. But here it states that it will be based on analysis, research, and I do not know what such a decision will be made. So you'll have to deal with what and how. Below this document, which the Ministry of Education and Sport has submitted to the Committee 28. 6. 2011 also says that the working group, which is to review and prepare a comparison of the operations of tourist companies during winter holidays, has prepared a report and says that the group has met three times. No, she's met four times. I also have a fourth record in writing, and I'll read it to you later. And she says that at her last meeting on 3 May 2011, she accepted preliminary evaluations. But next time the group will meet again on May 3rd, it says, so this material is a little bit unconstant, but it says so. I mentioned earlier the information I obtained from the Ministry of the Economy, which was also transmitted to the evaluation group and the Ministry of Education and Sport, where they say that when they read the minutes that were supposed to be the draft conclusion of this working group, these members who participated in this evaluation group say: “When I read this minutes, I wonder if we were even at the same meeting. I will sum up my thinking on a few sentences."This is the representative of the Ministry of the Economy: [[…]] »First, complete number manipulation. Despite the fact that, in February, there were 14 days less skiers than the year before — a drop from 361,000 in 2010 to 235 thousand in 2011 — you insist, says the Ministry of Education and Sport, that it is only one percent. You can calculate this for yourself, as is the average drop that was 20%, with the main drop in the whole year being the power to attribute to this hole at the time of the holiday as well. Secondly, it is not mentioned anywhere that the number of Slovenian nights in Austria increased by 12% in February and 11% in Italy. Thirdly, despite the agreement and the conclusion of the meeting, you have completely ignored in the minutes the fact that the members of the working group on the evaluation of the effects of winter holidays have proposed that the members of this evaluation group should be invited to reintroduce the Minister's holiday within two dates, which was on 3 May when the Minister could react and was not delayed. Fourthly, on the incompleteness of data in your opinion – according to the Ministry – a thorough analysis is still missing from the data before 1993, which, according to the Ministry of Economy, is not relevant for decision-making in 2011. They also later point out that the assessment is only for cable operators, without accommodation, without services, without other matters moving between €4 million and €5 million, it is said, not negligible, but obviously in this government a million up, a million down represents no problems and this is a side issue. That's why we're where we are. There is also no comment in this report from the Ministry of Education and Sport that the only Alpine country that has winter holidays in one time, according to a new one, of course – even a colleague of Gaber, who was once a minister, did not introduce this – and in other countries, at least in three, and there was never a question of how in these countries could [[Austria, Italy, Germany, France]] The study shall be conducted without delay. As for the competitiveness of school systems in those countries compared to Slovenia, you probably know better than we do. This is the position of the Ministry of Economy, which probably also received by the Minister for Reading. Here I have the position of the Community of Slovenian natural health resorts, which said in an email that was sent: "Dear, I fully agree with Mr Marjan Hribar's remarks. Under such a unilaterally presented and non-transparent report, I am not prepared to sign and reject it." [[…]] The first line already says everything. The working group is expected to consider the final report and has not been presented at all. The report also does not contain any arguments presented by the evaluation group. “I suggest that members of the working group who are not from the Ministry of Education and Sport...” [[…]] — from which the Chair of these evaluation groups was the “... to prepare an objective and relevant report on all available data and to inform the Minister of State...” – This was then Mrs Radic – “... and the general public. I believe that only in this way will we really be able to show the harmful effects of the single introduction of winter holidays." That's an interesting point. It is not a ski section, but is a medical part – it is said to be the Community of Slovenian natural health resorts. Here is an email sent by the president of this group, Boris Černivec, dated May 13th, after the meeting of this evaluation group. He says: "The content you sent on the proposal for the final report shows your dissatisfaction and the idea that you will prepare your report."said all the other members were passing it on to him. He says, "The report's proposal was based on a note we wrote at the last meeting." Hereinafter: "The amended updated report is annexed, and I will also send it to the Minister." Then there's another sentence that says, "I'm sorry we didn't manage to write the final report together." Then why do we have an evaluation committee, a group called the Minister, who can't even write the final report together? And he says, "I thank you for your cooperation. "Beautiful greeting, Boris Chernivec." Interesting. On the part of GAZ cable operators, the same data as that of the evaluation group and the minister still states that there was no failure. They say: "It is still not true that the same number of Slovenians has been skiing abroad as the rest of the years since Austria and Italy record between 11% and 14% more Slovenian guests than last year." Another opinion that has come and that the minister also has and is probably also held by someone else. On the side of the local tourist organization Kranjska Gora, where he also says: "Honored. The report is essentially no different from the original version...« — this is the report on which they made comments – “... and our comments have not been taken into account. I wonder if we're just puppets or even invisible ghosts? Personally, I have a very bad feeling that we've wasted a lot of hours and hours working. We have made comments to the report within a given time limit and please take these comments into account." Mrs. Mirjam Žerjav. Very interesting. Fourth group meeting of the group for the evaluation of uniform winter holidays, appointed by the Minister of Education and Sport, 3 May 2011 at the Ministry of Education and Sport. He writes: "The statistics of the tourism economy are collected which discusses the arrivals and accommodations of domestic and foreign guests for 2011". Second: »Data on the number of visitors on Slovenian ski resorts for the last six years. The Annex will be completed by March 2011.« Third conclusion: "Members of the working group representing tourism or local communities..." – these were the majority, except for the chairman, who was from the Ministry of Education and Sport – “... on the basis of data we propose the reintroduction of two weeks winter holidays.” This is a record of the evaluation group requested by both the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Education and Sport appointed by the Ministry of Education and Sport to prepare an assessment and evaluate the data from the shared season. They did it, they made a record, but it wasn't addressed to anyone, obviously. Here they propose the reintroduction of two-week holidays and also indicate how many fewer arrivals, departures, daily cards, etc.; data in February show a drop of 20.9% on skis compared to the same year before – if this is negligible for someone, this is their problem. The response of the Community of Slovenian Natural Medicine Centres to the article in Dnevnik, which I quoted earlier, says – this is Iztok Altbauer, Director – "Ministry: Single winter holidays were not harmful", was the title. The article restates a clear lie that losses in the economy have not occurred. “I believe that all those who have actually suffered economic damage should, with another press release, deny the allegations.” [[…]] They're doctors, not ski resorts. And there's something else about this data that the evaluation group has produced. So the exit was not only in winter sports centres, it was also in health resorts and it was also in the rest of the tourist economy. And if we are blinded by the fact that this is a negligible part of our economy, then I do not know how this country will solve the problems in advance. And if the minister who is the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia is talking about our children and users of some services going abroad to benefit from this, I think he is giving a very poor direction from this point of view. A few more facts, which were mentioned on the Committee on Education and Sport when Mr Boris Černivec, when the topic was again addressing the issue of the single term of winter holidays, said: "It is true that the subject of winter holidays begins in 2009 when many initiatives came to the Ministry, particularly by parents and those who are in any way professionally associated with school, to change the term of winter holidays. The Minister appointed the working group, this working group examined several options and finally proposed two amendments to the Minister within this Regulation as an implementing regulation." He later says: "... after the public debate, the publication of the material in the Official Journal and in accordance with this Regulation also the notification of schools of the change in the term of winter holidays, and only after all the events which were carried out did comments appear in the public, in particular the comments on the economy and tourism." No, the Ministry of the Economy, the Office of Tourism reacted to this as soon as it was published. And he says that “... negative reactions have arisen and the Minister has promised to appoint a working group to which he has invited different target groups, particularly from the economic and economic sectors, to gather various data to show what the effects of the changed winter holidays period are.” That is true, but these groups of ministers do not take into account in their actions; it is said that we have paid and recruited people who have been engaged for several months in obtaining data, and have also made a relevant proposal on the basis of these data, which the Ministry simply did not take into account. Nor was the minutes available for review, for the chairman refused to allow the text to be entered or evidently allowed the position of that group to be published, which was clearly in conflict with what the Minister had intended or set himself as a goal. In this response to Mr Črnivec, who was at this meeting of the Committee, it is said on 30 June, and he also says: "After about half a year after we saw what information we can access, after the Ministry ordered two studies at Ninamedia on winter vacation time, the Minister decided that the amendment of the rules was not going to be made, which means that even in the new school year, schools were informed of the single winter holidays starting on the third Monday of February." Thus, on the basis of all the discussions we had in the National Assembly and the State Council, we have appointed an evaluation group that has properly addressed the subject, but the Minister has decided on the basis of the Ninamedia survey, as stated in the Magnography of the Committee on Education and Sport, where I was not personally present, but is available in the National Assembly and can be read and quoted. Thus, after six months of seeing which data could be accessed and not appreciated by the Minister, he decided to do a survey at Ninamedia, where some replied that they were not interested in winter holidays and decided that the holidays would also be uniform in the school year 2011/2012. So, why did we then appoint a working group, discuss a few times in the National Assembly on committees and also in the State Council if, on the basis of a survey it considers, the Minister decides to remain on a one-time basis? If this is the expertise referred to in previous comments, I do not know – we can ask ourselves that. However, in those materials to which we had access, there were in fact more discussions about how “rompiers” can also be cancelled and make two-week winters, and similar, I would say, professional solutions, but not on the basis of a survey conducted by Ninamedia, but on some professional basis. And it would be interesting to hear what it means in terms of the school process in terms of positive acquisitions this single term compared to two-week separate or joint holidays. So I still insist that, on the basis of today's debate, we propose, although we probably do not have the business authority to re-decision on this. However, this debate can be very instructive for the future, and I really wonder what the Ministry of Education and Sport is leading, that it can be so sovereign in this area and in our country that it does not take into account any other ministries that may have indirect and direct damage at the expense of its decisions, and that, at the expense of one handful of those who may or may not have been deprived in the previous case when the holidays were in two parts, it takes a decision and thus reduces the conditions of most citizens, the majority of the tourism economy, although you are still holding your eyes and sending and conducting surveys, and the data that the evaluation group that the minister appointed has in some way brought to the table remains, the facts remain, so that this decision was still uneconomic, unwise and does not bring any benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, before a relatively few audiences, I will not be embarrassed to admit that, at a moment of weakness, I have accepted the initiative of the Head of the Zares Group, Mr Yuri, and I agree to present the position of the Group of Members in the debate on the answer to the question of Daniel Krivec, and I am attending a debate which, in my opinion, is quite infertile and will not contribute to anything, but also by the rules of procedure, nothing can be done. Nevertheless, I will present the position of the Group of Members. It remains the way it was in the coalition, as it is in the opposition. Our position, that is, the position of former Minister of Economic Affairs Mag. You also know Darje Radic. Simply put, we believe that the introduction of a single winter holiday was unnecessary, useless, that it did not solve anything important, and that it made things more complicated, without need, and especially took a lot of time. At a time when I was alone, it was a long time ago, Minister, I had problems or we had always divided problems into two kinds — problems that we had chosen or that I had chosen to solve, and problems that they had chosen me to solve. They were always harder, of course. So I wonder how all the difficult and less pressing problems that are objective in education with this or any other minister choose exactly the problem of single holidays – in my opinion the problem that was, I don't know, the 400th on the agenda. Everything else is probably more important: books, textbook funds, all these things are actually relevant, and this is a relatively irrelevant problem. I am sure, and in the parliamentary group, when we discussed this, we have somehow come to the idea that in the mental calendar of this society, not even the nation, this belief of double, shared holidays, as it is said that spring comes in, that it was somehow in our natural calendar and that, apart from some large, some special partial interests there was no pressure, at least we did not notice, I apologize for the necessity of change. And we thought this was coming along a natural path. I don't know when it was done, whether in this regime or in the previous regime, I don't know yet, it was kind of working and there's no need to change that. We have not seen any major pressures for change or troubleshooting. But I believe that doesn't suit everyone and that it suits someone else. Above all, I think that everyone is overreacting in this debate, either here or in the media, and that lobbyists are on both sides. It is certainly logical that from the point of view of the tourism industry, if the holidays are shared, there can be no doubt that this is better for the tourism industry. At the same time, however, we must say that if the tourism industry is cited as having problems or that it is in crisis because of the absence of shared holidays, we must reject this. Because if this changes, it is necessary to adapt and develop some other options. But I would say again that at the same time I cannot believe that parents and 7,000 students are a problem because they are shared vacations. Perhaps one of these students was very happy if he did not have to go on vacation with his parents, but he could have gone differently. We're all different, and they're different. So I really don't see the relevance of this problem here. However, I admit that it probably worked here at least to a certain extent the self-interesting prophecy that Minister Lukšič – which he "went away" – said; that when he cried out in a horrible hurricane, how it would be amused, it happened that then people really went somewhere else and it was actually more empty than it could have been. All these studies, which have now been quoted by colleagues on the one hand and on the other; this is a question of the perspective of reading and studying, but they need to be cleaned up by some seasonal influences – whether it is snow or not, whether prices are changed or not, or whether there are better alternatives available to holidays in the snow, or whether the economic crisis affects this or not. All these seasonal influences were gone. And these studies are not cleared of these seasonal influences, so there is nothing to say about them except that everyone can show them in their own way. In short, I'd end up here because I don't have much to say. In my opinion, this is one of the more irrelevant problems that the Minister has addressed and has not solved something that would indeed be a problem in this school field. I would conclude with Minister Gabra, who was very gallant when he was asked, and this gallantness is that he imagined and said he wouldn't do it. I wouldn't do that either, and I wouldn't do a lot of things either. And I don't think you had to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Guido Kres will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For more than one year, the theme of a single winter holiday has been buzzing with spirits, both in public, between the representatives of tourism and between us, elected representatives of the people, and representatives of the executive branch of the government. As early as last June, the Ministry of Education and Sport had adopted three amendments to the regulations that had established a uniform term for winter school holidays, which caused resentment in the public, particularly at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Mountain Centres and more. The negative climate regarding the single term of winter school holidays continued until January of this year, when an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy was convened at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, assessing the consequences of the single holiday period on the Slovenian economy. At this meeting, Members of the Slovenian People's Party pointed out that such major changes, which directly or indirectly affect virtually every Slovenian citizen, should be approached slowly, carefully and on the basis of thorough professional analyses. Let us take a look at the history of the winter school holidays. The Ministry of Education and Sport has decided to combine winter school holidays on the basis of the fact that the decline in birth rates has recently reduced the number of pupils and students compared to the number of pupils and students at a time when the distribution of winter holidays has been established for two periods and for two areas: approximately 5,000 pupils per generation. The Ministry also based its decision on the fact that due to the combined winter holidays, both schoolchildren and secondary school students from the same families will be able to spend their holidays with their parents. The decision of the Ministry should also be agreed by representatives of the Association of Directors and representatives of parents. The biggest opposition to the single term of winter holidays came from Slovenian cable drivers who warned of the great crowd in Slovenian ski resorts, in hotels and on roads, reduced safety on skis, reduced road safety, poorer service to guests due to capacity overload, etc. What actually happened, we could see for ourselves. There was no crowd on the ski slopes, nor on the roads, nor was there any accidents. Even the fears of cablesmen, at least in the part of the downfall of skis, have not been realized, but their predictions of a large loss of income have partly come true. True, the latter was not as high as they feared, but the fallout was nevertheless, which is certainly not good for the Slovenian economy. The figures of the Statistical Office show a 2% drop in the overnight stays of domestic guests in February 2011 compared to February 2010. The cable drivers calculated that in February 2011 as many as 130,000 ski tickets were sold less than a year earlier. In addition, we believe that the Slovenian People's Party Members have contributed a single term for winter holidays, which we believe is not the only reason to reduce the number of skiers. The reasons should probably also be found at high prices of ski tickets on ski slopes, in the fact that there is much more to be gained abroad at a similar price in order to reduce the number of foreign skiers and to conclude that skiing has simply become too expensive and that many people, especially in the current economic crisis, cannot afford it anymore. We must not ignore the time in February 2011, which was quite dry, and the temperatures were also higher than the long-term average. Therefore, the reason for the loss of income is more, and the single holiday term is only one of them, but according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party it is not negligible, but it is not decisive. In addition, it may be noted that the visit to health care during the first two months of this year has even increased compared to the same period last year. The Ministry of Education and Sport, or he already knows the Minister, said in response to his colleague Krivec's question, that two Ninamedia polls, which exceeded the one-time deadline for all Slovenia, were decisive in order to maintain a uniform term for winter holidays. The Minister adds that a thorough study on the behaviour of people during winter holidays, which would give comprehensive results on the spillover of income between individuals and tourism industries, would cost between 100 and 150 000 euros, which is about the same amount that the state budget loses on VAT if 1 million euros were spent abroad during winter holidays. Which solution, then, is better? In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the issue of a single holiday term is very complex and, as has already been said in the beginning, requires a thorough analysis. Not just something on public opinion polls that are sometimes not entirely objective and do not provide relevant information. This year, last February, the most black scenarios announced by the tourist workers did not come true, which, as I mentioned earlier, is due to several factors. Will the black scenarios come true in 2012? Maybe. It has to be acknowledged that some tourist workers, especially cableway workers in February, had a significant income loss, which has undoubtedly been the result of a single winter holiday period, so it would be better to re-establish the situation before the regulation was amended, i.e. after a week of winter holidays in two periods. Families who want to spend their holidays together, but in our opinion, they will not be deprived because their parents have had an excellent and positive chance of leaving their child behind for five days at the time of their previous announcement without a reason. This means that, despite two school holidays, all members of the family can spend their holidays together without difficulty, even if one of the children is at school in Maribor and the other in Ljubljana. It is therefore too late to arrange two winter holidays for this year's 2011/2012 school year, as the school year calendar cannot be amended. We are Members of the Slovenian People's Party, however, convinced that a decision will have to be taken for the next school year, with which everyone will be satisfied: both children, parents and tourist workers. According to our assessment, this decision must be in favour of two winter school holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you for your words, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Regarding the issue of the School Calendar Regulation or its modification or non-return in the winter holiday segment, i.e. whether a single winter holiday term or a two-term winter holiday is allocated, the views and opinions of the Slovenian public and, as Members of this National Assembly and the sent-off groups also show, are different. The matter was also addressed at the joint meetings of the Education Committee and the Committee on the Economy, where we agreed somewhere that any decision on any change in the school calendar regarding winter holidays should be given an adequate analysis of the effects of single or non-unit winter holidays. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the decision can only be made by appropriate expert analyses to be carried out for this competent person, both in the field of economy, education, tourism and elsewhere. In any event, it cannot serve as a relevant basis for any telephone survey of La Ninamedia and even less the arguments of some parents' statements from random parental meetings with a person or minister at the school ministry. In any case, such an initiative or parental desire can be completely legitimate, but it cannot be the only basis for determining winter holidays because, as I am aware, parents are divided in their views, including children — primary schoolchildren and high school children. Even more confusion is caused by the fact that the data on ski crowds, on the one hand, on the millions of losses on the one hand, on the increase in ski profits, and on the incredible increase in tourism revenue as well as on the industry. Some competent institutions that should have accurate economic calculations and data, whether they have them or do not feel worthy – say the Chamber of Commerce – to obtain them or guide them. Thus, ad hoc information is collected through various colleges, tourist agencies, hotel complexes, ski resorts, or non-professional ad hoc surveys or telephone inquiries, or, as the above mentioned above, from informal conversations with parents at random meetings. In short, until you provide us with expert analysis and professionally obtained relevant data, it is really difficult for us in the Slovenian National Party to decide what works for or for the benefit of or even only those to whom the holidays are intended, i.e. for primary and secondary school children, and partly for their parents indirectly. And here we don't just think about skiing and other winter sports that are getting less and less kids lately. And if such a social, economic and financial situation continues to continue, it is certainly not to be afraid of excessive crowds in Slovenian ski resorts; but those who have money are from more wealthy families, or they prefer to choose skiing abroad: Austria, Switzerland, Italy, where services are offered as a whole better and regrettably so. We have come so far that only the children of the chosen, the social elite, will be able to afford the ski. We would rather talk about this here and for most Slovenian children about much more important things – painful knowledge that they are victims of inhuman social dispersion and many injustices that seal their youth. But if I go back to the winter vacation deadline and the school calendar in general. Various issues and dilemmas have been raised in the Slovenian National Party in the processing of this, such as: duration of holidays, accommodation, for example, the space of autumn holidays and their broader meaning or even prudence, as well as designations. So let's say the issue of autumn vacations, which are named after the calendar first on the agenda at the end of October or at the beginning of November, are also called “rompier’s” holidays. The name “ Potato” comes from German-speaking countries, where the children of farmers were released from schools in the fall for about a week or more to help produce crops, including potatoes, in their home village. How can you now say that this is still worth calling a “roast” holiday in Slovenia, for whom? The study of the 2010/2011 school calendar highlighted the third option of a solution, decisions on this issue. This year, let's say the Reformation Day 31 falls. 10th, Day of Remembrance of the Dead 1. 11. and then follow three days of these autumn holidays. So, wouldn't it be more reasonable to say winter vacation in a single period to extend to two weeks, because the time of the end of October opens the question of why these few days of vacation in early November at all. It's not skiing time yet, it's not bathing time at sea; it's not like it's a lost day in a school calendar. It is the holiday season, such as the day of reform and the day of remembrance of the dead, then the previous weekend is here, so it is four days off for primary and secondary school students; it would be good for the ministry to think ahead, but there will be no conflict, or a two-term or one-time vacation. Finally, take the example in some other European countries, where they give, if you want, even skiing and family reunions with children who do not just go to school in their home country, and is 14 days in winter, I think, more useful than these few – 3 or 4 days in November. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Gregor Golobič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Sylven Tiny. [[He's not here.]] Excuse me, Mr. Guido Kres. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. It is clear to all of us that we are not going to make a decision today on a uniform or divided term for winter holidays. For the current school year, as I have already said, this is a closed story, but for the future we can talk about it, and this debate is also meant for today. It was said that both representatives of the Association of Directors and representatives of parents would agree with the decision of the Ministry. There was a survey based on Ninamedia. It was said that all new things cost too much, too expensive. I think it is possible to do a very high-quality research within the Ministry of Education, without any intermediaries, with a direct question to the parents. Parents of those 160 plus 72 — 230 thousand children who would simply ask if they are single or shared vacations, without any additional questions, whether they go on vacation or not, whether they care or not. And that would be relevant information. After what I've seen today, it's just a manifest loss on the part of the economy, a financial loss. However, there was no speech about saving the Ministry of Education and Sport if there was any savings in this way. I'd like to remind you that our parents got used to it. I too was completely satisfied with the holidays at the time when my children were taking advantage of holidays in the way they were, and there was no problem. So it could be listened to in this part of the economy because it shows loss, while on the other hand it does not show savings – at least it was not said to be. I support you to talk about this one more time. I would like, and I think, that the Ministry of Education and Sport is only able to carry out this survey through its employees, to get the results of this survey, and to meet those who have decided to do so, either on a shared or weekly basis. I think that would be the right thing to do. Even when I was talking to my parents in my district and with my principals and teachers, I must say that my parents wanted — at least those who turned to me — that it was unnecessary for us to go on a one - time basis. But I can't say it's mercurial. That's what I heard. If we had a survey, there'd be something else and something better to say about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Luksic, Minister for Education and Sport, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u132	President, thank you so much for your word. Here we have heard a number of views on what would be good, what should be done, what was not done. Once again, it seems important to know that there is a debate on priorities. What is the priority of school policy? In my opinion, the school calendar is not a priority of school policy. In the view of the 34 Members who voted in favour of the SDS, this is the main priority of the school policy. In Croatia, the Minister of Tourism announced how the school calendar would run. It seems that the priority of the SDS is to slowly announce the school calendar first, and then turn schools into tourist shops. One part of it was already running this way. For example, in 2006, the previous government abolished the validation of work volumes. You're having a flood today. Why? Because every year a new work union comes, with a new price and so on, everything at the expense of the parents. The proposals they have and are on the table are to allocate winter holidays and other holidays such as the place, one or those cableways, or, as they say, to a large economy, where we have clarified on the Committee on the Economy what is the loss, what is the loss of planned income and so on. [[…]] Even the Minister of the Economy, the former, had to learn a lesson so that he could distinguish what tourism is, what winter tourism is, what cables are, what the economy is all about. Because in the beginning, if you remember, they talked about losing the economy here and they didn't take into account that people's incomes are being distributed; they say where they're spending their income, they're going back to the economy as a whole, so people are using what they deserve because the economy is definitely not on the losing side of the economy, it can be on the losing side of the economy. What I owe here is once again to the National Assembly – this time, of course, the National Assembly, earlier committees, where colleagues have already heard it, is not going in their heads – I have interviewed three heads of institutes, economics. One is from Maribor and two are from Ljubljana. I asked them whether, according to the methodologies managed by economists, they could determine how to move to income flows in individual sectors – week or fourteen days – and they replied, “no” Why can't you? Because the data is collected for a month or for a trimester. Mr. Krivec, check it out for a month or three months! So you can't tell for a week, not for 14 days. Why is 1993 important? Because of the fact that the colleague Gaber, the minister mentioned at the time, reduced his vacation from one month, it is said, twice in 14 days, to 14 days, twice in one week during the winter season. And if at that time the winter economy could have survived, when it lost a shipment for 14 days, an alleged shipment of children and parents on the ski slopes, then it could be now, because it turned out to be, of course, that's what happened. So all these fears, which have been brought forward since June and are now being given, have already proved to be empirically verified. There were no losses, and this decision proved to be good, for good, and there is no reason to change it. We just don't change good decisions. If we go back again. The key question is, of course, what is now important for this country. Today we have had a meeting of the Government for the first time since it has no powers, and if the state remains in this situation for a long time, it will be disastrous not to be able to make decisions, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. And I have to tell you, I'm in a terrible situation when I'm looking at how much of a debate is going on here about a united or divided winter vacation at a time when the state doesn't have a government, when it doesn't know when the elections will be when the problem is, whether we'll be able to fund this education that we have next year. So when we face difficult questions, the SDS Members here suggest that the ministry reconsider this. A ministry or a minister who has no mandate since Tuesday. I know the rules of procedure, this has been placed on the agenda, but it would be easy for the proposaler to come up and say, "in view of the situation that the Government has fallen, and given that there are several important issues before this country, I am withdrawing the proposal for a debate," and this has not happened. So, the key question at this point is whether we understand the real situation, and I see that the SDS do not understand the real situation, because, after a vote of non-trust to the Government, they are still here addressing some requests to the Minister to consider something that he can no longer do, even if a potential mandate holder fails to form a government and my mandate goes on to a bad infinity. He can't because he doesn't have such powers. Of course, if I understand the matter differently, that there is no ambition here to take power, but that it is understood that the SD will be given a mandate again, then of course we will examine this question if it is so meant, and then we will look again at what will happen during the holidays. And if it happens by chance that the ski resorts have a loss to be too full, then we will surely react as the government did in 1980 when it first divided the holiday into two terms. But that was then because the population grew because the roads were different because there was less skiing, etc. However, I do not want one part of Slovenia to press in 1979 – remember that assassination – and in 1980 and forgets that many changes have taken place in the meantime, among other things you voted down the government. So, Mr President, I would like Slovenia to find out in all the political options, that things are changing dramatically, that we somehow attach our minds to the real situation and start dealing with real problems, and that we also put real options in the political battle. This is said to be one, two, three weeks of winter vacation and then one, two, three and I don't know what year it is, and it is a key problem for all the friends who want to do business, or school policy, as we have led it – calm, thoughtful, in agreement with all the key players. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposaler Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I have to react. I think it's obvious - the minister is already on vacation because they don't do all the reasonable things to him, because in the end he said we proposed a change in the SDS. Obviously, then, we have an impact on the fact that we have united the holidays into one; I don't know where he got this idea. The change of holiday was proposed by the Minister and that is why this is being discussed, and this consideration was proposed in June, when the regular meeting of the National Assembly was held, and we cannot withdraw this matter and the Minister is obliged by all the Rules of Procedure, to answer questions to the legislation. I don't know what that feels like to him right now. And that he is now asking this question as irrelevant — that is what he should ask himself when he made that change. I hope he listens and will hear this a few more times, and he has heard from all the parliamentary groups, and he himself has said that it is important to deal with important issues in the field of education. What, then, did he need a change of vacation time, I'd say, a system that lasted 20 years, as he himself admitted? I don't know where he's from, I'd say, a moral attitude to emulate those of us who asked the question, why did he make this change to go into some business in the field of tourism? I hope that this is what all economic operators in this room are listening to, because these questions were not only asked by my own littleness, but also asked by other Members. Mrs. Potrata, you can be a fool, but things aren't as simple as you imagine! And it will obviously take this country a long time to get to the green branch if you have a slight loss when millions are lost in this country. Apparently, the minister doesn't care about this, and in the end, he throws the blame on the one who asks the question. It's a really fucked-up thing in this room. I have to react, and I think the minister has taken it too far. We have not highlighted this problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party; it has changed the way winter holidays are carried out and thus caused a great revolution. Obviously, in your heads, you don't know what's going on between people, and it's not as uniform as he in two Ninamedia polls imagines. You've accepted this late, so the government has fallen, and you have to take it upon yourself, and the minister is obviously already with his brain on vacation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u135	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rudolf Petan? Get ready, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, I would like to reiterate once again that this question was raised in June and now the answer. We don't set the agenda, we set the leadership of the National Assembly. And if there is something wrong with today's consideration, then the President of the National Assembly should react, saying, "We will not talk about this point," but this is not the case. So the president of the National Assembly is not guilty here, and neither are we. We have only reacted to what this government has done, and now that this government no longer has a confidant, it is not our problem. If you have bit yourself in the government to the last, then the opposition can only watch, the opposition has fewer votes than the majority. We can watch; if you are united, then you could vote, and not now report to us. The next thing we were told by the Minister that obviously for the Slovenian Democratic Party, school holidays are the most important thing. It's not true, because we haven't changed it, it's changed by the government on a proposal from the Ministry, and we've reacted. This now means that not for us, the opposition, but for the government or the ministry, holidays are the most important if there was any change. But Sam said that we should deal with important problems. Obviously, then, this is an important problem for him, because he changed it, and we just reacted. We're just reacting, and we come from the field, and we're farmers after all, if not otherwise. And what people think, where the economy is, even tourism, from there we come, what they have expressed problems, problems, and, I don't know, our closest ones can be employed in the tourist economy and they don't care whether they have jobs or not, whether they have tourists or not, because they live off it. [[…]] That's one. Secondly, when the Minister has also revealed to us the distrust and that there are different situations and what we are discussing – forgive me, Parliament is working, Parliament has everything, it has a President, it has ninety members again, it has one time gone, Parliament is working. Parliament can normally work, but the debate cannot say that now that the Government does not have a confidant, it is unnecessary. What is needed is that we are likely to return to that question. And if the elections are going to be early now, that government is going to have to face this problem, and if damage is done here, then something needs to be changed, if not, let it stay the way it is. However, I would like to say something: this proposal to introduce one-week joint holidays was a surprise for everyone, for children, for parents and for the tourism economy. Why? Because the two-week vacation was a loose end. They were not from the previous term of office of the previous government, but since then it has been, I don't know what year it was. That was well done. And now something has changed, and you know that the worst thing about a regulated economy is that something changes overnight. And here it has changed, and certainly it's not good for the economy, for tourism, for capacity, it brings in some mess, some confusion, some uncertainty. And if you want, if a few hundred thousand potential users of capacity appear at once in one week instead of in fourteen days, there can certainly be crowding or doubting whether it makes sense to do it here at all. And I'm sure it was also a consequence that some, I don't know how many, went abroad. But now we've made a profit for our economy if people have gone abroad, so maybe there was no traffic jam because everyone was abroad on the road, and in Italy in Switzerland, what do I know where else? There were probably then crowded, not here, and now we're to tell us that we're some kind of economic exposition; I'd say if someone was an exposé of an economy, it's the one who went to make a run for it, then we can see that the benefit of that was foreign centres, centres abroad, and travel agencies. Can we now say that the Government is an exposition of foreign tourist centers and tourist agencies? I wouldn't say that, but that's what the benefits of it are. Hotels plan for the year ahead, and if in the middle of the season it happens to you that you crash some stuff when you're planning on not being able to accept strangers, because you'd rather take home schoolchildren, students, their parents, then it's definitely some kind of stress. And one more thing. If I understood the Minister correctly, he said it was difficult to determine within one week whether it was a loss or not, because it was found monthly and three months ago. How, then, did he come to realize that there was no harm? Then you can't figure that out either, and then everything was pulled to the hair. One more thing. Dear Mrs. Majdi Patrati. If I understood it correctly, then she said it would be good in this sense substantively now, to leave school autonomy also in its work, and that education is not in the role of economy. Okay, autonomy in their content is yes, but there are some things that can't be autonomous. Finally, education is also part of the state system and education is financed from the budget and contributions from the economy are coming into the budget. Where do I come from? That is, I cannot do what I think – you give me the money and you can go "sugrund". That's not how it works. We are a society where education is part of society and education is financed from economic opportunities. Then why say there's no money for some programs if you're so autonomous in school if you're not dependent on anyone? From the economy, from the money that comes from the economy, and then redistributes itself for those urgent things, and education is essential, but it depends on the economic potential, on the economic potential of the country, and also the minister is at the end when he already forgot that he said that we should not interfere, he said, "if we can finance some things". Me how? You're autonomous, because you don't depend on anyone. The money will come. He also realizes that the economy is giving money for everything that is not an economy, and the money is being redistributed, and the government has this task, gratefully or ungratefully, but no one in the government can say, "we are autonomous" or, "this area autonomously can do whatever it wants" and he doesn't care if the tourism economy gets hurt. Everywhere. Why do you think they don't have a single vacation in Germany? Bavaria has a time, Essen has another time. Yes, because they're helping the tourist economy. It's either because or because they realize it's an important source. If a few 10 thousand, 100,000 potential users of tourist services are released, this is something that needs to be taken into account. If ever, we should remember now that we have fallen economic activity, that we have less money in the budget, so we need to have a balance. And we accepted the balance this week because economic activity is lower. This is said to depend on the economy and we must help the economy where it can, where it is more than good will. And whether it's a one-week holiday or a two-week holiday, it's an important question, and here's the good will, whether we're going to help our tourist economy, including the other, not just the tourist's, because, after all, food and everything else is being spent here, so I'm not going to mention it. This is good will and we can help our economy with good will, but we need money in the budget. That's right. That's right. But we're talking about autonomy. And, of course, once again – we have not raised this issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have only responded to what the Government has done. Whether this government has powers or not, you'll have to deal with it in your own house, the ones that made up the government. But this question was raised several times, and last time our colleague Krivec put it in June. Now it is the order of the day, just as the leadership of the National Assembly has judged. Apparently, it wasn't possible before, so it is. And now to tell us, by the minister, that this is the most important problem for us for him was because he changed the order. [[…]] Of course, I support such a debate, whether the Government has powers or not, if nothing else, it will be good for the next government to face the exact same problem. And if we discuss this today, it'll probably be a little easier. And I support the efforts to help the tourism economy and our country in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes, get Mr. Milenko Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr Minister, who has sadly left us, must have been in a hurry to ski somewhere on Austrian or Italian glaciers, which is unattainable for ordinary citizens and citizens, given that he has been burning all along. [[...]] I wanted to thank this minister because I come from Gorenjska, which borders both Italy and Austria, for the service he has done to them by changing the holiday mechanism or reducing it to one week. In fact, we can turn things around in one way or another, but everyone I spoke to at every ski resort or ski resort in the mountains told the same story. Not only was the loss of income evident, even during the week of vacation, there was a simple reason why people were convinced that such a rush would be so long that there would be so many waitings that even those who would have come would have preferred to make decisions if they could, and they went to Italy or the Austrian ski resorts. This was the actual effect of this story, and I must say that I am very much following the Minister's reaction, which is probably symptomatic of the way this government works, because now it seems they are counting on what a general commitment the Government has fallen. Of course not. The real problems are here, and surely the most real problem is the one the minister has overlooked. This is a question of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Slovenian economy. However, this is the real problem that everyone should always have before each other and deal with as much attention as possible and seek appropriate solutions. Because Slovenian tourism, like the entire Slovenian economy, is at this moment more sensitive than it has ever been in the past because of the catastrophic economic failure of the current authorities. It is more exposed to competition, on the other hand, because we have entered the Schengen area and the border is no longer. No more obstacles, no more problems. Each free choice where he goes, there is no limit, no other problem of this type, as has been the case in the past, and, of course, competition is much sharper now. And in these circumstances to experiment, you know, but the Commission, which the Minister himself has set up, has unitedly supported the maintenance of the two-week holiday model so far, because it would be in favour of tourism or small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which has a majority in tourism. [[…]] And this is the engine of every high-quality economy. But the Minister has made his own decision. He decided to experiment; the effect, I said. For Austrians and Italians phenomenally good and for the Slovenian economy unfortunately bad. And it all reminds me a little of that old anecdotes when the farmer came to Comrade Cardell and said, "Lord Kardelj, my cow is worse, what shall I do?" And he said, "Give her two pages of Marx's capital to chew every day." And he did it for a week, and he came back and said, "Mr. Cardell, but my cow is getting worse." And he said to Kardelj, "Then my collected writings are four pages a day, and there's nothing else to give." And he came in the third week ago and said, "The cow is already pure hyn." And he said to him, "Then give me nothing for a few days." Then he comes three days later, all angry and says, "Mr. Cardell, the cow is dead!" He says, "Oh, my God, I've had so many good ideas." You know, the Slovenian economy is much too expensive, it is the basis for everything we do in practice, it is the basis for a social state, for a quality of life, to experiment with it in this way. And in doing so, we supported all those who already operate because of the incomparably more capable governments in entrepreneurship with a more favourable environment. After all, let me draw your attention to one more aspect. Slovenian tourism also has a heavy burden on payment discipline and a lack of the rule of law, which in fact makes this non-discipline possible. And as it is abroad, you know – whoever messes around a little bit, goes straight to bankruptcy, is taken over by other owners who do more responsible work. But how are things with the rule of law, and we can all take a look. On the most inexorable, let us be honest, the political process concerning Patrio was loudly cried out and referred to one article of the law for so long that the judge had to point out to him that this article of the law was no longer in force at all. So much for our country of law. By the way, at the beginning of this comedy, the Minister of Justice emigrated temporarily to China, where he probably learned about Internet censorship and the introduction of a police state by law, which foresees that he will close young people for three years for copying files from the Internet, which he is also quietly introducing. And then we wonder, with the government's relationship to the Slovenian economy, to development, to youth, to tourism, to sport, to all together, if we are where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, to the few present! The Minister has tactically withdrawn, I doubt he's listening. It is no surprise to me that now that the balance sheet is down, we are discussing another totally flawed measure, which at first sight is not so painful, but the analysis shows that it has also had negative financial consequences. In any event, however, it is difficult for people to endure if they are influenced by established habits. If we remember, far back in history, Roman Emperor Caligula provoked the revolt of the Romans and rebellion because it changed the closing times of trade. I'm going to quote a text from Prešern that accurately describes the state of affairs at the Ministry and the Minister's thinking. In fact, Prešeren said, "He who doesn't know what to say, this is the time to give thanks." And I'm adding this, "When a minister does what he does, he doesn't know, a week's vacation is combined." Mr Gantar mentioned in his delegation's position that there are many problems in the school area. Yes, of course, because we have constantly met with them throughout the mandate. So, the information that one third of Slovenian pupils are wrongly directed towards further education, not to follow the economic needs, is a ticking bomb that will still strike. Then, the award-winning textbook went to the incision, so in Europe the awarded textbook went to the incision because they didn't write it, probably, the minister's friends. The good results of our disciples with whom he boasted are also questionable. However, if we convert knowledge to the price of textbooks or the knowledge achieved into a kilo of books that poor people already have to wear in the first grade, and when you take off a student of the lower classes of elementary school, I would like to ask him whether you are going to Triglav because you have such a full backpack or that bag, then we can calculate that this factor for our country is shamefully low. In neighbouring countries, with far fewer books and, above all, less money, children learn much more. Now there's something else about the consequences of this wrong marriage, the decision to merge vacations in one week. The result was certainly a major drain on the ski slopes; although it was a fall, it is still more than a normal average weekly rhythm. The result was that the route had already been broken in the middle of the day, although conscientious workers were usually in the afternoon and fixed it in the evening. The result was that most of the day’s tourists were afraid of this and because of the Schengen border — because they no longer have to wait at the border, you just drive around, and the nearest skis are half an hour away either in Austria or Italy — went abroad. And we've been carrying our euro, which is getting smaller and smaller, and we've already got our fingers in the wrong consequences of this government again, and we've been carrying that poverty out into neighbouring countries. And why is there such a thing — angering people, doing problems to the economy, the whole industry of workers, because someone who didn't know what to do in this ministry had to do something about it and put out such a measure. Besides whether the government is in emergency or limited business, and so on. Members are still getting a salary and it has to be earned, so we will consider this topic as much as we have time available, and it would be nice for the minister to be here and listen to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Sarah Wheeler. [[She's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Get Bogdan Barovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. So, after we discussed this point together on the Committee on Economics and Culture and Education, after the conclusion was reached that the effects of this change, so-called "excellent" ministers, should be evaluated, we received a report which is more in half of the report to me, because it does not contain all that we have received from the minister through some other channels, but we had to get ourselves – the fourth meeting of the group for the evaluation of the unified winter holidays on the basis of which we should also prepare guidance for the future. This meeting was held at the Ministry of Sport on 3 May and members of the working group proposed the reintroduction of two-week winter holidays. We have not seen this, but we have received a report in which we have been dealing with the period since 1972 on three or four pages, which is probably not relevant to what we are talking about, and that there are fewer children, including the Minister speaking to us or writing down this report, “so he skis only about 30% of the citizens” – some here say how much they have done for sport – and then write down, “in winter vacations, instead of skiing, people have gone to health resorts to a greater extent; both the 1980 survey and the January 2011 survey show that they regularly ski 4% of Slovenians.” According to the information we received, these were from 11% to 14% this February, which is much higher, and those who can calculate the effects of such measures, which the Minister obviously does not know, stated that with each million euros in winter holidays abroad, the state-owned treasury lost about 150 000 euros in VAT revenues and estimated that it had lost at least EUR 1 million in VAT in this year alone. Then we wonder where we are and why we are where we are. I would point out something else, which was said to be necessary for a change in holidays due to the smooth course of teaching, and I am interested in how lessons can then be conducted smoothly in Austria, Italy, Germany and France, which have their holidays arranged differently than after a change in our country. Apparently, we're smarter than everyone else again, and we're making things up, and the minister said he wasn't interested in other areas, he was dealing with his schoolwork and the rest of them were worried. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[He's not here.]] Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Much has been said, it is not possible to respond to everything, but the fundamental question that I quoted in the introduction remains: to whom is the holiday issue intended, and to whom is the holiday intended? Holidays are for children, schooling children and teachers who are. And those who get to know at least a little in the school’s field and who follow the findings of both the health services and other educational services accompanying them then know that they recognize all these services as a huge burnout of teachers and teachers in the workplace. Therefore, evenly deploying work obligations is one of the key reasons for reducing burdens of course. This is from the point of view of teachers and teachers, and it must be said that vacations for them are not vacation time, but that this time is intended for professional supplementation. Now Mr Krivec is teaching Mr Guid Kres again and the question was raised if it was found that there was so much loss for the economy, and said the Minister of Education and Sport correctly that economists from three institutes found that it was impossible to determine for one week that a longer period should be taken, one month, then I don't know where you could find the question that savings should be found at the Ministry of Education. [[…]] The savings are for the whole society, in my opinion, in caring for the better health condition of their teachers and teachers, who remain in a better working condition with equal distribution. As for children, I have already said in the opinion of the parliamentary group that there is a school year divided into uniform periods, nine weeks of study, one week of vacation. Since vacations were now divided into fourteen days, one group had eight weeks of instruction in the first part, then one week of vacation, and then you can calculate — eleven weeks of study and vice versa. When holidays are uniform, periods of nine weeks of study and one week of vacation are periods. Holidays are autumn, Christmas and New Year's, winter, spring and summer. The only summers are longer, all the others are after one week. And because of different interests, different interest groups then came up with this proposal to withdraw the autumn holidays and give them two weeks of winter holidays. But look, he's skiing 27% after polls. Even if you go to see how many of them can afford to go either to health centres or to the sea in the current economic situation, it is not possible to ignore the changed economic situation when talking about the economic effects brought about by holidays. I'm surprised that some things you don't allow to be taken into consideration and judged by the department that is necessary for the quality of schooling. And look how many of us are sitting in this hall today, how many of us have actively participated in this discussion today! And here I agree with Dr Gantar, who asked this question, as with Dr Lukšič, that this debate is actually an empty debate today. We've had working-body sessions, we've had a number of parliamentary questions, we've talked about it, and we don't want to hear it. At the joint meeting of the Committee on Culture, Sport and Youth Education and the Committee on the Economy were in addition to the numerous representatives of interest, that is, the economies, including representatives of such professional associations, directors, student homes, teaching associations, and all of these have confirmed what the Minister for Education and Sport has said, that an initiative has come from this area to change the school calendar. [[...]] And I have no idea how close economic and educational positions will be if the economy sees only its own interest and that in a narrow segment. In particular, the urgent meeting requested by the SDS Group also called for responses to the impact of a single holiday on the economy as a whole; I repeat, tourism is just one segment, it is necessary to take account of everything else, not just that. If it suits us, we are talking about a free economic initiative, a market economy, if it does not suit us, we are lamenting. Let us understand that you did not request, Mr Krivec, neither you nor the SDS Member Group any urgent meeting, nor the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport – at that time without youth – not for the economy. When we found that, say in 2006, there were 433 thousand visitors on the ski slopes and in 2007 only 262 thousand, vacations were shared, let's say there were 146 000 visitors in 2001 and in 2006, for example, I already said the highest number – 433. Thus, the number of ski visitors depends on a number of other factors, not only whether it is a single or a divided term. I think that the greatest economic savings have been made if all economic operators today did not listen to this debate because it is an empty debate. You know, someone would take the time and listen to the story of the old jokes, but it's really a waste of time, and a lot of empty talk has been misleading. Mr Krivec spoke about the fact that no country has a single winter vacation. I quote the data from Eurydice 2011 – I do not take all countries into account, because those who are not considered by the European Union, as are Iceland and Norway and Turkey, and some others – but I tell you, 12 of these countries that have given data have a single winter holiday and 13 countries have shared. If you add this up, it is only 25 countries; Portugal has not given data and for the UK is not data, but only for England and Wales, where there are also joint holidays, are not shared. So you know, when we talk, it's right to quote those data that are real, not those that are just so attracted to hair, and you say, "no country does so." 13 countries have a single holiday. That's it, by the way. And also what you quoted and allegedly saw a discrepancy between the data of the Ministry of Education and Sport and my data. All I did was quote data on foreign nights and the number of working days on cables and the number of skiers. This has nothing to do with what you wanted to prove. I didn't say one thing about income loss. But what I can say with certainty is that 15 million of the planned income is not proven. When we talk about these things, whether this is a priority issue or not, of course, we can ask Members and Members any question, and the question is whether this is really a key issue for education policy. [[…]] I do not see this issue as a key issue for school policy. Those who claim that a stable habit needs to be maintained forget that we have come to this system nine weeks of teaching one week of vacations, that this has changed without being disputed. Of course, individuals object. Individuals will always be, because even we here, as few of us in this room, have different ideas about what is good and what is not. And when I talk about the autonomy of the school field, I am talking about school policy being responsible for education, because school policy is also required for answers if school results are not in line with expectations. No one will demand from the economy the response of our students to various international knowledge tests. I'll say it again. This would be an interesting question of lobbying, so that one segment, one segment of interest, would affect another field, without then having any responsibility for what is happening in this other field. I think it's just that this is where we got carried away. I understand that you are warmed up about this subject, only then would you expect your colleagues and colleagues to be present when these things are discussed, not to write protest letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Krivec has the floor, which is also the last on the list of applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the lesson on correctness, irregularity, what anyone can and cannot do, but the previous debate did not reveal anywhere what this has helped in the school system, except that some teachers who have at different ends or who have children in another place gain something. You talked all the time about the importance to the school space, but not you and not the minister gave no argument as to why it changed. Even more, you said that that's why teachers and teachers will have some more rest, they'll become burdened. After all, they had 14 days of separation, and they were also relieved. These rotations that were, they didn't cross anyone. I see that you are also a great tourist expert and you are teaching us about how we talk only about ski resorts, about winter sports centres. I'd like you to look at the data on the medical and all the influence that this meant. But it is not to be forgotten that this does not only mean a one-year outage, but it will be this season, the next season, etc. In fact, it is worth asking, as my colleague mentioned earlier, is it not what you say to us that we have somehow been abused to ask these questions, What if the ministry has been abused to send some more of our citizens skiing abroad, even so we can turn the matter around. [[…]] Don't forget, one more time. It wasn't me personally, and it wasn't our parliamentary group that changed this school system, but the minister did. And on the basis of the action taken in the wider space as a surprise, as an unannounced matter, we raised the first question, the initiative in time, also found that the Ministry of Economy had reacted in a timely manner, but there was no readiness by the Ministry of Education and Sport. One more time. On the basis of all the strong analyses that you say can be relevant, they are not, in order to avoid all these different interpretations, the position of the Committee on Education and the Committee on the Economy to set up an evaluation group to prepare for the Minister before the next school year takes a new decision this year.This evaluation group has prepared the material and has also given its opinion, and this opinion was that the system should be returned to the previous situation. [[…]] This is what the group wrote down, and I'll give you a copy later if you don't have a record that the evaluation group has prepared. And that is why I wonder how these ministries are dealing with very important things for you, although this is a marginal matter; I agree that there may be 15 million in this year's fallout, but it will be possible in this year's season, and in the next, even 30 million. [[…]] Who would then wonder whether this measure was meaningful or not? Probably a new composition of the National Assembly and a new minister, at least that's how it appears. But it's not a minor matter, and it's not just us that triggered a revolt, it's in all the parliamentary groups. I'm very sorry if you, as president of the Committee on Education and Sport, don't feel that way. All Members wondered what this was all about. And today the minister himself admitted that this was an unnecessary act, and he himself found that it was not necessary to deal with it. Therefore, we might ask ourselves even more who suggested that he should do so. Perhaps he was instructed by tourist centers in Italy and Austria to support this so that more skiers could go. And what's been warned before, maybe by some of our travel agencies. You tell us that we have raised a question on the part of the economy, but the question is the result of some fact, and this fact was that the Minister has changed the school schedule without consulting the others. And once again, I remind you how this school system behaves when the minister says that for no measure in the field of education, he will not carry out any analysis of economic damage. Of course, then we can order a hundred more schools to build, and that's none of anybody's business. This is not how it works. And I will once again give – even in the State Council of the same department the same position, “what is the right of the State Council to deal with such a topic”, and so on. When you read all these things, it is no longer clear why the Minister makes such decisions. And what you are encouraging us to say is that we are being abused by the tourism economy, that the minister has also succumbed to some influences and made such a strange decision not to say anything else. And once again, the evaluation groups were not only required by us, and you, too, requested it as an expert body to draw up guidelines for the next season and for the next school year, and this record exists and the minutes propose to introduce two-week holidays. Why didn't the minister who had the opportunity in this interim period react? No, he ordered two surveys and again decided on the basis of surveys that there is no harm, that this is not meaningful and 2011/2012 we remain on the same one-week joint holidays. Now we can always hypothetically ask ourselves, there will be damage, there will be no harm, but the damage has already occurred, because of these discussions the damage has already been caused. And the tourism economy is failing, the evaluation group stated this in this minutes. And we can't get past that. And if we have a break in the cable industry, 3, 4 million when you get all the data, I believe that certain segments need to be calculated for some sumptuous calculation for several months, but it will be found that there is also a fallout in hotels, in roommates, in other segments of tourism. [[...]] And that's part of the economy, because we don't mix, and we don't just watch cables. And to say that ours are worse that it is better to go abroad is really not appropriate either by us as Members of the National Assembly or by the Minister to evaluate our own supply and our own economy in this way, and this is a key part of the problem. Certain guests who have now decided to go abroad will consume this in the coming years, thereby damaging our economy in the long term. And it is not true that only ski slopes have been affected; the data clearly shows that there has been a decline, but we will not talk about numbers, but every million or every guest who is lost is lost and beyond that fact we cannot. And then all the measures and talking about tourism being a meaningless opportunity, because on the other hand, we take a contradictory measure that reduces and prevents our economy from being competitive. I know that we cannot demand anything from this debate because the government is inoperable because the school system has already adopted a regulation. However, this debate is still useful for the future, and I hope that whoever takes the lead in education will see the problems where they are, but not find them and build them where they do not need to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you. Mrs. Potrate called in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you. This debate is a chronic proof of how SDS works. I think you've outdone yourself today. What you have just said about the Minister of Education and Sport, how he is being abused by foreign tourist agencies, Italy and Austria, is indeed a sublime instigation. How can you afford such a thing? I don't know how you got your e-mails from the Director of Primary Schools and Kindergarten. There's a lot to think about with all this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you. List Yes, please have your word as a motioner. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u150	I apologize, Mrs Potrata, but as the Minister hypothetically indicated that we are the reason for changing holidays – I do not know what impact our party has on changing the system in education, as it was suggested that we are being abused by some economic operators – I can also express myself and have the right to express some doubt in this Parliament when I read all the documents, that perhaps someone else has not done some of his tasks properly, because even an evaluation group that he does not take into account and perhaps someone else suggests to him. Just as every person has the right to think, I think we have, and we have not accused anything, but we have stated in the same way as the Minister to us and just as you have suggested that someone is standing in the background to ask such strange questions. Then you must also ask your colleague Bevek why he asked such a strange question to the minister during the same period as I do. He was also surprised that such a change had taken place. So let's be right to each other. All we're talking about is hypothetical possibilities and we're not accusing anyone of anything. So I hope we understand each other, but don't get too excited.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah, I'm opening the application. The application for discussion shall be open. Mrs. Purgatory, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you. This debate, I say again, does not contribute to any better movement in the school field. This is due to the fact that someone has accounted for in time and has not responded in time to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure when the Rules on school holidays were under discussion. The material to which we rely and where the committee meeting was founded – the procedure for adopting the Rules on amendments to the School Calendar Rules for Primary and Secondary Schools – and which resulted from the work of the evaluation group, is concluded by reading: “The decision on uniform winter holidays was adopted in accordance with the competences of the Ministry of Education and Sport, in accordance with the rules and in the interest of the school field. After the decision was politicized, the entire school space supported with a large majority the autonomous and useful decision of the Ministry of Education and Sport. None of the fears that many actors were unjustifiably alerted to have come true. There was no loss in the economy, there was no crowding on the ski slopes, skiers did not go to a large extent during winter holidays abroad, accidents on the roads and on the ski slopes due to a single holiday.” That's what the report says. That's all I can resist. I did not search the e-mails of others in other ministries, I did not look for records, but the representatives of the interest sphere on our committee could have expressed their views, so I can justifiably argue that this interest group has expressed its interest in different regulation of the area. But all that has been said before about the effects of the foreign on the Minister's decisions is indeed the fruit of instigation. And when we talk about different things, you know, if someone agrees to the market economy, if someone talks about the interests of the economy, then they have to take some data into account. And look, statistics are collected on the price of the ticket on Slovenian skis compared to foreigners per kilometer of ski tracks. On Rogli a kilometer 2.42 euros costs an individual, and you could also tell about other Slovenian ski resorts. If you are looking abroad, if you are looking at Trbiz, say 0.91, Osyščica 0.7, say another Austrian – Katschberg, I hope that I said exactly – 0.54, Saalbach, say in Austria 0.21 or even 0.18. These are the reasons why our skiers are going abroad. Those who want to ski also judge from this point of view what a ski offer is. I can't judge people because they're making a better offer. I can't judge them. I can't judge them for that. What I am saying is that it is in the interest of the Slovenian economy, that if it wants to be competitive, then something will be done to increase competitiveness. You are all wondering about the decline in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. But I do not speak, and you, Mr Krivec, have put words in your tongue that I have not spoken. You were telling me that I said 15 million cat coughs and I don't know what else. I didn't say. I'm just saying that the quality of the education system is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of the Economy may have different views on some things, only the Ministry of the Economy does not take responsibility for what is going on at school. One more time. The professional criteria say that it is good for work to follow terms, both for teachers and especially for students: 9 weeks of schooling, 1 week of vacation, and I would expect those who talk so much about having a nice school to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thanks again for saying that. I too have a record and write: conclusions, 1, 2, 3 and the third decision states that the working group proposes the reintroduction of two-week holidays. I'll give it to you after the session. But as for tourism and our ski resorts, I don't think it's that easy to compare. If our country were to support public infrastructure as generously as the ski resorts of foreign countries, the price per kilometer would also be significantly more favourable for us. And I'm going to make a comparison of just the nearby ski resorts in Furlania. In the last five years, the promotion as a rural society has won 400 million dollars to modernise the ski resorts. Nothing on our side. In this way, we will never be competing abroad. And I'm not reading anything to any skier going abroad, they're better skiers and so on. But it's some kind of systemic kick, or I don't know if we want to understand it. None of us have proposed that such a change be introduced. Nor did you know that such a change would take place. Nor did you know that such a change would take place, even in the coalition it was a surprise. And let us face it once, make a mistake, and correct it. And it is clear that for 2010/2011, for this, I would say, the season was not possible. However, it was possible to correct this error and admit that we have done stupidity, error, however we take it, and correct this for the 2011/2012 school year. And that's why this evaluation committee and group were established and established, and it brought conclusions that the minister did not take into account. That is why this issue has also been repeated in this term or this year. And I think that, however we know that this is now irrelevant and will be the year of school, this is not a meaningless debate, because it clearly shows how some imagine the functioning of individual systems. And the fact that teachers and students have to have exactly nine weeks of vacation and so on – I don't know, based on what kind of analysis this came on the day, because twenty years there was no problem when one part changed exactly to nine weeks, the other part changed on eight weeks and the next year they changed nicely, and none of this made a big difference. I agree that maybe this year's 2010/2011 season wasn't such a big drop, but where do we have the guarantee that in the coming years this will not cause any major problems and a bigger dropout and a bigger departure of ours, would you say, tourists, guests abroad? We don't know that, and why are you doing experiments at a time when the ministry and the state have significantly bigger problems and could be dealing with things that are more important? Working on a rule that, as you say, has no effect on anything or is only within the competence of the ministries obviously not because most of the other departments immediately, I would say, responded when it was published. [[…]] It should be noted that this Regulation has not been properly published either, and this has also been established. And the Ministry of Economy has responded at the right time. Clearly, it is only when individual ministers are photographed on the ski slope and talk about safety, about our beautiful image, but when a rule is to be harmonised interdepartmentally, then the ministers are independent, each is determined by his own conscience regardless of whether it affects other departments and causes problems. This is not good, and this has led us to where we are, so the minister first found that he did not know whether he was still responsible for the answers or whether he was already on vacation — I don’t know whether it was winter or summer — he will find that out. I don't imagine I would have even gone on summer vacations, but the way he put it, obviously it wouldn't have been so far from some reality. So this debate will nevertheless help to ask one another the next time he takes such moves on his own hand, and I think it can be instructive for a lot of people in any case.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you. So did Mr. Kres, and his camera didn't take his signal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, colleague Majda Potrate. Look, I'm sure you know very well the organisation of secondary and primary education as well as education in general. And I have to be honest with you that I admire you very much in how well you know this matter and you are very much in favour of it. And I'm sure you also know the problems, the obstacles and all the other things that happen in this work. Look, I'm sure I know the economy very well myself, the problems of the small economy, the problems of jobs, and I don't say anything else. But I never said anything but what some parents and some teachers told me before. And even then, I said very well that I couldn't take it as a matter that must be, and I was just talking about having to think about it again and doing quality research. In one small part, the minister himself agreed. And I do not think that it is necessary to do research with expensive institutions, with expensive research agencies, but that these research can be done within the Ministry of Education, both at the secondary level and at the primary level. And of course, then I said, "let's ask the parents" and now I add this: "let's also ask all the other participants in this process" and what will then turn out to be the case. I did not say in any way that we must ask any economic participant who could have interests in this matter; in particular, I said, "let's ask the parents" and now I add, "let's ask the teachers and other participants in this educational process." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I also conclude the agenda item and interrupt the 31st meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for being here and for a nice day.
