ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Melita Župevc, Tadej Slapnik, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Zvonko Černač, Matjaž Zanoškar and Jakob Presečnik. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on legal protection in public procurement proceedings in another defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of public procurement is to ensure the efficient and transparent use of public funds. Rules prevent the prioritisation of individual economic operators of tenderers. Legal protection against any infringement of the award of public contracts has so far been provided by the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, adopted in 1999. The proposal for a new law before you, however, aligns the existing regulation of legal protection with European law. After the new legal protection of the public interest is also ensured following the conclusion of a contract for the execution of a public contract, with the possibility of repealing this contract. The new directive, which regulates public procurement in the security and defence fields and still has to be transposed into our legal order, also regulates legal protection in the award of such contracts. As before, legal protection is first exercised against the contracting authority and then before the State Audit Commission. In this way, it is possible to quickly remedy the errors of the procurement procedure and the State Audit Commission is burdened by decisions in cases where the contracting authority has already identified the infringement or its error. The law clearly limits the process of legal protection against the contracting authority, i.e. the so-called pre-audit procedure, and the procedure of protection against the State Audit Commission, that is the audit procedure. In order to ensure greater efficiency, automatic continuation of legal protection before the State Audit Commission shall be ensured if the review authority refuses the request by allowing the applicant to withdraw the request at any time. The new law also introduces some other procedural improvements: shortening the deadline for the submission of an application, making it impossible for individual public procurement to repeat the same audit requests; the State Audit Commission may conduct a clearance meeting and obtain an expert opinion. In accordance with the requirements of the European Directive, in the event of the worst infringements of public procurement rules, the nullity of public procurement contracts shall be ensured. This will be determined by the District Court in Ljubljana and the introduction of a judicial procedure can be proposed by anyone. In the event of a finding of nullity, the contracting authority and its responsible person will also be subject to a fine for the offence. However, with a view to protecting the public interest, it is nevertheless possible in extreme cases to avoid nullity and thus to carry out key urgent public procurements. The composition of the State Audit Commission is amended by law. The new conditions to be met by members and the President of the Commission are education in the legal direction, legal examination and several years of working experience in the field of public procurement. We are further approaching or stressing the intention that the State Audit Commission is a special tribunal, a special court for public procurement cases. The law abolishes the so-called criminal fee that the applicant had to pay so far if he failed to comply with the audit request. The same fee shall be fixed for the pre-audit and audit procedure. The principle of proportionality is respected and follows the Constitutional Court’s decision on this issue. Together with the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services, the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures constitutes an appropriate system for the effective and transparent implementation of procurement procedures and related legal protection. Taking into account the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly support the law in question. At the same time, we propose that, after a second hearing, if business conditions are met, the National Assembly will also carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 27th meeting, on 5 May 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made an introductory general comment on the Treaty nullity and time limits Institute and the specific comments to Article 32 of the Law proposal. The proposed law has been tabled by the amendments: the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members of Parliament, the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament, and by Mr Villa Trophynik. The Committee was also presented with proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance, taking into account most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was also provided with proposals and comments by the State Audit Commission on the revision of procurement procedures relating to access to classified information, in particular in terms of regulation, as in the case of access to classified data, without authorisation for individual authorities and institutions, provided for by the Secret Data Act. In the context of the additional explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the service insisted on both general comments, since the amendments to the Committee did not take due account of them. It also pointed out explicitly that the specific comments to Articles 14, 25, 33 and 78 were not taken into account. The debate focused on the amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members and mainly on the work and composition of the State Audit Commission. Some attention was also paid to the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group proposing that provisions relating to the pre-audit procedure should be deleted from the law. With regard to Article 63, which regulates the access of an individual and members of the State Audit Commission to classified information and takes account of the Secret Data Act and provides for the authorisation of access to such data, and with regard to this article of the amendments tabled, both the Members' Group of Unaffiliated Members to delete a Article as a Member of William Trophynik to amend the Article in the sense of authorised access without express permission, irrespective of the Secret Data Act, the debate further noted the fact that the amendment to the Secret Data Act was not an appropriate solution, since the time limit for the adoption of this amendment would have expired, as provided for in Article 83 of the Act. At the same time, the representative of the bill's proposer drew attention to the systemic nature of the provision of Article 63 of the Act, which provides the President and the members of the Commission with access to classified information at all. The deletion of this provision is therefore not appropriate. While the Ministry of Finance does not oppose the idea of granting them access to classified information without authorisation under the Secret Data Act, for a transitional period until the adoption of the relevant amendment, this issue should then be addressed in the transitional provisions of the proposed law. Since the State Audit Commission also pointed to these issues in its written comments on the proposed law, the President stressed in the debate that the Commission insists on its proposals. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 22, 25, 26, 28, 30, 32, 39, 42 to 46, 49, 52, 59 to 61, 63, 65, 70, 78 and 79, on the basis of the proposals of the amendments prepared by the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted, in so doing, the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 31 and did not adopt the other amendments tabled or identified themselves to those amendments which have become irrelevant due to the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you. Your Honor! At its plenary session, the National Assembly will consider the proposals for two public procurement laws. In the field of public procurement, there is also a completely new law on legal protection in procurement procedures that we are considering today and will replace the applicable Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures. The applicable Law on the revision of public procurement procedures provides legal protection in procurement procedures. The Act provides all interested parties with adequate legal protection under the same conditions, based in particular on the principles of legality, speed, accessibility, efficiency and contradiction. Legal protection shall protect the interests of both the tenderer and the contracting authority, both of whom shall seek to enforce them in the procurement procedures carried out in accordance with the rules governing procurement. The annual reports of the State Audit Commission show that the content of audit requests is more difficult each year and that the number of audit requests is increasing at the annual level, which is also the result of the financial crisis. The new law also aims to ensure effective legal protection of tenderers, contracting authorities and public interest in procurement procedures, with several European directives being transposed into Slovenia's legal order. That is why we will really support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members. However, I would draw attention to the provision of Article 63 of the law governing the access of the President and the members of the State Audit Commission to classified information and therefore provide for the authorisation of access to such data. At the initiative of our Trofenic member, we have tabled an amendment to amend the article in terms of authorised access without express permission, irrespective of the Secret Data Act. This Article provides that, in respect of the performance of their duties, they may access classified information without permission of access: the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the Member of the State Council, the Mayor and the municipal councilors, and the list of beneficiaries would not be completed within the next minute. They shall be authorised by the beginning of their duties or by the performance of their work and by signing a declaration that they are familiar with this law and other regulations governing the protection of classified information and that they undertake to act in accordance with these rules. The State Audit Commission shall be a separate, independent and independent State body and thus be fully comparable to those beneficiaries and bodies. And given that the members and the President have the status of a state official, it would make sense for them to be treated equally with regard to access to classified information. That's what my colleague Likar already talked about. We are also aware that opposition to this solution was expressed at the Committee on Finance's hearing and I would like to draw attention to the following facts. The Ministry of Finance did not object to the Committee's discussion of the intention to settle this issue in the Secret Data Act, but it should also be aware that the amendment of the Secret Data Act is not an appropriate solution, since until the adoption of this amendment there will be a deadline for obtaining the authorisation, as provided for in Article 83 of the Act. In addition, the State Audit Commission has also pointed out these issues in its written comments to the proposed law, with additional warnings being made that there is no need for access to classified information at the moment and that it will come with the implementation of a directive relating to the coordination of procedures for the award of certain works, goods and services provided by contracting authorities in the field of defence security. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really propose that the amendment to Article 63 be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u8	Your Honor, hello! We have yet another law in the field of public procurement. This law replaces the law in force so far on the revision of public procurement procedures. We thus transpose into the Slovenian legal order the directive governing legal protection in procurement procedures and the directive governing public procurement in the defence and security field in terms of providing legal protection in these proceedings. The aim of the law before us must be to rationalise procurement procedures and regulate legal protection by achieving a balance between ensuring the legal security of participants in the procurement process and the duration of those procedures. When we talk about public procurement, we must first and foremost be aware that we are talking about how tax money is spent. The use of this money must certainly be transparent and rational. The basic public procurement laws are intended for this purpose. However, since temptation is always present and human factors make it possible to make such or other mistakes in these procedures, it is right to adopt a law that will effectively prevent or at least resolve it. There is an enormous amount of budget money distributed through public contracts and there is always and there will be a temptation on the part of the authorities to distribute this money in a targeted manner. Just as it is and will always be the interest of the tenderers to get past the business of rules, types and other tenderers. This must be prevented and prevented to the greatest extent possible. This way of working in Slovenia, despite existing restrictive and penal legislation, has already caused enormous damage. After all, this damage is always paid by taxpayers, employees, our children and grandchildren will pay it. Because of this way of doing things in the end, we all pay a higher price and get less good than we could. In the Slovenian People's Party, we hope and want the proposed law to be effective. It must protect well-intentioned tenderers, competition and prevent the above-mentioned anomalies and malicious and unjustifiable delay in proceedings. We all know that this is an area where they are at odds, not only many private interests, but also public interests and principles. We want fast, efficient procurement procedures and the cheapest services on the one hand, and on the other hand we want to prevent corruption, fraud, exploitation and to protect well-intentioned providers of goods and services. It is necessary to find the right measure of everything, and we hope that this law brings it. We will support the proposed law in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr President, a respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering another law in the package of public procurement legislation, the new law on legal protection in procurement procedures. It will replace the applicable Law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Its aim is to ensure effective legal protection of tenderers, contracting authorities and public interest in procurement procedures, with several European directives being brought into Slovenia's legal order. The new law diverges from the law in force in this area mainly because of provisions relating to improvement procedures, in particular those of a time-consuming nature. It also introduces institutes that will allow even more rational implementation of legal protection procedures. On the other hand, it removes those who have proved to be ineffective and unnecessary in practice. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u12	Good morning, good morning. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Colleagues are and are likely to say everything about the current situation, the purpose and objectives of the Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures, which we believe is necessary in the Slovenian National Party, but of course it is more important to us than it is. I will point out two contents which are of national concern for Slovenia. The first is based on the record of the Legal and Legal Service. In particular, the proposal for a law as a sanction for certain infringements in the procurement procedure provides for the nullity of the contract, but the solutions in this proposal are different from those laid down in the Bond Code as regards the nullity of the contract in the essential elements. The nullity of the contract under the Bond Code is clear; it is absolutely invalid and has certain rules. However, the proposal for a law differs greatly from these essential features of the nullity of the bond contract. Article 42, for example, provides for relatively short deadlines for the application of nullity, which in itself means that the zero contract becomes valid after the expiry of this period and is contrary to the notion of nullity as set out in the Bond Code. Then we have a case where the audit authority decides that nullity can be overlooked in certain cases, which once again means that, on the basis of a court decision, the zero contract will become valid, which is once again substantially contrary to the nullity defined by the Bond Code. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that what I have just said is not just a matter of speaking and passing, and we are convinced that this is a very serious matter, because it is a matter of interference with the foundations of bond law and with such differences between the content of this law and the Bond Act, it is not a matter of playing and playing politically and showing muscles who has more – or Parliament, or Government. It is a matter of harmony or respect for a law that is stronger and that defines the concept of futility. And the other content I would like to mention on behalf of the Slovenian National Party is accessibility to classified data. In the Slovenian National Party, we point out that soon in this country, at least after all that we experience and see, everyone will have access to all kinds of classified information. Therefore, a little in a joke, a little in fact, in the Slovenian National Party, we are thinking of proposing that the existence of classified data be abolished at all. This would reduce the cost of doing business for all those who care. Because it seems everyone will now have access to all kinds of data. But if we don't have this data, we'll track it in the media anyway. A little joke, a little bit, really, let's break this classified information, 'cause otherwise I don't know where we're gonna get to. As it is said, in the Slovenian National Party we know that such a law is necessary. We are serious about the difference between the notion of nullity and the Bond Act. We're alerting the security of the data. Finally, I add that we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good day to you all, especially guests from the Ministry of Finance and you, colleagues and colleagues! We will support this law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. For the Law on public procurement in the water, energy and transport fields and the field of postal services is in fact the law of twins of the Public Procurement Act. Both marriages are both very similar or even the same. The one we're talking about right now has some specifics. The Law on Public Procurement, which regulated public procurement relations, was adopted a long time ago, and the Government also prepared an update of this law. For us, as in the Public Procurement Act, it is essential to prevent major contractors from nominating them as subcontractors through the establishment of subsidiaries, and to continue to prevent their subcontractors from making direct payments. As we have pointed out several times before, we support this solution in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and we welcome it. Even though we, as we have done many times before, find that it is only by law that such work is difficult or virtually impossible to prevent, because it is always happening to us to find a way as a perimeter or to play legislation. The main problem, in our view, is business culture and that we do not have the appropriate control mechanisms in place, and in particular that it is not effective, perhaps more drastic, sanctioning. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we hope that we have closed at least one, apparently very widespread and popular way of playing legislation and thus prevented the resulting damage to real, real subcontractors who, as the last article in the chain, do not most often get what belongs to them and are also vulnerable. But we're going to talk about this topic today at the end of the line. The novelty also allows for changes to decisions on the award of a contract where the contracting authority overlooks any information and therefore makes an incorrect decision. In addition, the reasons for the withdrawal of the contract shall be defined. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, it seems also right to decide that there is a possibility of withdrawing from the conclusion of the contract because it is provided that this can be done if it is found that there is a possibility that the content of the contract is a consequence of a crime or, on the other hand, if, following the decision to award the contract, exceptional circumstances that the contracting authority could not have foreseen arisen, it could not have affected them and the conclusion of the contract with the successful tenderer is pointless, since, of course, this – already known – will not be able to fulfil the contractual obligations. Thus, the contract excluded a contractor who is in bankruptcy where his board member, supervisory board or representative has been a member of the board of directors, supervisory board, representative or owner of a 25 % share in the company that has been bankrupt, forced settlement or liquidation in the last two years. Other solutions also deal more closely with the procedure and the possibility of looking at unchosen tenderers in other offers. This was some of the main reasons why the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will be complete and united in knowing and reminding us that, of course, in general, the legislation of Slovenia in the field of public procurement is still very large and we are far from the ideal story, so for all of us together – in the future we have much work to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u16	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The introductory presentation of the work on the working body has already said that the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members had a number of proposals, additions, comments, we felt that improvements to the existing text as well, and that most of what we have proposed has not been accepted. In part, our concerns or suggestions have been taken into account, but most of them, as I say, have not. However, this is no reason for us not to continue to support the ministry and the government in their efforts to amend public procurement legislation. As we supported amendments to the Public Procurement Act, we will also amend the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. We will also support this law, and we believe that the announced law on public procurement in the field of defence and protection will also be prepared equally well in order to be able to receive support. We provide this support because the situation is such that they call for change. Not only are we – these are still in the sky – but the situation that is due to changes in the legislation in the European Union and the situation there are such that changes are required and the government and the ministry are trying to follow them as best they can. We estimate that the measures adopted by law are appropriate, after most of the support we receive. However, we will also express our concerns about some today. Public procurement is an extremely important part of economic activity, both in terms of: through proper, ongoing, appropriate procurement and the execution of purchases and investments, we can also direct our economic flows, and we can help develop something. However, in the event that it comes to an end in this area, we often have the consequences of a developmental and economic blockade, and so on, to a greater extent, we can. Therefore, we believe that the ambitions of the Government or the Ministry, the proposer of this law, are to regulate all these procedures as closely as possible and clearly as possible, so that there is no doubt that the procedures will be arranged in such a way as to run quickly, even when audits occur, and that they will, of course, be fair to those who are complainants and to those who are contracting. So all these goals the government is trying to pursue are worthy of our support. But we said that some amendments were not supported and repeated. Let me just say in very short words what we think it would be good to support, even today. One of the amendments speaks of the composition of the State Audit Commission and of the conditions for someone to be appointed to this commission in the National Assembly. We believe that these conditions are not the most appropriate, especially for this reason not because they are too exclusionary. Exclusive in the sense that a member of the State Audit Commission may only be a university graduate lawyer with a legal examination and additional conditions provided for in the Article. We estimate that it is right that the legal profession is adequately represented, but public procurement is so wide that it is appropriate and possible to allow other relevant experts to be represented on this committee. We see no reason why he could not be a member of the commission, for example, a construction engineer or an architect or an economist, because this also concerns their professions. And that general knowledge, which is legally necessary, can also be acquired, including by experts who have a different professional orientation. We therefore propose this change, which in grave means only that other experts are allowed to be members of this audit committee. However, we support the amendment tabled by Zares regarding access to classified information.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In this economic and financial situation, the whole economic sector is an extremely important area of public procurement. As a rule, money flows are provided in this area, namely public funding. However, there are irregularities in the procurement, as elsewhere, both on the side of the tenderers and the contracting authorities. Some tenderers, even when the tender is done correctly but they have not received the order, are still looking for legal channels to obtain the order, but mostly only to make it difficult for the selected service provider or to supply the goods, to start work or supply the goods as soon as possible and thereby cause business damage to it. I would not like to mention individual cases now, but there are quite a few and they have been dragging themselves too long, and investments and supplies in this time of crisis are not running out. The proposed law is therefore intended to ensure effective legal protection of the tenderer, contracting authority and public interest in procurement procedures, and to rationalise the legal protection procedures to be carried out against the contracting authority and the State Audit Commission. The draft law also regulates protection in the field of defence and security interests in procurement procedures. In addition to the legal protection exercised against the contracting authority and the State Audit Commission against the conclusion of a contract for the execution of a contract, the proposal for a law on legal protection in procurement proceedings also introduces legal protection following the conclusion of a contract for the execution of a contract, namely by imposing nullity in a court proceedings against one of the Slovenian district courts whose jurisdiction is determined by law governing the courts. The new Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures differs mainly from the current Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures due to provisions relating to procedural improvements, in particular those of a time-consuming nature, to the introduction of institutions that will allow even more rational implementation of legal protection procedures, and to the abolition of those institutions that have proved to be ineffective and unnecessary in practice and have only prolonged and not reduced procedures, and to the complainant's frequent false hopes that he would obtain a public order and not in a way of competitiveness, which must be the rule in public procurement. In order to rationalise and shorten the audit procedures, the deadlines in the pre-audit procedure are slightly reduced, i.e. the process of legal protection against the contracting authority. However, due to the increasing complexity of legal protection procedures, the State Audit Commission shall be provided with the possibility of further decision-making to ensure the correctness and legality of the decision of the State Audit Commission. Given that legal protection is not ensured against the decision of the State Audit Commission, ensuring the legality of its decisions is all the more important. The contracting authority’s interest is that the procurement and legal protection procedure should be completed as soon as possible and that this reduction in the pre-audit procedure is justified and necessary. In this way, the principle of speed is also stressed. The rationalisation of the legal protection procedure before the State Audit Commission – the so-called audit procedure – is also affected by the introduction of a clarification meeting and the possibility of obtaining expert opinions and the involvement of independent experts and experts to clarify individual professional issues. In this way, the State Audit Commission may obtain all the necessary clarifications and views as soon as possible to establish the actual situation and to take a legal decision in the audit procedure. Since the introduction of the new law, the procedure for the review of the public contract will be somewhat shorter also due to the automatic transmission of the audit application, with which the applicant failed, to the State Audit Board. Following the current legislation, the contracting authority invited the applicant to clarify whether it wished to continue the legal proceedings before the State Audit Commission and then withdrew the documentation to that Commission. In the light of the new legislative solutions, the contracting authority will submit a request for an audit to which it has not agreed, to the State Audit Board under its official responsibility. The rationalisation of the procurement review process is also affected by a provision that prevents the multiple enforcement of legal protection against the same infringements in individual procurement procedures. The Group of Members will support the amendments of the coalition and will not support the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, in particular because we believe that it is necessary for the State Audit Commission to act as a tribunal and to take its decisions on the basis of the expert opinions it receives in the preliminary review procedure and legally correct, so the President and the members of the State Audit Commission are required to have a legal state examination. For all of this, the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on legal protection in procurement procedures, because we want to prevent the delay in public procurement in the context of complaints when these are not justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thanks again for saying that. The amendment of laws should, in the specific case of the Government, be based primarily on the shortcomings of the rules in force in the implementation of the laws and should be followed by amendments to these anomalies. Instead, we are increasingly witnessing hypernormality in all areas, and the law on legal protection in procurement procedures is no exception, as its scope has almost doubled and solutions are worse than in the law in force. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expected the proposed amendment to be used for two purposes: firstly, to ensure effective legal protection in procurement procedures, and secondly, to increase rationality in the decision-making of audit or appeal procedures and to prevent abuse of proceedings, i.e. to de-debarcise proceedings. Despite the fact that the drafter's objectives, i.e. the Government, are based on the above principles, the text of the law speaks of the opposite. For this reason, we have proposed a number of amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and they have all been rejected on the Home Committee. We have proposed two levels of decision-making in legal protection procedures – audit and judicial level – because in our view, the pre-audit procedure does not allow for a higher level of legal protection for tenderers and prolongs procurement procedures. We have also proposed that only one body — the State Defence — be designated in the protection or public interest in these procedures, and not four, as stipulated by the amendment of the law, because this does not protect the public interest and the vague definitions do not contribute to the rationality of the proceedings. We also believe that there is no need for the mandate of the President of the Audit Commission to be extended to eight years, as if that Government would like to cadre all the most important functions in that country for two more future mandates. We have also proposed stricter age conditions for this function, because in our view there are important experiences in such a place in the areas addressed by the State Audit Commission. We listened to one of the ministers in the media a few days ago, who re-registered the fact that legal protection in procurement procedures allows abuse of the procedure and that the use of European funds is therefore at risk. The new law, which is before us, does not prevent such cases as it was concrete. Moreover, it opens up new possibilities for abuse of procedure. Instead of huddled ministers in front of cameras on how powerless they are in these procedures, they would expect them to propose laws within the Government that will effectively and clearly regulate individual relations. Since the proposal does not constitute any added value in the area of legal protection in procurement procedures and even opens up the possibility of corruption in individual stages of proceedings, it cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We are moving on to Article 13 and I am putting into discussion Article 13 and the amendment of SD, Ares and LDS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I find that there is no desire for a debate, so I conclude. We move on to the amendment to Articles 14, 15, 26 and 52. Since this first amendment to Article 14 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 15, 16 and 52, we will discuss them together, as it is said, in the debate I will put paragraphs 14, 15, 26 and 52 and the amendments of the SD, Zares and LDS groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk about it? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on these articles. We are moving on to the 31st Article, and I am putting to the debate the 31st Article and the amendment of SD, Ares and LDS to the 31st Article. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 44 and I am putting into discussion Article 44 and the amendment of the SD, Zares and LDS groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 61, and I am putting in the debate Article 61 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Please, Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because it's running so well, it'd be a shame to break it off, though. Since there was not a lot of debate on why such a requirement for exclusive education for someone to be a member of the State Audit Commission, we may only hear some answers from a representative of the Government or the Ministry on the subject. It seems to us that, with all due respect for the legal profession, we know that a representative of the Ministry is speaking even of a court tribunal to which the legal profession belongs, but such an audit commission cannot be limited to a single profile of the people. Surely there are many others who are qualified or with the experience required and who can acquire this lack of knowledge in order to participate in competition for such tasks. And we really don't see a particular reason why those who, for example, have been tendering specialists for a number of years who have been preparing tenders – in order to be able to make good calls, they also need to know the customs and customs of others who are competing on different calls – why those who are then often present at the public opening of tenders and have a wide overview of what is going on in this area, and why, later on, let's say, when they fail, do calculations and think about what is in the process or in what else they can be different, so that they will be successful in competing – why can't those people who have a lot of knowledge be able to participate? Just because they don't have a real diploma in their hands. They may have, I don't know, 20, 30 years of experience, but they may have not only professional, but also the personality and other maturity that is probably necessary for such very important decisions that are discussed on the State Audit Commission. We think it would be appropriate for other experts to open the door. However, our amendment provides for the presence of legal expertise and legal examination. By trying to follow what the government is going to do. But there are a few other conditions, so let's think about it. Perhaps it is unusual that at the age of 30 someone is suitable if he is a lawyer, if he is a restorative graduate lawyer, if he has a legal exam and has six years of work experience, which will be very difficult to obtain by the age of 30. If we add up the studies, the legal exam and the required six years of experience – and even if it will have perfect expertise – perhaps thirty years is no limit to say that even after experience and personality, people are able to decide on audits that can go into hundreds of millions of euros. So we ask for a second thought before the decision and perhaps another answer by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u23	The text is by the representative of the Government, Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have pointed out already in today's introduction, and also at the Committee on Finance's meeting, we want to bring the amendments introduced by the bill in the field of organisation and functioning of the State Audit Commission closer to the status of the Tribunal, which makes it possible in most cases, I will say, the decision-making and final decision of the State Audit Commission, without the need to ensure another level of legal protection, except in exceptional cases – this nullity. In order to ensure, or to approach, the status of the Tribunal, we have foreseen in the draft law both the extension of the mandate, the President and the members of the State Audit Commission, as well as the educational structure of those bodies. Let me mention that, in the current regulation, lawyers are president and two members of the State Audit Commission and all three must have a state exam. However, two members may have an education in economic and technical terms. However, the amendment provides that the President and the two members have an education in the legal direction, but only the President is scheduled to have a legal examination, so only the President is expected to meet the conditions laid down by law for the judicial branch of government. It seems to us that with the proposed amendment, we are moving away from the purpose that we wanted to achieve by implementing these changes in the law and because of the same amendment we do not support. As far as the age of 30 is concerned, this is the minimum age anticipated for the President or members of the State Audit Commission. Of course, it is crucial that it fulfils the substantive conditions, i.e. that six years of work experience in the field of public procurement and appropriate education, which means that someone will have to be a very good student and, at the same time, immediately at the beginning of his career, also begin to carry out responsible public procurement tasks so that this condition will actually be taken into account for 30 years; it is a minimum that is somehow standardised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u26	For a little while. This is about the tribunal, we've heard this, but is this the question now that we have to agree to push the State Audit Commission into the judicial branch of power? This is not a judicial branch of government, it is an independent body that decides itself, but it also has — since we have three procedures — a pre-audit, audit and judicial body — someone else who can decide on its decisions differently. As far as lawyers are concerned, graduate lawyers with a state exam, there is, of course, some weakness in this decision is already evident from the law itself, as the bill also provides that this is a certain flaw, that is unilateral knowledge, and therefore opens up the possibility of hiring external experts. If someone can be an external expert, say qualified enough to provide external expert advice to those who decide, then he should probably be a member himself, I would say, such committees, and possibly for areas that he does not manage sufficiently, ask for advice from an external expert. There's some kind of consistency crack in here, according to my judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u27	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bogdan Chappich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, there were quite a few discussions on this article and on these additions on the Committee on Finance and Monetary System, but when, of course, we heard an explanation of the fact that it was the final decision of the State Audit Commission, which, of course, there were no complaints that it was actually a judicial decision, how it would be implemented or not to be executed, and when this decision is final, of course, all the expert opinions and all these things are made correctly. By doing so, we will avoid any exceptional legal means that could bring these things further to different courts. I also think that, given that the State Audit Commission can work in the Senate or individually, it means that if, of course, there were people with another education who could be fully qualified, who could, of course, also carry out quality decisions and these things, but legally impossible, because legal knowledge is special and would not have a legal exam that gives them some right to decide on behalf of someone – that all these decisions could be disputed from this point of view. And from this point of view, it seems very important to me that the State Audit Commission is uniform after education, meaning that it is legal that all legal examinations are carried out and that decisions in this area are, in fact, the same as the Court of Justice, and that we thus shorten certain procedures, except when exceptional remedies are used. As far as 30 years are concerned, there is likely to be no one who will meet these conditions. I think, given the views that have already been presented – why not a little older or more knowledge – six years of public procurement skills are needed for the president of the State Audit Commission itself for three years. I think the fuse is something that allows people to make sovereign decisions about things. The State Audit Commission does not decide on the content of the invitation to tender, but on the legal accuracy of the implementation of all of this, and from this point of view, it seems to me that this provision on the structure and education of this State Audit Commission is well placed. Of course, the State Audit Commission has sufficient opportunities to gain professional knowledge when it goes beyond the legal knowledge or knowledge of these lawyers in other areas, because then, of course, it would be a question of whether they should be economists or whether they should be builders, because it is mostly about building things, or whether they should be machineryers when it comes to mechanical things, of course. It's a bunch of areas that, of course, are covered by this. However, I am also assessing the experience I have in this area, which shows that if the State Audit Commission already has to see whether it has been properly carried out, we have, of course, trained lawyers in our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Please. Willie Rezman wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u30	First of all, I would say that I probably don't understand all of this now, because I never understood that the State Audit Commission is making decisions, as has been said. Has the State Audit Commission now sent a court of law at the will of someone? Probably not. But as for the appropriateness and the need for legal knowledge, we do not deny it. Only we are not convinced that there must be only legal experts, that there may be some other knowledge on such a committee. Someone can be a perfect lawyer, handle legal procedures and so on, and perhaps there is little knowledge of the content that he will decide as a lawyer. And if it is so bad that there would be someone in the State Audit Board who is not a lawyer with a legal exam — and now they are — how is it that there is no analysis of what was wrong because of this, that this current regulation needs to be changed by expelling all those who are not lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u31	Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am closing the debate on Article 61 and moving on to Article 63. I am putting to the debate Article 63 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law on amendments and additions to the law on non-profit mediation in another profession. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I should call on the government representative to present the law, but now I've got him informed that the minister is on his way, so we can say he may be on his way from Lendava, but he may be from Bežigrad. [[...]] We hope you're from Bežigrad, so I'm adjourning the session in five minutes, if you don't mind, and we'll resume in five minutes. But if he doesn't, then we'll keep going. So, we'll pick it up at 10.07.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Intermediation Act. The main reason for drafting the amendments and supplementing the law and the aim of this proposal is to align the Slovenian acquis with the two directives of the European Union, namely the Directive governing the recognition of professional qualifications and the Directive on services in the internal market. The proposal follows the principles laid down by the Directive for the provision of services and activities by providers established in the European Union: the principle of administrative simplification, the prohibition of discriminatory treatment, the justification of requirements for important reasons of public interest, the prohibition of duplication of equivalent requirements for the re-checking of evidence and so on. The provisions of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which are amended in the light of the requirements of Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market, include the provision of services to foreign real estate companies and foreign nationals to provide services of intervention in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law thus regulates the possibility of permanent or occasional real estate intervention activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and requires foreigners to acquire the status of a real estate intermediary. The current condition of reciprocity for carrying out real estate intervention activities for EU citizens and nationals of other countries is prohibited under the Internal Market Services Directive. This condition must be removed from the law, except for third-country nationals who remain as a condition for recognition of the status of a real estate intermediary. A foreign real estate company, as well as a Slovenian real estate company, must have secured liability for damage suffered by the contracting authority or a third party through the provision of intervention services in the Republic of Slovenia at the start of the real estate business in the Republic of Slovenia. Insurance for a foreign company is not conditioned by the conclusion of insurance in the Republic of Slovenia, but must be concluded before the start of the intervention activity in our territory, namely the time of intervention for you. The draft law also regulates the conduct of intervention activities without condition as regards the premises prescribed by the present law. Following the regulation so far, the real estate company must have the appropriate premises that are necessary and suitable for the provision of services of intervention, with at least one space being considered as an appropriate space to be used separately from others for individual interviews with the parties, provided that the real estate company has more than one employee. The proposal to amend and supplement the real estate law provides for the suspension of certain administrative requirements for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. An individual who obtains a certificate of professional qualifications obtained — an intermediary, a real estate intermediary — may commence carrying out a real estate transfer activity by entering into a real estate broker’s directory without having been issued with a special decision. By doing so, an individual becomes a real estate agent. So, it's just by entering the directory. It is also proposed to harmonise criminal provisions by translating the amounts from tolars into euro. It is also proposed to amend Articles 34 and 36 of the current law in view of the substantive amendments to the provisions of the law and the new valuation of the amounts to be applied to real estate companies, to those responsible and to real estate intermediaries. The amendment also regulates the completion of the procedures already in place before these amendments and additions are implemented, in such a way that the procedures for the requirements for the recognition of the status of a real estate intermediary are terminated before the law enters into force, in accordance with the 2006 Real Estate Intermediation Act. We propose that the National Assembly approve the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Breda Pecan to present the report to the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all present, especially to the Secretary of State! The Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act after the Government had put the proposal into the procedure and on the proposal for consideration of the bill following a reduced procedure. However, both the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly and later the National Assembly have decided to consider the draft law on a regular basis. At the request of the Group of Members and Members, a general debate was also held at the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, after which the National Assembly decided that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. The Committee on the Environment and the Space on 5 May 2011 at its 29th meeting then addressed the proposal for a second reading law. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the State Council, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – Chambers for Real Estate Management, the Institute of Real Estate, d.o.o., and the Legislative and Legal Services of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the basic material, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Council of State, the comments of the Slovenian Consumers Association and the comments and proposals of the amendments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – the Chamber for Real Estate Management. Following the introductory explanation of the articles of the draft law by the representative of the Government, the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the position of the Council of State and the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – the Chamber for Real Estate Affairs, the committee held a discussion and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. Within a set time limit, the amendments were tabled by the Social Democrats' parliamentary groups, by Zares and DeSUS and by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia at Articles 3, 9 and 10, and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group at Article 3 of the bill. The Committee adopted an amendment to Articles 9 and 10 of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, Res and DeSUS and the LDS MPs' amendment to Article 3 of the bill. By adopting the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 3, the amendment of the four groups of Members became irrelevant. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 11, 12 and 14. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments, the Committee voted together in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 26th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to move the positions of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 May 2011. We are moving on to Article 6 and I am putting in the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? Please, Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. There is not much to say about this amendment, but a few words need to be said about why this amendment is needed. Indeed, the law itself is one of those unnecessary laws that we deal with in the National Assembly in this mandate. In fact, it doesn't bring anything, but you could say that it's probably from a certain lobby. I am pleased and also in the SDS we are pleased that we have managed to change the essential part of the content, namely, what are the commissions, which were certainly the main purpose and main content of this lobby to change this law. We have managed to change this and return it to its original state, and I could say that this is also the most important success of this debate in the National Assembly. When we changed that, that moment proved that the law as such had no value, no added value, so it was not necessary and it was only a waste of time. In view of the change in that main purpose, it is called commission — which is returned to its original state — that is to say, there is only one form left to lead to the end. It wouldn't have been wrong if the whole marriage had been rejected, nothing had been lost, but I'm not such an optimist that it would have happened. The amendment we're talking about, and then I think it's another one, it doesn't do any harm, and it won't do any good. But I could say that there could be a reminder that such laws would not be passed. One of the most resilient was that law on technical characteristics, which was later withdrawn and the minister saw that some had probably taken it to thin ice, but it was positive that she had accepted that mistake and admitted that she was probably being misled, and there probably would have been no harm. Thus, it would be best if the law were rejected, but if this is not taken into account, well as this amendment, if it is adopted, there is no harm, but there is no added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Yes, please, Aloysius Potočnik and then Franco Yuri and then Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I will discuss the same articles or the same articles as my colleague Petan. The original proposal eliminated the maximum commission allowed and the 9-month duration of the intermediate contracts, and the latter did not explicitly refer to the European Directive. This needs to be stressed, and in the Group of Members, we are particularly stressing this because in the public domain, it is a false impression that the European directive is the one that is supposed to force us in the above-mentioned amendment to the abolition of commissions. It maintains, however, that setting the highest or lowest tariffs is within the competence of the Member States. However, Member States which provide for a commission must verify and verify that these requirements are not discriminatory and that they are justified for such important reasons of public interest that they cannot be replaced by other less restrictive measures. And the opinion of the parliamentary group – and, as I know, from the debate on the Committee – is that there are very good and very legitimate reasons to speak in favour of maintaining the current regime. The protection of the public interest and the principle of consumer protection are importantly linked and interdependent. And in the given situation, it is very questionable to argue that the market itself forms the highest or lowest commission. The market, which is supposed to be based on economic logic, does not work in this area. The real estate market is very specific and cannot be compared to the banana or lemon or asparagus market. At least it is affected by consumers, the weakest, most vulnerable partner. The rules – in a poor sense – set out on this market if it can be so called, especially by investors, by construction companies that are in such or other condition, designated by banks as protected institutions and, in this regard, by the State as an important recapitaliser. Or, if you want numbers, in 1991 we were able to buy some more than 12 square metres of apartment with gross social product per inhabitant and in 2010 we were able to buy some more than 2.5 square meters. That's enough dramatic information we've done in 20 years. For similar reasons, we also advocate a limitation on the duration of the contract between contracting authorities, consumers and intermediaries, as we also assess here that consumer protection is less exposed and better protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Many things have already been said by my predecessor, Comrade Potočnik. I would also like to point out that, from the very beginning, the Zares Group has made sure that the key purpose, as called by colleague Petan, of this law, if that is – and I think that there are probably some other aspects in this law that should be regulated – but certainly was one of the key purposes of allowing this threshold to be released in real estate intervention and we have already made it clear to the Government that, by such a requirement, such a law should not come to the National Assembly. But that's what happened. We don't understand why. In fact, the Ministry of the Environment has not listened to some of the motives that we have clearly explained on various occasions and that is why the committee, with the support of all coalition groups and also the opposition, has drafted an amendment that prevents this purpose. We have listened in particular to the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and to the public interest. We have not bought the thesis that there is a need to intervene in any way in this legislation in order to release commissions on behalf of the European directives. This debate is taking place in the European Union, is intense and we can expect consumers to defend themselves and protect themselves within European institutions. However, national governments are obliged to listen to consumers, and this has happened or is happening precisely with the amendment proposed by the Committee and, of course, supported by it. As already mentioned, an attempt was made to place certain interests through new legislation also in the case of guarantees for technical products; also then, we think, the Minister reacted correctly as soon as she understood what it was actually about. We have supported it in this decision, and I am glad that the opposition – the wisdom of the decision to withdraw such a law – welcomes such a change. In particular, I would urge the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and Space to continue to listen to all parliamentary groups, in particular coalition groups, when it comes to a manifest overcoming or disregarding public interest. And in the case of commissions, the real estate market is about protecting public interest. At the moment, in times of crisis, at least what we need is some liberalisation for intermediaries, which is only for intermediaries, which, of course, could have an adverse effect on real estate prices. So we stand firm behind this amendment, stand firm for the assurances we have given to the Slovenian Consumers' Union and we hope that this law will be benignly modified, modified, and that indeed that supposed main purpose will not be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I, like my colleague Juri, will say that the amendment adopted by the committee is an amendment to Article 3, which originally provided for the deletion of Article 5 of the basic text of the law – this is also a deletion of the ceiling of the real estate intervention commission – that the committee adopted this amendment, which was the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in essence because the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party was more thorough because it had deleted the equivalent value of tolars in euros in the original text. It was just a pure, I will say, nomotechnically and according to our current currency a regulated article that was literally transposed into the amendment by deleting the euro equivalent of tolars. That was all, while the amendment of the four groups of Members was intended to delete this Article. The goals were the same, with one being a little more precise and the other being a little less precise. Of course, we are not talking about this amendment today, because paragraph 3 is no longer being attacked at the plenary session. However, it is interesting and good, I stress that on the Committee we had essentially the same attitude, both the opposition and the coalition, towards this interpretation of European legislation, that a free economic initiative must be understood in such a way that it must be completely unlimited, without any kind of consumer security. Although the commission for real estate intervention in Slovenia does not exceed two and a half to three per cent, on average it charges around 2 per cent of the commission, but it is wise and good to put a limit in the law as well as the validity of the real estate transfer contract, which is now with the law, including the amendment of the four members of the committee, limited to nine months as before. However, I would like to say that this amendment to Article 6 speaks of something else entirely. It refers to the fact that a national of a State Party or a third country may acquire status, but provided that he has not been legally unconditionally convicted of an offence against property or an economy on a prison sentence for more than 3 months, and now it is written in the law "which has not yet been deleted", this text is now deleted, as was the case with a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, and the words "who has not yet been deleted" are deleted, meaning that regardless of whether the sentence has been served and has been deleted, it still cannot be entered into the real estate broker's directory. While it is true here that this is an amendment by SD, Really and LDS members, this is, of course, based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Personally, I am not quite sure that the original amendment concerning citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is now concerning nationals of the States Parties and third countries, is in place. That is why I must say right now that I will abstain from voting because I am not sure that this is the right thing to do, and that we will in fact bring the blame of man to infinity, until the very end of his active life.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Miran Jerič has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the amendment within the second reading of both Article 6 and Article 14. I would like to point out that there have been a lot of comments within the first reading on the law itself, which the Government has submitted for first reading, particularly in terms of consumer protection. We, too, have pointed out in the position of the Group of Members that in our view it is necessary to maintain certain restrictions on the market, that is to say in the real estate market, and that we are therefore pleased that we have succeeded together – both with colleagues and colleagues of opposition parties as well as of positions – that this should be changed at the meeting of the parent working body and that these solutions have been changed in the second-reading law, that is to say that we have maintained the maximum allowable commission, that is 4%, and a maximum of 9-month duration of the intermediate contract, in particular in terms of consumer protection. Today, however, the debate is focused on the two amendments tabled by members of the coalition parties. I, on behalf of the Group of Members, predict that both the law and, of course, both the amendments will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I conclude this debate and we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in Other Defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I'm supposed to give my word to the government representative right now. I'm asking if he's on his way. The minister's on his way and he's already here. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u47	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you are present. I'm not going to talk about the law itself, because we've talked about it in this room and on the boards a lot. I will not talk about the squares of how much land we have lost and the importance of agricultural land, because I believe that everyone here, most of you, is also members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of this National Assembly, you are aware of this. But there's something else I'd like to tell you. Look, I'm just coming back from the Council of European Union Agriculture Ministers; I must say that as dark faces as they were there yesterday, there are probably no financial ministers as dark faces when they meet. What's this all about? It is obvious that the time will come when the abundance will end, including in the field of food. At this point, if you are accompanying the meetings of agricultural ministers, the last three, four months we have been dealing with topics that were not common in the European Union. We are working on where to get sugar, where to get sugar in Slovenia, where companies should get sugar, where food-producing individuals should get sugar, and we find that, simply, the EU's single market works only when plenty is present. At the moment, sugar is not available, it is available in limited quantities and our food producers for this sugar have a different price than food producers in countries that have maintained sugar production. Right now, we're dealing with wheat balance sheets. You have noticed that in Slovenia less wheat was sown at the end of the year than usual. We had air-conditioning, we had precipitation, we had wetlands, and the tractors couldn't do their job. But Slovenia is small, the balance sheet of Slovenia does not mean much at European Union level. But when we find out how many countries this has happened, then we have a balance sheet problem, and when we find that, at this point in time, major European food producers are reporting that they have problems due to drought, we find that, after a long, long period, it has happened again that we are calculating food balances in Europe, and the numbers are not such as to allow us to actually observe in peace the next day. Why is this information, honourable Members, important to you? Because the food balance always starts with a resource. When we observe food production, we observe a resource called agricultural land, which is why the law before you represents a framework to protect this resource. He doesn't answer all the questions. The adoption of this law does not mean that different times start from such times, but this law is a fence, which, in addition to other measures, some of which are already being implemented, some are being planned to allow us to change the trend in Slovenia. Therefore, honourable Members, of course, I believe that because I know you, we also participate on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I know that you understand how important food production in Slovenia is, so all I want to say to you is that when the government is different, the Minister will be different and even when you are no longer here – you will be able to keep in mind that by adopting this law you have helped to refocus the view and production of food on the right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Franco Bogovic for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u49	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law at its 30th meeting, on 22 April 2011. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly with a proposal to adopt it after a reduced procedure, but the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined on a regular basis. A general discussion was held at the 26th meeting of the National Assembly on the basis of the request of the group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic, after which the National Assembly decided that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. The draft law was also sent to the local communities in accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The opinion was forwarded by four municipalities and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. All municipalities supported the proposal of the law and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia considers that certain solutions are inadequate and should be amended. They therefore propose deleting Article 11 relating to trade in agricultural land and forests on the grounds that agricultural land is abused in the process of sale of agricultural land, as some persons with farmer status exercise the right to purchase agricultural and forestry land very far from the farm’s headquarters, which suggests that these individuals also have a speculative purpose and land does not purchase for processing purposes. The municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane does not agree with the introduction of a compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, as this will make the situation of farms worse and facilitate the further eviction of young families from rural areas. The Committee was given a written opinion on the Legislative and Legal Service and most of their comments are taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and in the amendments of the Committee. In the discussion, the representative of the service pointed out that their comments to Articles 4, 6 and 8 of the draft law had not been taken into account by the amendments tabled. However, the Service also points out that the comments to Articles 36, 37 and 38 do not constitute transitional provisions after their content and are therefore not included in the proposed legislative text. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as an interested working body, which supported the amendment of the law with some comments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, with the view of the Government to the opinion of the State Council, of the opinion of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which also supports the proposal of the law with some comments. Most of the comments of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber are taken into account in the amendments of the Committee. Representatives of all these institutions participated in the debate, and the President of the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, who supports the bill in principle, does not agree with the solution whereby compensation is given to the entire area of the plot on which the building is to be built, and not only from the background of the land or part of the land on which the intended use will actually change. The members of the Committee unanimously supported the objectives and objectives of the draft law and assessed that the proposed provisions adequately protect agricultural land from construction in such a way that potential investors travel outside the best land. The most debate was devoted to the provisions of Articles 4 and 6 of the draft law and to the amendments tabled by the SDS Group to the articles by which the Group proposes the deletion of all the articles providing for the payment of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. The members of the Committee objected to these amendments because it is undeniable that the payment of compensation is a necessary measure and it would not be possible to implement the planned forms of protection of agricultural land without the funds raised. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled. Most of the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the two amendments I have tabled as a member have been adopted by the Committee. The amendments mentioned by the SDS Group have not been adopted by the Committee, and to some amendments the Committee has not been defined because they have become irrelevant or have been withdrawn at a meeting of the Committee because of the amendments adopted. In the debate, the Committee, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, formulated and adopted some of its amendments, which are reflected in the report of the Committee. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. All amendments are included in the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you. Since the National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 26th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 May this year. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Franco Yuri. Please, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think the Minister has raised some key questions today, of course, concerning the whole law, the need to adopt this law and, indirectly, the amendments that are the subject of today's debate. The fact is that the general debate has already exposed the dramatic state of the food crisis in the world and, as a result, we. Globalisation and the so-called internal market of the European Union, of course, do not in themselves answer all the open questions that we have on the table and which threaten even with hunger. Tomorrow, if we do not know how to protect agricultural areas and if we do not know how to organise the processing of these agricultural areas, we are probably facing the worst crisis we can expect. And about this, I think, there have been a lot of warnings, a lot of communications from distinguished professional circles and, in particular, from international organisations, after all, from the European Union and the Ministers of Agriculture. So, even when we are discussing these amendments, I hope that Members will have this fact before our eyes somewhere and that in these amendments we will actually be careful not to make the principles of the key purpose of this law, this is the protection of the best agricultural areas and the further use of these areas to make Slovenia as self-sufficient as possible in the production and production of food. It sounds a little anachronistic to talk about self-sufficiency of diet, but this is the current issue, probably the most topical issue of this world. And when we talk about farming, about the protection of agricultural land, we are also talking about the new opportunities offered to our populations, especially young people. We were recently in Ajdovska, facing the problem of Fructal. Fructala's problem is not just one company's problem that someone can buy, take over and move to another country. The problem of Fructala is how to ensure development, and this sustainable development of the whole region, the Vipav Valley. If we know how to proceed with such legislation and also with a responsible attitude towards our farming-related enterprises in such a way as to safeguard the sustainable dimension of our development, then we will do the greatest service not only to our people but also to Europe. For, unfortunately, Europe will not guarantee what we have promised from the common internal market, including in the food industry and in the agricultural sectors. That is how I think that today is a beautiful opportunity to listen to the words of the Minister, who, in my view, is extremely current and who really need to put us on the real ground, and when we decide on these amendments today, we should be careful not to be the principles of the key purpose and the essence of this law. Once again, I express my support for this law, for the vision of the Minister of the Jews and for all those amendments that we have also supported on the Committee on Agriculture. I hope and really expect that this law will also create a new consciousness and that it will help us to behave boldly in the resolution and development of those industries that can provide new jobs, quality food that will provide us with such food that will not grow on some plastic networks with intensive farming, but that will grow on a healthy agricultural land, as naturally as possible, as sustainable as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I think that's the third version of the last two, three years of this marriage. Several times after those coordinations that took place within the centres, we finally awaited, after two and a half years, the law, which was very desirable and at the same time, I believe that this law is also needed. As such, the law has some very good solutions, and we welcome this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, protection of agricultural land is essential. The provision on permanent protection of agricultural land is also relevant and necessary. It also regulates the issue of the cultivation of agricultural land, which we totally disagree with, because the issue is governed primarily by criminal policy, i.e. by substantially higher penalties, and there is no difference between the cultivation of agricultural land, say, in Prekmurje or in a municipality such as Gorenja Vas - Poljane, but all of this is the same flat-rate punishment, although we know that it is more difficult to maintain agricultural areas in good condition on mountain farms. The gift contracts governed by this law are also regulated as necessary. The fact is that 80% of agricultural transport has been through gift contracts in recent years. Procedures for composting are also being regulated. This was our proposal, and I think we have already proposed it twice in the National Assembly, but it has always been rejected by reasoning that we will fully regulate it when the Agricultural Lands Act is adopted. Well, it is now included in this law exactly as much as we have suggested that, with 80% of the agreement, the matter should be reduced to 67%. But punishments are substantially increasing, and I've said something about this before. We believe that these penalties are very high, very restrictive, and we wonder if this is the right way. Now I have been talking about good solutions to this law, and the problem is the articles talking about the introduction of compensation for changing the destination of land. We've tabled two amendments that are linked, and we could say anything in this amendment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in these acute economic conditions, we oppose the introduction of any new financial obligations, because we believe that the introduction of these compensations could have a very significant impact on investors and, above all, on young families. So it's an extra financial burden. Anyone wishing to obtain a building permit will have to pay EUR 10 per square metre of compensation. This is even problematic in demographically endangered areas. A marriage article such as this, which introduces new reparations, will lead to more evictions from the village, especially to the city, and this will happen — what? There will be fewer farmland than there are now. Any additional financial burden at this time is simply unacceptable. Under this law, local communities should also develop in their municipalities in the field of sports — let us say that a gym will be built — if a health centre is to be built if a new school, a kindergarten is to be built, the municipality will have to pay €10 per square metre before it can do so. This is also pointed out in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia which oppose such a solution. We have already tried on the committee to exclude at least this part, but there was no listening. Above all, this is interesting — an explanation — why this new duty is being imposed. The committee was told that this new duty is being imposed due to uncontrolled foundations in Slovenia, that settlements are spreading madly, and that they are being built madly, etc. And here we have to stop and say clearly, who is the one who determines which agricultural land is to be built? He's making a suggestion. The Ministry of Agriculture, all these years, even during our government! The Ministry of Agriculture ultimately agrees whether or not it will be possible to build up on some agricultural land, and this is a fact. And don't talk about unsupervised building, when some municipalities have invested enormously in this part in recent years, they actually wanted investors to come and come and work — but for every such thing the Ministry of Agriculture has given consent. So it's not about unsupervised buildings. If so, then the Ministry of Agriculture has a huge responsibility for this, in fact the largest. Look, the original solution went in a completely different direction than it is now proposed. The original proposal was aimed at paying for the change in basic use from agricultural land to building land, so the payment would have been made when the land which is agricultural land would have changed to the back of the land. That's when extra profits are created. The agricultural land is worth €3.5. Suddenly it's worth it in Bar, here in Ljubljana, for example, which is suddenly worth 300, 400 euros. If you already intend to raise money, then you need to pick it up where extra profits are made. Extra profits are made at the beginning, from five euros to 400 euros. But no, you've decided to take this 10 euro per square meter investor because I have a feeling that you've realized that these are actually the only people who have some money and need to get it out. Look, this added value that happens when you change your destination, it's really enormous, and if so, then we should go there. But despite everything in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we object to any new duties being imposed. What is the point of this law or this article? Look, the compensation we're talking about is supposed to be paid by the construction investor before he gets a building permit. And the Ministry of Agriculture has identified which are the lands which are agricultural and for which compensation is to be paid. And these are all the land outside and within the areas of the settlements which, according to the records of the actual use of agricultural and forestry land, are classified among the fields, gardens, meadows, permanent crops and other agricultural areas. So also those lands that are now defined as buildings. Look, so far the proposed amount is 10 euros per square meter of construction plot. An example — for a unit building that, for example, plans to be built by a young family with low incomes and loans on a plot of 500 square metres, will have to be paid EUR 5,000 before the building permit is obtained. There's also a utility contribution to be added here and everything that fits. Now, if we add, let's say, by this logic – one young family – we add to the law on inter-neighbourly aid, when you actually shut down this neighbourhood aid as it used to be, and if we add to it the novelty of the law that is supposed to come into Parliament, the construction of buildings where you're banning construction in your own directing, then I really wonder if we're working for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. I have a feeling we've been hitting them in the pocket lately. To take away their acquired rights, to burden them with new taxes, new taxes. I'll tell her to give it to her, whatever you take, it's a new citizen tax. Whoever wants to build a house, whoever wants to do anything has to pay before they get a building permit, 10 euros a square meter. If the plot is a thousand square meters, it's 10,000 euros plus a municipal contribution, plus everything else. In these times in which we are, this is not a suitable solution. There are plenty of other, different levers to protect agricultural land. The Ministry of Agriculture has everything in its hands. Everything! If he wants to prevent building on the best agricultural land, he will adopt sub-laws where he can say "on these and they cannot be worked". But no, you need to fill the cash register, you need to get the money. You need to get the money and the money will get out of those who want to build. I think there's a reasonable doubt in this arrangement. It is difficult to believe that this law is intended for rural development by means of these articles, which refer to this compensation for change of destination. It's hard to say. In view of these new indemnities that are being introduced, I think that this will really encourage young people to start moving from village to town and that cultural landscape will not be treated as a result. Once again, we agree with a number of solutions in marriage. We agree, as I said at the beginning. But for God's sake, let's get these articles out of the way, otherwise. Do not insist on conditioning the adoption of this law or that this law enters into an active life by making it possible for those articles to be in it. I'm saying it's not true. It's not like that. We can get them out. That's what makes this marriage really good. I say, a lot of solutions are really good, but we certainly don't agree on the new taxes in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u55	Dear Member, the distinguished others are present! I thank you for your general support for this law. That means a lot to us. Allow me to explain, however, why financial compensation. This law, if there were no financial compensation, does not exist. We are probably all aware of this together because it is what is behind this law. In fact, this is how this law works. We protect agricultural land with permanent agricultural land because in fact our wealth is the largest in Slovenia, because we produce food there. However, with regard to other agricultural land, which is also worth the effort to protect, it is clear that we cannot fully impede the development of local communities, the wider community or countries as a whole. The financial compensation shall have an easy purpose. If we lose a hectare of agricultural land somewhere, the financial compensation allows us to establish a hectare of agricultural land elsewhere. But it's not the core of everything either. The essence of this is that agricultural land is to be bonusd, so let us divide it into those less suitable or almost inappropriate for agricultural production and those that are very suitable for agricultural production and, in terms of value, therefore, credit points, then compensation is to be determined. So, let's say, if we're talking about 10 euros per square meter, we're going to agree to build houses on quality agricultural land in the future. I don't think that's our goal. Our goal is to focus all construction on areas where food production is not taking place. If we look from the point of view of single-family houses, we have to say that we have exceptions. The exception is that if we build inside the village, inside the place where the plot is limited, the credit point has a value of zero. So the financial compensation is calculated, but so it's a financial impact, so it's a cost to the young family zero. I think that's very correct. Clearly, I suppose, Mr Member, that we will not propose to young families 'find the best agricultural land and build there', then what is now being seen in Slovenia will happen. If you go to the hill, what you look at, you see a scattered building that is on the best land and that agriculture has had to retreat so far. What you said about compensations is, of course, the essence of the law is an active agricultural policy, which allows agricultural land that is cultivated to be trained. That's the plus, of course. But it is true that we have bitter experience from the past; even during my term it happened that no individuals, no farmers, no natural persons come and the agricultural ministry is blackmailing with some kind of doctrine'see, we have bought, rented, basically purchased agricultural land, we have let them grow, why don't you now allow us to change our destination?".. We understand it as self-reporting. And now, Mr. Member, put yourself in the role of our inspector, who does his job properly, comes, sets out measures, and when one who is not desirable, which is even forbidden, is against the law, done, asks our inspector 'and what will happen if I do not comply with your decision?"our inspector looks at the ground and says, "you'll pay a fine of 250 euros." I hope that, even under this law, this will not happen again in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Pečanova also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Already on the committee, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has tried to eliminate those articles in the Agricultural Lands Act, which reintroduce compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, I will say again, because this is essentially a repetition of the exercise from before 2002, when it was abolished, for very understandable reasons. Indeed, for this reason — although things could be arranged differently — that the resources derived from this source were used in the integrated budgets of both the municipalities and the state and, of course, this was totally pointless. This was indeed, it was a tax that was used as any other tax in the integral budget, for the purchase of falcons, for example. Whereas the law now explicitly provides for the use of these funds to improve existing agricultural land, it is said that a change of destination to the least rated class of the modified agricultural land will be paid for on land that does not have such a rating class. I think it's the only way. When we talk about how it will be necessary for kindergartens, schools, gyms and what I know what to pay for the compensation; yes, but it clearly says in – now I don't remember which, I think, 3 hours. The article states that this compensation for these facilities and for State infrastructure facilities is 70% of other compensation. It is said that the commoner will not be forced to pay excessively high compensations, not to mention that, if anything is wise, the municipality will rather build on agricultural land, which have a very low rating class. It is said to look for degraded, low-quality, infertile and any land, not to build on the best agricultural land, where the compensation is €25 per square meter – 70%, so about three quarters, let's say, say, €18. The congregation that does this knows where it sits because it destroys the agricultural lands that are in its territory. It doesn't matter who owns them. The important thing is to keep them safe. That's one. Secondly, of course, I must say right now that both this amendment and the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party who speak that Articles 3g, 3h are being deleted. and 3.i., of course, I will vote against it and I will ask all colleagues who are concerned that agricultural land not only preserves its profitability, its fertility, but that those lands that are in the recovery that could be improved do not have the money to improve them, and that we prepare the owners to take care of their agricultural land as expected of them, as our constitution says. Our constitution states that the law ensures that the country cares about fertility and the protection of agricultural land – I do not know exactly what the text is, but if we have adopted one constitution with some objectives, among them is that we will preserve agricultural land. The fact that our self-sustainment fell from almost 80% in 1990 to 42% in 2009 and 2010, I think this suggests that we have been horribly neglected and left to smooth management, management of agricultural land as well as forests. Privately owned forests are unsustained, unexploited, are not exploited, and we can say that a large percentage of our forests, which have acquired quality in the years before 1990, are now falling apart and are made from them empty pits, but precipices, which have no value – neither cultural nor natural nor any other. I'll say it in this case, although you don't mind, Mr. Vice President, but we're all in a bit of trouble anyway. I just wanted to say something. I had prepared on the committee — those who are members of the committee — I had my amendments prepared for the law in this sense to introduce the Netherlands — and perhaps other countries, for example Germany has something similar, a little less harsh than the Dutch — that that agricultural land owner, whether it be the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund or a privateer, if the agricultural land is not in condition to him, should it be pollution, ill-treatment, non-treatment or whatever else, be taken from his property, but not from his property, and given to the one who knows and can do so. However, you told your colleagues on the committee and your colleagues – if any of them was a colleague – that this was too complicated, etc., and then, I admit, I was late for or no special will for the coalition's coalition groups to table such amendments. It's okay. There'll be a chance. I think that Slovenia needs to introduce a regime on agricultural land that will force the owner to take care of agricultural land as necessary, because otherwise I do not understand how we will ensure better self-sustainment. I know that it seems to someone that Slovenia has to worry in particular about ensuring sufficient physical security for our country before I know what enemies. I think that we ourselves are the greatest enemies, because we don't know how to make sure that we have enough from our own resources to eat and drink. Well, not wine, by the way, but water. This is a thing that we in this National Assembly, the government of this country and all citizens and citizens should take care of, this security is important. Healthy food in sufficient quantity. Not that we're buying food from China, New Zealand, South America, South Africa, and I don't know where. For this reason, I am sorry that these amendments were not even dealt with on the committee because there was no special will because we had a committee at an impossible time, by the way, and it was not particularly willing to be tortured and discussed. I think that, sooner or later, such tools should be taken into their hands, and the earth should be processed with the hands of the people who want to work it, and even if they are working a thousand hectares, it doesn't matter that they're working. Also, if they become wealthy – it is important that they process it so that we have our own food in Slovenia. And because of this, unfortunately, colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, you often have good amendments, but these amendments are over.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am reopening the application for a debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Nor will I support this amendment by the SDS Group, which removes compensation for changing the destination of agricultural land, and I think that understanding this deletion can also lead in the direction that it actually stimulates those traders with agricultural land to continue doing so. Even so, I can understand this amendment. While the explanation states that this should enable young families to get to their homes or dwellings more easily and so on, the fact is that the vast majority of young people do not have the resources to start building a residential house in their early years, but usually try to solve the housing problem first either by renting an apartment or perhaps by owning an apartment, and at some later stage they also try to do so by building an apartment. However, the fact is that at this initial stage, which you mention as being crucial, whether something is to be built or not, it is really important to warn all those who are planning to build some agricultural land in order to come to a higher cost than if they point to building elsewhere on less-quality land. And this is an extremely important message and also the fact that it is very clear in this law that the Ministry of Agriculture is also one of the holders of space regulation, so that, for example, the Fund of Agricultural Lands will be able to participate as one of those who will have an important impact on whether there will be any proposal to amend the spatial act so that some quality agricultural land will be built or not. Thus, this instrument of compensation for the change of the purpose of agricultural land is an extremely important instrument and, last but not least, as we look at it, we still find that in Slovenia there is an increase in agricultural areas and that additional resources must be provided in this area, and in particular to prepare appropriate professional grounds for us to know where we are going to invest these funds. And this law brings a solution that also makes it very clear that we need to define, even in spatial acts, the area to which these funds can also be invested. So it is an extremely organised approach, how agricultural land can be preserved and how it is possible, last but not least, to significantly reduce crop cultivation and thus recover many agricultural land or many farmland that were once such. That is why, of course, I cannot support this amendment and actually leads to Slovenia being able to lose the highest quality agricultural land within a relatively short period of time, which also means, of course, a long-term loss of interest in agriculture. But when we arrive at a time and a time when even a farmer does not survive anymore, it is truly extremely bad, and I think that everyone else, too, we do not have much chance of staying and surviving in some normal situation. So far, the farmer has survived all the systems and it would be wrong to lead by some measure to simply run out of agricultural land and thus no longer be able to grow. We need to make a substantial number of efforts to keep agriculture alive and to become more competitive, especially because we are maintaining the highest quality agricultural land, because production is also the most economical, most rational and costs least in processing. And of course, this compensation will certainly be one of those measures that will lead in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to an expert team from the Ministry! "Kranjtz! Your country is healthy, it is the right thing to do" has been written decades ago by Vodnik when he was looking from Koprivnik, with Gorjuš down, for example, towards Bohinj. The earth is certainly real and healthy, and in all these years and decades, we have not had the intelligence to control it as intelligent masters. I am pleased and convinced that today, perhaps also due to the economic crisis, the mind is something more and also a healthy thought that if a person does not have to eat and drink, all other upgrades help relatively little. There's been a lot of talk about self-sustainment. Of course, complete self-sustainment will be difficult for Slovenians and Slovenians, needs are too large and too diverse, but we can do much, including with this law. I must say that it is one of the laws that I like because it is the right way of parliamentary work. He has been preparing for many years, thoughtfully, prudently and with much conversation and negotiation, wide, well beyond the limits of the coalition. When I drove to Ljubljana this morning, I wondered what the negatives of this law could be said by those who today, because of some political culture or non-culture, scrutinize everything in order. We have heard some banality today, and let us try to answer them. That some have already tabled a law on agricultural land on several occasions, which is intended to regulate the 67% of the consent of the Commission. On the contrary, this proposal was made by the Ministry, and because of leaking insider information, the draft came into play too early and then was used twice, used three times and abused by politics. That was the whole story. Then the introduction of new taxes and new compensations. So far, trade in agricultural land has been taking advantage of private commercial, real estate, investment, construction and other occupations, but now the country will have something from what it does — a change of destination. And it is not a question of whether you are from a cake called an increased value – and I will be substantially more moderate than one of my fellow Members; indeed, for 3 to 6, 7 euros we will get to a good field there, and the average price of the building plot will come to 60, 70 euros – that of this country, like the old one, you will take a tenth. What is crucial is what we will do with this money, because we have done something out of public good, even though it is privately owned, good for this country. This is essential — what we will do with these means. And this is where consensus needs to be reached. If this is going to be the creation of new agricultural land, it is good if we solve the problem of growth or if we make strategic purchases with these land. In Slovenia, they are daily on the land market, because if they had funds and a long-term policy with a resource, these land could be purchased by the country. If the state were to own certain strategic land, agricultural land or forestry, it could avoid a number of problems in the country, and this must be done. We mayors who are now saying good-bye from Parliament are faced with such populist comments at the expense of municipal equipment on a daily basis, but the municipal contribution is not paid by someone who is building somewhere, in most cases not by half as much as the local community has invested in the equipment of the wider system. It means we've invested everyone in taxes, not just the one building the house. Someone who builds a house worth 200, 300,000 euros and almost gets hit by a stroke and knocks on the door of all the municipalities because he has to pay about 10,000 euros in municipal contributions. He'll think of it as a Mercedes, he'll have it as a new house, as a garden, not as a utility. And that this logic is fueled by another part of Slovenian politics. I have to say that I will be most happy and happy – it is a pity that I will not be in Parliament at that time – when, for two or three years after a story of political conversion, I am monitoring how everything they promise and defend today will be realized by the new authorities. I must say that this will be one of the greater pleasures and I am already carefully keeping these promises, and I note that we will then say something on this subject. It will be really nice and fun and you will see a story; dissatisfaction with politics, where we think that today we have reached one summit, will then be after that saying "whose winds are sown, the reaping wind" will be strengthened and this storm will be for those who promise irrationally in pension reforms that spoil a good agricultural reform, this wind will be a strong storm and fun then, unfortunately for Slovenia not good. One of the key stories that we also have to solve; in Slovenia we increased forestry by almost half in the 1950s. I agree that, of course, we are trying to keep those agricultural lands that we have. However, many times in law, when the pressure of investors is "if you don't let me build in the field, on the lawn which is intended for food, show me other locations". I think that now is also the time when this legislation will be adopted to specifically sit with the forestry profession, because also the forestry sector is often too hard for these attacks on the edges of forest land or on bad forest land. Some legislation, agricultural forestry, even agricultural land – I think after 30 years – which has grown itself, is treated like a forest. If there is any area that is strategic, it is certainly the area that was once agricultural and it has been torn out of the agricultural use of the forest to go back to those areas and to expand settlements or facilities — public, economic or other infrastructure — to those lands that are foresty, in particular to preserve others. What has happened to us is that we publicly boast that in the vicinity of Ljubljana against the Command there is one of the largest industrial zones in the country, on the land where the best potatoes we used to grow, with which we supported all the former Yugoslavia, and another part of Europe, that was certainly wrong. However, if any of the bad forests were used for this purpose — of course, forests that do not perform this protective function — this would certainly be a different and better story and we certainly have these options. However, as far as this is concerned, as well as legislation, sub-legislative acts and spatial planning, it is necessary to have a door, a space for those who are farmers. Today is an absurd situation; within the farms in the settlements, residential houses have been built in their gardens for their relatives, friends, acquaintances or random buyers, the agricultural space within the settlements has been reduced and what was 20, 30 years ago, for example, a solid farm, today is such a small farm that it is no longer competitive, and these farms are looking for space. However, we need to allow them to be able, if they are perspectives, if the assessments of the services are such and if they are indeed farmers, to move out of the settlements, but only farms, to move out of the settlements and to carry out their activities there on purpose. This will also avoid conflicts. I know a couple of villages where 50 years ago there was no other farm than the farm itself, then other tenants came and today the story was put on the head. Those first settlers, farmers, are being chased by gardeners and weekenders because of the smell of agricultural surfaces, fertilizers and more. And that some farm, which has more than 100 head of livestock, has been searching for a new location for a decade, and we don't legally allow it, that's definitely wrong. This kind of thing that goes well is the right thing to do, and we must definitely support it. As far as I am concerned, as well as the Member Club, we will support this law, because one of the first real steps in the right direction, and we, in this area, also in the legislation involved, still have a huge, huge work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u63	Have a nice hello to everyone again! I can say that I am pleased that today the announcement of the Minister, and also the general climate in society, both in Slovenia and around the world, has changed significantly, and that the real humanity today realizes that the worst crisis facing humanity in the face of continuous population growth, with climate change, is certainly a crisis with food security, says by producing enough – quantitative – food and also, as regards the quality of health parameters, health food. I was not a part of this alone for a long time in another omizima, the echoes were when we met with the former minister, a very recognised economist in Slovenia, Mr Max Tynikar, and his statement was that the national interest in nutrition was cheap food on the trade policy. I think it's bad for two years, and I'm really glad that the world situation has shown that this is a false claim and that we have to do something different about food. And also, as I have already said, I think that we have done something in this House and together with the Government that this awareness has come between Slovenians and Slovenians. I hope that the National Assembly will take this into account when deciding on different laws. You have the first chance, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow when we talk about the Income Act, which bureaucratises, extra taxes and according to the position of the Ministry of Finance, which issued this position on behalf of the Government, taxes mainly large rich farmers, those who produce enough food. I hope you have enough wisdom tomorrow to decide, not just today. As far as this law is concerned, I must say that the most important thing for me is that the law speaks very clearly about the permanent protection of certain agricultural land, that some of the land for these next ten years is untouchable, and that other agricultural land for future use will also create more acute conditions, in particular to update the situation that all of these land is to be re-examined, because these agro-cards are over 20 years old and in this part indeed need to be updated and resources derived from this law are also earmarked. Another very important thing about this law is that it sets up instruments for easier establishment of land-book operations, such as: coma, irrigation, reduction of growth and so on. And on the other hand, to also establish a source for these operations, this is exactly the compensation for the change of destination. It is also important that this resource may also be used for the purchase of agricultural land by the Fund of Agricultural Lands. Perhaps in this work, as far as the fund is concerned and land policy is concerned, I miss perhaps even a more proactive policy of the Fund in order for it, either in this law or in any other, to be given these tasks to truly ensure that as much quality health food is produced on the State land as possible. On the other hand, that this may also be measures for the rounding up of farms which are witnessing ever-increasing demands, as regards the economies, that these farms could increase and that they would remain competitive, or that the younger generation would not take over such farms – if they included the state land in part, I think that a large number of farms could be kept more – and the active policy of the Fund in the purchase of those lands that are not slowly being processed due to demographic structure is said to be the age structure of the owners. And here I think that with some instruments, the fund could be even more serious. Otherwise, in this law, I think that the measures to prevent healing are those which are very important. It is important to regulate the area of gift contracts. We know that so far about 80% of agricultural land has been made available, transport has been made on the basis of gift contracts. On another occasion, I myself said that we are not so generous as to give so many agricultural land, but it is speculative purchases where those who are speculators with these lands are in order to avoid farmers, neighbors of those who have a priority order under this law. In this part, those who are relatives, as well as the congregations and the State, are in favor, but the rest must follow the order set out in the law. As far as the amendment is concerned to change the area around the change in the destination of agricultural land, I can say that I am in favour of such an arrangement as it is in the law, and I will also try to justify why we support it. In 2002, 2003, when the highway cross was on the march, the then environmental minister, Mr Kopač, withdrew this provision from the legislation and then many of the agricultural land was built – first for motorways and then for other purposes. And this path, as we can see, goes too far, too brutally into these agricultural lands, in one way or another. That it is right to pay this compensation when issuing a building permit there, I think that one of the basic reasons is that we are practically preventing this and in some way putting this burden on every first attack on the agricultural land. If we had adopted a different provision to pay this at the time of the change of destination, that is to say at the time of the adoption of the UN, only in the case mentioned several times – the Ljubljana case – would have the entire motorway cross adopted today. And in Ljubljana, this change would no longer be paid for. While many other municipalities do not even have accepted municipal spatial plans and because some of us are still mayors and Members, we also know how the historical whole type of agricultural land has been altered for purpose and are still in nature today, the use of agricultural land would not be burdened by this burden, and we think that, personally, it is a more acute measure, but a measure with the primary aim of protecting agricultural land. As far as the recipients are concerned, since there is a change that has previously been the recipients of the congregation, today is the state, I think that — those who are still manifest to us many times today to represent the interests of the congregation — would be here on a certain level, apparently, that once again the congregations will be changing the land on purpose, in order to collect that tax, is said to be no longer the national income. On the other hand, it is important that, in such a way, indeed from those environments, the centres where there are more of these changes, where there are more investments, are said to be in urban centres and at stronger economic centres, where more of these changes of destination will be collected and this will thus be allocated to rural areas and to areas where agricultural use is needed for agrarian operations. I am pleased that, with the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, we have been able to correct this law to the extent that it has indeed been taken into account that in lands with lower ratings, up to 40, the duty for municipalities, the country is only 70%, is said to be school facilities, for culture, for health care and the like. And what I think is even more important for us to say is that for agricultural facilities it is in line with the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, this duty is new only 10% of that potential benefit for other uses, which I think is perfectly normal. For, as we have said, the money we raise in this way is meant to promote agriculture. And I don't know why a farmer would first pick up a hundred percent destination if he was building an agricultural facility, and the country would have the money. I think that's the right decision. As far as payment is concerned; I think it is right that we are right to say that payment is growing with only the credit rating land and these ratings are increasing according to quality. Lands with lower ratings are actually paid less. For the best then, these receipts are from 10 euros forward, all the way to 25. The basic intention of this progressive scale is to aim for as much building as possible, if any, to occur on lower-quality land. Thus, with a rating of between 1 and 20, this duty will be from 0,05, which is between 5 cents and 1 euro. With a rating of 21 to 40, the duty ranges from 3.78 to 7.2 euros, with a rating of 41 to 60 is 8.2 to 12 euros, and from here on – 61 to 75 is from 13.42 to 16.5 and with a rating of 76 to 100 from 19 to 25 euros. So the main goal of this law is that whoever chooses where to build the agricultural land is trying to find the agricultural land with the lowest rating, it is said where the land's birth potential is lowest. As I said before, all these benefits are in line with the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party that farmers pay only 10% of this amount for agricultural facilities and that they are also 30% relief for public facilities. Personally and also in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this law, because I think it is certain that in this area agricultural land protection and food care must be made from general Flossules and general statements, if necessary, to concrete actions. And we view this law as the first concrete action in this direction. We allow life to show that there is a need for further correction. I hope that the National Assembly, in whatever form it will be and whenever it will, will find out and do so quickly. Once again, our support for the amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we consider whether to support an amendment or not, we urgently face these amendments with the law as a whole and with the goals that this law pursues. Then it is crucial whether we support or not any individual amendment. As I understand the objectives of this law is the first objective, at least for me, I hope that I am reading this law, to increase agricultural areas. The second objective is to at least preserve the surfaces we have. The third objective – if we have to make sacrifices somewhere, we need to make sure that we replace these areas with equivalent ones. These three objectives are complemented by the objective of regulating the direction of spatial regulation by having the first three objectives in mind. So whenever we regulate space, we should also have in mind the interests of preserving and increasing agricultural areas. And then, of course, let us face this with the measures that are proposed. And a measure called compensation is a measure that follows these objectives. The proposed amendment is disassociating all these objectives. Nor does it increase agricultural surfaces, nor does it worry about maintaining them, nor does it worry about replacing them, since even compensation would not be available and should, for example, replace them from some other sources that would be collected elsewhere in the integrated budget. If we view it this way, of course, the amendment goes directly beyond the basic objectives of the law. Those who support the law may not be able to break such amendments because, while they are at odds with themselves, they cannot follow the law and listen to it at the same time to cut down its financial legs. The second thing that annoys me a little bit about thinking is this. If we are looking for an alibi for young families and young investors, etc., it is entirely irrelevant to my judgment whether on agricultural land is being built by someone who is young, old, who is disabled, someone who is not, because this is about agricultural land and we must not waste the possibility of accessing agricultural land and changing destination to building land, redirecting the ambitions of many builders to go to agricultural land, but that is exactly what would happen with this amendment. If we have land at a 50-unit line and on the other side of the road, the building plot is only worth 5 units, and then we add 10 units to these 5 units, let's say we take a category, there's 35 units of difference left. And if the price is crucial to where we're going to build, then it's clear that everyone is going to run to where this price is so low and that we're going to leave the land for construction empty and exploit those who don't have direct costs for a builder, young or old, and they have multiple costs that show up at macro level. When we talk about strategic goals, we should also keep this in mind. It is only for this reason that I think we should really do everything in order to aim at filling those building plots, that is, building, filling the building plots that are available, and preserving what is still capable of food production. The third problem that makes me think is this. When an agricultural land is transformed into a building, long-term procedures must be carried out, they were mentioned earlier, and these procedures are also very expensive. The change in municipal spatial plans is very expensive, the change of destination cannot be made with a mayor’s decision or his decision. These procedures must be carried out. They are expensive and invest in these procedures of the congregation. The local community has the costs of changing destination, and then the duty, which is a question whether it covers all these costs or not, is intended for the country and those basic costs are the local community which it has, which are in fact, which are in fact, which can be shown back to what they are, cannot be accounted for directly. I don't think that's the best solution. Otherwise, the local community can get these funds back through indirect measures, but I think that we should also enable local communities to also allow the direct costs that they had with the change of destination and of which there is nothing to do – the owners then cash out or the real estate intermediaries – so the municipality should have the opportunity to recover those costs as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I'd say first of all I'd support the amendment. But the other thing I'd like to say to start with is that I always cut my ears when big words start falling on some protection, which doesn't matter what it is or who it is. I know from experience that there is a need to pay attention, because if there is any concern that continues, then there is no need for any campaign. But if some concern is not continuous, if we jump from one hill to another, from one extreme to another, then people need to be convinced that it is eight o’clock in the morning or eight o’clock in the evening. Because if everything's normal, and we know it's 8:00 in the morning, then no one needs to be convinced that it's 8:00 in the morning. And that's the problem. Now the big words of environmental concern are falling again. What do we mean now that, I don't know, 5, 10, 20 years there was no concern for agricultural land, at the same time for the environment? Wasn't there anything to worry about? But those ministers who were before and all the employees at the Ministry of Agriculture weren't worried?Oh, my God! Right now, all of a sudden, we remembered that we had to start worrying. I mean, it just doesn't work that way. I can't believe they didn't worry before, and now all of a sudden we're gonna start worrying. Something doesn't work out here. The other thing I'd like to say is that I'm against all the new taxes, so typically bureaucratic. If you want to build here in addition to everything you have to pay, you'll pay a tax or a tax, whatever it's called going into some kind of fund. I'm against it, at least at this time. Moreover, I simply cannot understand, at least it was possible to understand from the discussions of some colleagues today that everyone would like to build on cheap agricultural land. Show me where it's possible to build on agricultural land. I don't know, because first of all, even if it's agricultural land, it has to be recategorised. However, the procedure for recategorisation of agricultural land is such that, I don't know, the last few years are simply not possible. Nor is it where, due to an error in the land book or due to the carelessness of the owner in the middle of the town where the intersection was, there was a beam, and it is also now going to go with a tree, and there is still a agricultural land which the Ministry of Agriculture does not recategorize as essentially road land. This is not possible, but I am now wondering how it is possible to obtain consent and who will agree to recategorize the agricultural land and so far we have built on the best agricultural land. Yeah, who gave the consent?Oh, my God! You don't get it on the Tromosts under the bridge. Someone has to give their consent to who took care of it? Yeah, some government officials at some department. It is therefore surprising that we have suddenly found that we have to take care of agricultural land, because we are likely to be so far. And now it will be the same one that eventually allowed, if possible, I do not say that it was true that we were building the best land, but now it will make sure that they will no longer be built. The same one will give his consent, or he will no longer give them. Then we have to ask ourselves what was really going on, but I'm sure that's not exactly what it was. The next thing I want to say is that this additional tax or duty is certainly the most directed towards the countryside itself. We have a bunch of cases where someone who is a farmer, a farmer, is working the land, wants to build a new facility – what I know if he is also dealing with farm tourism – but he can't build it because you say, "Here, here's the agricultural land that's uninhabitable." Yeah, what then? We know that today there are additional activities, and it is tourism that gives the highest added value in relation to agriculture that cannot build a room. He can't. Now, is this a bureaucratic approach or any other, concern for the land? That's what it says, that farmer is probably going to end up, and then what's going to happen, one day, it's going to become an area where there's no more agricultural production? Yeah, well, that's where we can build. That's the logic. This is said to be the most targeted measures against rural areas where individual investors, as mentioned earlier, are, say, young families, because in the city itself, there are no individual investors, because you cannot build. There or you go to the apartment block, which is built by someone else, and they have all the money they want, they can pay more than 10 euros per square meter. In the countryside this comes into play, there is no such thing as a big city, there are no individual investors. And the next thing I want to say. This money will go into the fund or whatever it's called. You know, there's a big cross with these funds. We've been working in this room for the last three months with one other fund – for the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant, because the board of directors, and the board of directors, I don't know what else. That money for decommissioning a nuke should only be for decommissioning. No, the new management lends it to buy shares or to help their friends in some other companies that have nothing to do with it. These are the funds that have the money. Now don't tell me that's not true. And how true it is, and people resign from this fund because they say, "You can't do that." And you think it'll be better if there's another fund? It's one thing if he runs real estate and another if you have money. And then, if there is a wish, perhaps from outside this fund – I do not say that they are members of this fund – but from the outside there is a desire to spend that money for something different. I will say again – the nuclear decommissioning fund finances the purchases of printing companies' shares, if you want, from the graphic industry, not to mention names. It'll be the same here. Why not be the same — if it can be there, it can be here. Examples are drawn. And that's why funds like that bother me because they don't lead to what's necessary. In this intense concern that we have suddenly come to know what is right, but it will have to be continuous, not contentious, much talk about self - care. That's right. This is really a problem that arose in Slovenia, and now I do not know if there was any concern for agricultural land at that time, and we have fallen so low in self-sustainment – below 50%. In addition, we should ask ourselves something else. In his presentation, the minister often mentioned sugar. Sugar that at this point is a problem on the European market, that it is too small. Those of you who have been here for a little longer in Parliament will remember that just over ten years ago we spoke about how Europe is drowning in sugar, and that I need not know what to stop, which factories all must be stopped. Among other things, ours was abolished, but not because we wanted to, but because those who needed to care for production were the cooperatives that were the only owners of the sugar factory in Slovenia, sold their shares to little Dutch people, so the Dutch then reached over 50% and then set their conditions at that time. And now all of a sudden, the Dutch don't have any more sugar. Hello! And I agree with those who say that, as the Minister has said, that agricultural policy in Europe only works when there is too much. But when it's not, it's a problem. But that means that even then it doesn't work, because it obviously doesn't set the right solutions and the right conditions and the right way forward. Apparently, some others are in charge of this policy. And at every summit like this, someone deserves a fall. Or concentration, someone goes down, concentration comes up, someone buys cheap, and then, of course, rapes the market. And it's obvious that now too – I'm not sure that sugar is missing in Europe because it would run out overnight – this is again a very topical matter. It's wheat and stuff. It's similar to wheat. It was said two years ago that Russia is an importer of cereals, and today it is said that it is an exporter. Now I don't know what they're going to agree on and who's speculating here. As far as forest care is concerned – because it has been mentioned today and is not an object, but to some extent – I have not seen such disasters as today in state forests managed by those who have received concessions. And if at this moment individual forest owners, real farmers, are taking these forests towards the jungles, I said thank God! Because what is done in state forests, those with concessions, not to mention that these are silent societies that are much talked about, is then a disaster in state forests. Catastrophe! Why don't you go out to the field and you'll see? And if there are farmers who care for their forest, for their growth, and that they may not take advantage of the entire annual growth, thank God, because at least a little bit of balance between what is happening in state forests with these concessions that are so cheap that they are free. However, for 10 years or 15 years there were no concessions paid to the State in any way in the state forests. This is also one of the states of concern for land. The forests are, in fact, agricultural land. And now, if we go back to where the care of agricultural land should be not to be built. The fact is, I'm not sure that if we take the other 10 euros from the investor if he wants to build, maybe it would be more appropriate to take away the one who somehow acquired the land that acquired the recategorization, and if he were to pay it, that's the other thing. So I mentioned that this is directed at the countryside, because the builder will have to pay extra, and the one who tampered with the land, and, I'll say, get a recategorization – this is not necessarily that investor — it would be fairer for him to pay. But this is the case in the real estate market – everywhere in Europe, for example, if I don't go any further, the real estate has fallen during this time of crisis. Did they fall in Slovenia? The figs are down. Some even said they'd grow. Now they've found that they probably won't grow up, but they won't. And the state didn't intervene here either, but that's another story. This is said to be the case in this area, too, because we obviously take those who already have one or the other, those who earn a huge amount of money in some transaction, and those who are left without having to give anything else. But hit whoever's trying there, and I'd like to build a modest house. Neighbouring aids should no longer be available, and hairdressers could possibly help build houses, and builders could then cut the owner’s hair. Something doesn't go together with this whole concern, so I'm not sure that this strong concern that has arisen in this form, I say in this form, will achieve its purpose, because it will strike again after what we may not want, or maybe in that intense desire for protection, in this case land, we were a little awkward or whatever. Basically, let me finish. Every such intense concern that occurs every so long worries me, because it has never given me a good solution, but only a continuous process anywhere — in this case caring for the farmland — is the one that can produce a good result. In no case do I support new investor charges. And besides, if that's already meant, then I think there's a big difference between individual builders — the one who's building his own house — and the big investors who're building for the market. There's a big difference, and I think there should be some distinction here, some separation between who we're going to tax. This way, I think it will hit the most deserving, and at a time when we are in some economic stalemate and even when construction is in terrible decline, it is likely that everyone, including individual construction, is welcome and that is exactly what we will hit the most on this side. If anyone has an interest in this, I don't know. But it certainly isn't good and it doesn't work out well for the whole economy. It is also a mistake to count on only a few donations to put something into the state budget. And I think we should learn something from the global economies, too, that governments that wanted to drive their country's economy out of the crisis had initially given way to little in taxes. This is very interesting, to give in to taxes, and then economic activity starts to grow. This is, of course, confused with some other logic, some other time, some other system. I think we're going to have to start thinking in that sense. If we want to wake the economy, we'll have to leave them alone if we don't cut taxes. At least say "10 euros per square metre for the investor who will start building something". I am aware that this concern is justified and I would hope to say that it is probably well-intentioned, but as it was done, I am not exactly optimistic. However, I certainly support this amendment that we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry, Mrs Strniša, spoke. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u69	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me a brief explanation of the financial compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. Once again, I would like to point out that this is not a tax, but that these funds will be collected on a specific dedicated budget item, i.e. not in line with it, and can be used by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is clearly stated in the law, only for the implementation of land policy measures. This is for the eradication of vegetation, for agrarian operations, but these funds can also be used for the purchase of agricultural land under the Agricultural Land Fund programme. This budget item will also allow for the financing of the cost of the preparation of the professional basis, which is one of the foundations of this law for more professional and planned management of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, colleagues and colleagues! Although a little late, and therefore more frankly, we could accompany the efforts of the Minister of Agriculture and his fellow workers to preserve agricultural land. Let me also say in the introduction that I support the purpose and objectives of this law, because agricultural land, especially quality agricultural land, is valuable and must certainly be protected and protected. It is a pity that in the past some effective mechanisms have not been put in place to maintain this quality agricultural land and that it is now trying to resolve this or make up for it, I will say, more rigorous measures such as, for example, one such, the payment of this compensation for changing the destination of agricultural land. This tax or contribution, as the Secretary of State said, has already been abolished and I think it was abolished in 2002. For some reasons, colleagues have already said, but it has probably been removed because I think it was not effective, and I also miss a quality analysis of this contribution, what effects it had when it was valid, why it had been discontinued and also how the matter took place after this contribution was abolished. The fact is that some individuals, at the expense of agricultural land or agricultural land trading, have served with a gratification, I can also say that they have become rich in this way, through the purchase of agricultural land. But I think the reasons are somewhere else. Those who have already speculated about agricultural land and trade will also do so in the future, because I find it difficult to believe that they will find it difficult to pay these 10 euros per hectare on average. However, this will certainly be a greater burden for someone, as has already been pointed out in the debate, who would like to build a home, a house on land, which otherwise belongs to a category of agricultural land, but, for example, is not suitable for any type of agricultural activity. Finally, I must say that I am skeptical and do not believe that this law is based solely on this contribution. Since, theoretically, despite this contribution, the payment of compensation for the change of destination for land could, in this way, be destroyed forever on agricultural land, it is important that this compensation be paid. I believe that this will also look different in practice, and it has already been said that solutions in land construction will be sought with poorer ratings, but also this option theoretically exists. Nor do I believe that the country with the funds raised under this heading will be able to replace the lost agricultural land in this way. I believe that this law will also be adopted, and if I am wrong, if practice shows otherwise, of course I will be happy. Let me conclude and say that I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, both to Article 4 and Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you. Anybody else want some? I can see the hands. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Since some concerns were expressed by Members of the SDS Group, whether such conditions are indeed such as to lose agricultural land in Slovenia, that action should be taken; the statistics accompanying the event and having officially published the data from 1991 to 2009 are inexcusable here. The fact is that during this period the volume of agricultural land in consumption decreased by 93 000 hectares, so from 1991 to 2009, we lost 93,000 hectares of agricultural land in use. If we look at statistics that also talk about the highest quality agricultural land — that is, farmland, fields and gardens — we have lost only fields and gardens for 20,000 hectares during this period. This is an irrefutable information which I think is very clear about the fact that, during this period, agricultural land has not been managed rationally and that it has been unduly affected by agricultural land, even if you want to, by investors. If such a trend were to continue, then we would have come to a period when certainly agriculture in Slovenia would no longer be a promising sector. I hope we don't want a country when we have this situation. In fact, the key information is that in Slovenia we have only 2 thousand 447 square metres of agricultural land in use per capita. But if we look again at the fields and gardens, we have only 866 square meters per inhabitant. So it is a truly extremely drastic reduction in the highest quality agricultural areas. In addition, once you have lost the highest quality soil, it means that you can grow on less suitable agricultural land and therefore this treatment and production is significantly more expensive, which means that we are also improving the status of farmers in relation to other countries that still have less quality agricultural areas in use. If we also look at the level of self-sustainment of plant products, we can find, on the basis of the calculation of the Agricultural Institute, that we are here somewhere between 33% and 70% of self-sustainment, so for some plant products we are only 33% providing self-sustainment and slowly becoming dependent on others. So it is an extremely serious issue of conservation of agricultural areas, and I think it is really much smarter that all future investors be directed to those areas that are less suitable for agricultural processing than they were in 1991-2009. On the one hand, when we are satisfied that we are living in a period when our existence can be resolved not only to deal with agriculture, but also to have the opportunity to work in other areas, of course this implies that if you want to preserve agricultural surfaces, you must also cut down some additional donation to prevent it. If we were still living today in a period where the vast majority of the population in Slovenia were dependent on its agricultural area and that its survival was actually connected to this particular field and to those areas, no one thought about putting their house on the field. Far from it. History proves that these buildings were always built on slopes and on surfaces that are of poorer quality. Today, we are no longer in this period of happiness, but then because the economic power of the population is significantly greater than then, it is necessary to intervene with additional financial measures to prevent this and thus, of course, preserve the long-term existence of the image of Slovenia, which is unique as regards other countries in the European Union, because we have the farthest inhabited village compared to other countries of the European Union, and this must be preserved. And only by maintaining the agricultural surfaces will we succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. I think there is another topic that needs to be opened here, which is crucial for the loss of agricultural land. Education in Slovenia is the biggest problem, not uncontrolled building. Cropping agricultural land is a bigger problem than this. And the cultivation of agricultural land, I don't know if we're going to save 10 euros from a square meter. That's the main problem. And this is where we need to find solutions. To talk about losing quality agricultural land if this new tax is not introduced – 10 euros per square metre of walled land before obtaining a building permit – is simply not true. The Ministry of Agriculture has scissors and linen. They may draw up a law limiting otherwise, not on the basis of some financial compensation or whatever. Look, even so far, the Ministry of Agriculture has finally given its consent, not in the end, in the process. That's what's been done so far. But now we find that it was growing to a great extent, in fact, that it was growing and that it was building up uncontrollably. And with regard to uncontrolled building, it should be said that the Ministry of Agriculture is the one who in some way also regulates space and determines under what conditions and where something can be built. With regard to the question about shoppers and the profits discussed earlier by colleague Weber – and I said later – I will announce that, as if by this amendment, we are giving these people an opportunity to make extra money. Wait a minute. I'll explain the procedure to the congregation. You've been mayor for years; I don't believe you're coming to a farmer who has 10,000 square meters of agricultural land and says, "I want to change this because I want to do something here." I don't believe there's very few of them. There comes a lobbyist, someone who bought 10,000 square metres from this farmer at a very low price – and even if he gave him 10 euros, there is a lot of money for one farmer. And then in the congregation, he regulates how and how things will be brought down. And that's how it's done. So, those who come to the mayors or to the wards for space, they should, if they were looking for money, they should get that money. Because they will make €200 or €300 out of €10. If we want to, and you're talking about getting the money. I'm not saying that municipalities have to pay, no, those who come, those who are investors. Take a look in Ljubljana – and the whole of Ljubljana, around the entire ring were picked up by the mayor's sons, things were reclassified, here are the crazy profits, and now those who got the crazy profits will sell these lands and those who buy this land will have to pay another 10 euros per square meter before they get the building permit. This is the wrong world! And I think that the first version that the minister had already talked about the last time that it really was that, in the stage of change, a replacement was a better solution if we have to do this. But once again, I say, it's different again. See, 10 euros in Ljubljana from the square meter and 10 euros in Kočev is a big difference. Is that right? A big difference for agricultural land. But no, we'll be right behind. The same is true of Prekmurje and Ljubljana. 10 euros per square meter, that's not right. It's not right. Whatever you're taking, not in these times we live in. And I think it's only right that these amendments of ours should be accepted, because this is actually going to eliminate this new tax that is being introduced by law. But the fact that someone earlier said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we reject every law proposed by this government is simply not true. From the beginning, I said that this law is excellent in certain parts, very well prepared, but all that was done with the hand before is with the buttocks when such an article is introduced, in fact, a new tax. The new tax of 10 euros per square metre will have to be paid by anyone who wants a building permit. And this is unacceptable for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party in these times as we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you. The word has Replica, I'll choose Mr. Weber. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you. Well, with regard to the attitude towards those trading in agricultural land, I have exactly the same opinion as Mr Hrovat presented, so there are no differences in what I have defined, what is the purpose of the compensation for changing the destination of agricultural land. Once again, I would like to point out that this law already wishes to prevent a trader from going to the farmer at all, buying this agricultural land and then trying to make a change of destination. It is precisely this duty that discourages or substantially reduces any thought of interfering with the best agricultural land. And in the beginning, it has to be prevented, and that's exactly what this law does. But if we don't have this benefit, then of course this interest will be as it has been before. And it has been proven that so far it has been of great interest that shoppers have been buying land from farmers. And I say that one of the concrete cases with which the current authorities, and also for several years, have been involved, is the Škofljica Oblast. Why is Škofljica insisting on setting up the transport of Škofljica along the Barian agricultural land? I am sure that during these years — five or more years of this process — a number of farmers have bought off the land and want to have the fence run right where they bought the land. And we need to change this, and this law actually has a mechanism to deter these attempts and, last but not least, the status of the Ministry of Agriculture is very clear in these procedures when changing the destination of agricultural land or in the adoption of spatial acts. From the very beginning, the ministry will be one of the providers of space regulation and it will not be possible to reach the best agricultural land for construction past the ministry. There's no way. And this is that mechanism, so we are not only talking about the fact that the compensation for the change of destination is the only measure; even if the Ministry is actively involved in these procedures, it is a concrete measure that will prevent us from thinking at first about some of the interventions being carried out on the best agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u79	Nice greeting to all in attendance! I've already signed up in the first round, and the technique has failed the obvious or parliamentary cretin, and obviously we have it here too. We'll catch him and we'll talk to him, no violence. But now, on a more serious subject. The fall of self-sustainment is indeed a serious problem for Slovenia. It is linked to, as we have heard many times before, the conservation of agricultural land or the increase of this fund. Consciousness has come, but there is also a law that is basically very good, and we have already highlighted some dilemmas today. A nation or a wider country that does not know how to preserve its natural heritage is not well written. In fact, there is a broader problem, the collapse of the real sector of the Slovenian economy. How will we talk about the sovereignty of Slovenia? If the real sector falls so drasticly, we will only be a branch of some foreign corporations, so that agricultural land will go away or be increased, and the worse the problem is that what we produce is still not possible to sell due to imports of low-cost products. But we also hear and read every day how those companies that work for us take over, the profits go elsewhere. In short, the real sector is at great risk. I've put the matter a little wider, and then I'll go back to the amendments. The amendments, including the SDS, point to a fact: 10 euros can be a problem for a farmer who has his own land, if he wants to build something on it, and on the other hand, for a speculator, that may not be a problem if the land is later marketed. Perhaps in this situation, when it is not so intensively built, it is not yet, but the speculators will also find these 10 euros and convince the farmer to ransom. It's a good thing the Ministry is careful about this, because at only the price, we may not be able to protect the best land from redemption. However, as Mr Horvat has already said, also in the area of growth, but here with appropriate tax policy, tax policy should stimulate and also penalise those who mistreat their lands with serious tax policy to encourage this healing process not to continue. [[...]] I do believe that even more than banning control, the relevant tax policy can make much more useful. A brief analogy – also a small job issue for an indefinite period of time. Of course, if the state stimulates short forms of employment, which are half the cost of regular employment, let us not expect employers to work regularly. And even here, if there is no proper tax stimulation, that is, sanctioning those who do not care about land and mismanagement, we cannot be expected. So, the Minister himself said that the law does not solve all questions positively, so we will also support these laws in our group, and the trend that the Minister has designed and is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening a recommission for discussion. Check-in is on. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. As we follow the discussions on agriculture and agricultural areas, agricultural land and the fate of the Slovenian countryside, which is largely linked to farmers, one wonders who preserves Slovenian rural areas – either citizens, bureaucrats or farmers. First of all, we have to ask ourselves why we have less and less farmers. Secondly, why is agricultural land ever less? Why is the surfaces being treated less and less? Then, for example, we can ask ourselves whether the measures we take are an appropriate response to these problems, that is to say, rurally, those active people who preserve the cultural landscape are disappearing to reduce the number of properties so that nothing happens on the other side of the concentration, etc., that we grow a cultural landscape. That's the key problem. The moment we have an answer to these fundamental questions, we could also plan measures to actually happen what you at the declaration level say will happen to such or other law. Something big probably won't happen. For example, the question of the green border; are we in a position to maintain a green border through this state policy, government policy, or perhaps previous governments? I don't think we did. In fact, no good measures have been taken to stimulate the processing of agricultural areas and to stimulate production and production in this agricultural field. I think that we have not taken any appropriate measures or measures to preserve agricultural areas – the best or the second level – so trends are going in a completely opposite direction. The more we adopt a protective law, the more it decreases on the other side of what this law is actually meant to protect. I would only like to draw your attention to some of the things that we have adopted in this mandate, but they are going in the very opposite direction to what we are talking about in the countryside and what we would like to achieve with rural action — if it is true that these intentions are sincere. First of all, I'd like to warn you that we've accepted the restrictions on inter-neighbourly aid. That there is a law in the procedure, we will decide even at the referendum where the restrictions on inter-neighbourly aid have been adopted. This measure has, in any event, been affected by the fact that matters in this area have certainly not been released, but have been limited. Then forward, the government proposes restrictions on the construction of buildings. So far, citizens, citizens, investors have been able to build buildings up to 250 square meters in their own directing, but now the government has introduced a law in which you can only build an object up to 30 square meters in your own directing; that means you can make a little better dog with three boxes. This is the result of this rural stimulus measure. And neighbourhood aid and self-direction are typical rural-related measures. To the extent possible, this will be taken into account in rural areas. In Ljubljana, where some ten or ten residential blocks are built, construction in its own direction is not or is very limited. In a rural area where this is not the case where the picture is inverse, more or less everything is based on the construction of individual apartment houses and on the inter-neighbourly assistance and construction of buildings in its own direction. And two such difficult measures have been proposed in a short period of time, within a few months. Then, say, a marriage was passed yesterday. Like the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. This law is typically directed towards rural areas, and you do not have any mayor from city municipalities who would also be an MP. The only representatives coming, for example, who have the mayoral and parliamentary functions, are the mayors who are from the countryside. And by eliminating them by this measure, you have excluded an important part of the countryside from being present at national level. All measures, gentlemen, the government, the ministers you accept are aimed at urbanisation and deagraisation, to ensure that the interests of small local environments are not heard in the National Assembly, that no one is represented. The Law on Elections to the National Assembly, prepared by the Government, is also made by excluding them from the procedure or from participation in the National Assembly of Small Locations, so to speak, peripheral locations. It is difficult to say that you are very much in favour of rural areas if you are taking key measures designed primarily to create a problem in rural areas. You passed the pension law. That's where the state pension is due. Tell me if you predicted for farmers a higher, lower or equal state pension than before. I would like to remind you that we have accepted significantly more favourable conditions as regards pensions and additions or widow's work as officers of the Yugoslav People's Army, who went with the Yugoslav People's Army to other republics and then participated in the aggression against Slovenia. Have you taken any positive, stimulating rural action in this area? You didn't. In addition, you come with the law now, when you load the investment in the countryside, which is likely to be realised by a farmer to the greatest extent possible, with 10 euros per square metre. Farmers, if they want to survive, if they want to make agricultural land concentrations, if they want to process at least what is of interest to them, they have to build agricultural buildings, not only within the area of the walls and in their gardens, even maybe some location along the way – and now they will pay 10 euros per square metre. Listen, these are measures that do not contribute to the revitalisation of the Slovenian countryside, but are measures that are, in fact, an accelerated force and move to urban centres. Typical measures. None of these measures are stimulating. We have a law to promote coherent regional development; all the key investments are taken by the largest cities in those so-called environments – the municipal community from that end. Measures for coherent regional development do not end where they should, but quite elsewhere. And there are problems, even in some other area. When colleague Weber spoke earlier about this area Škofljica; this area Škofljica has an ideal location, the only normal accommodation in the area where it is intended. It does go through agricultural land, but I doubt that Barian agricultural land is the best agricultural land. I seriously doubt it. But they're protected by some part of nature. But there was no problem when it was only a few meters away or ten meters away from the very best of Baryan lands that it built a Ljubljana ring or built a building with shopping malls. There's no problem. At a time when a peripheral environment needs a corridor, there are great restrictions and problems, but when the City Municipality of Ljubljana uses it, there is a solution, one or another, it is signed even back. Minister Židan, your colleague who is responsible for the environment, has signed an agreement on spatial acts to return. And the Municipality of Ljubljana adopted a different act than it was signed, even this. But nothing happens, not at formal or other levels. In short, it would be good if you identified the problems if you knew what the objectives of this legislation would be to achieve that legislation so that it would actually achieve those objectives. In order to preserve agricultural land, to achieve concentrations – that is to say, there will also be enough frequent bids for comassations that have not been and have been blocked – to stimulate production and to stimulate life at an age when they are no longer active or when their activity is limited. That's just the way it's supposed to be done. Now, from the case to the case coming to the National Assembly, something is taking place at the legislative level with each measure to the countryside. Additional taxes are imposed on those who live in the most difficult conditions, these are certainly farmers. Those who pay the most for pensions, such as small farmers, are minimised state pensions, and so on. In short, a whole bunch of measures that make it impossible for a rural perspective. The elimination of their political representatives in the National Assembly also falls under this category of restrictions on participation, rural participation at legislative level. In short, it is difficult to say that the measures are positive, that they will have the effects you anticipate. I'm just wondering how much of this law is going to heal next year. The best agricultural land is not only building up, it is mainly growing. Those who live in these local environments, in areas with limited factors, know that the best agricultural land is not built there, but is growing. And there are no mechanisms for that. And if there are no stimulating measures, it is also difficult to expect anyone to maintain or maintain something. That's impossible. You can expect this, I don't know what apartment settlement in Ljubljana, some measures to produce something there at some kindergarten. In rural areas, if there is serious economic production, measures for these programmes are not sufficient and are not good enough, obviously because the issue is unsuspecting, the rate of self-sustainment is falling, the rate of growth is rising, agricultural land is declining. This is said to be something to be done, rather than introducing additional restrictive criteria and taxes. Production must be stimulated, use must be stimulated, use not restriction and taxes. How, though, can a person survive if he has received a lot of land with a deal and has no place to put it; then he will pay a good tax because he has even decided to do something about it. It doesn't work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u83	The honourable Member is now leaving. [[...]] How Can I Answer? Good. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that personally I am always happy when Members take a lot of time to talk about agriculture, because it is a sign that you also understand what I believe you understand that food production in Slovenia is perhaps the most important activity. This has been increasingly observed in recent years, and it would be good to see this before food shortages occur, since it will be a little late to act. Of course, we often disagree. We have done a great deal for agriculture, and we are very, very careful in legislation that we protect the status of a farmer. Even if you look at the pension law – it is so written that it protects the interests of the farmer, including, say, some other laws are so written. But I'd like to tell you one case. Of course, a farmer needs money to survive, to develop and to move forward. This we have learned very quickly that the greatest danger to the existence of a Slovenian farmer is inequity, which is due to the unpredictability of farming over a very long period. And here we started this situation, I think very quickly to fix last year and I said this before the National Assembly several times before, we carried out quite a few intervention measures that brought new money into Slovenian agriculture. With other changes, we have protected this area from costs; only with the change in the size of the cadastral income did we reduce the loan, which is taxed, by 30 million, which means EUR 6 million for 20% of taxation, which is very much for a Slovenian farmer. What is particularly important – we are very careful that agricultural policy measures are implemented in a timely manner, so that only in the first two months of this year we transferred EUR 109 million to Slovenia through direct payments, the rest to the envelope, which is up to 144 million, we have already transferred in December of last year. What we may not be aware of – we are extremely successful at this time in the rural development programme. If we put the rural development programme on hectares, because all countries look at hectares, we find out what? We find that we are transferring some over €290 per hectare to Slovenian agriculture and food production, while on average the European Union is less than €90. I am telling you this in order to understand why negotiations are not easy for us who are the negotiating team for the period 2014-2020; often negotiations begin by giving us tables and it is clear from these tables that at this moment Slovenia is drawing the most funds immediately for Malta and I think that it is important and however we turn, the farmer will be able to survive if it is liquid and these are all measures that enable the Slovenian farmer to do so. The only thing to say is that we have limited the Slovenian farmer somewhere, but we have limited it and thus reduced its effectiveness: using plant protection products. We have reduced the efficiency of agriculture, including beekeeping, by the last bans we have carried out, and this is not, however, a proposal from the SDS by the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! Since it's May, the month of lunch, I have to say that we're having a pretty wide and medium lunch today, and I'm going to add a few lines to this line. One of the key issues that we heard a lot is the subject of healing. I must say that I am walking in Slovenia with my eyes open and that even in places where I have lived my whole life, I see that this trend has been halted. For many years, Slovenians and Slovenians have also invested subsidies for those lands covered by shrubs and forests and agricultural policy measures, whether not popular or effective, have caused us to cut and scrape a large part of these areas, especially forest edges. So it is in Gorenjska, even in White Krajina, where I drove last week, I must say that it is evident that it is working, mastering and farming, that some gardener is also being repaired and some other thing. However, I see a key problem with why it is less farming or less desirable and with the heart, especially in this income situation in agriculture. This is certainly not just a matter of the minister or a matter of his department or the government, but of our heads. If a new cell phone comes in, it needs to be replaced and bought immediately, no one worries if the monthly impulses on his phones cost him €5.10. Even when new offers of different triplets and packages come in, no one thinks. But that it had to be given for good and quality food EUR 5 or 10 more, which is outrageous, this is a scandal. In our heads we need to switch to what is essential to life – and food is – what is less important. See, maps of various theatres, film plays, shows and performances, not a problem, from 10 euros up. I will repeat that again – in Ljubljana it costs about as much beer in a good restaurant as in Tržič 10 eggs, kilograms of potatoes and a litre of milk together. There's something wrong with this story. People will eat, they will grow, if what they produce is worth something. A kilo of sheep, lamb meat — several years in 5 euros. €5 – two ice creams. But you either eat a pound of meat or you survive. And that's our problem. Also our attitude towards agriculture; I must say that as the mayor I am interested in monitoring some events that are taking place in some more urban Slovenian municipalities to haunt the gardeners. It is beneficial to persecute them if you give them a new space or do something there that will bring more added value. This is how we chase gardeners on one side, but we don't chase picnics or weekenders. And we lose people's self-sustainment with food and vegetable production, fruit, if possible, if that's why the conditions are that it's a value. What else has to be done? In Slovenia, huge numbers, thousands and thousands of hectares, process agrarian communities. When I asked the previous minister if the agrarian community law would change because it was blocked by hereditary proceedings in court, he replied to me: "Listen, young Member, if people have waited 50 years for the correction of the injustices, they will have 50 years to complete the succession proceedings in court." And it came from the mouth of those who today send us minds and read the Levites. This government, I think, will come to Parliament by summer with a relatively simple solution that will allow agrarian communities to manage their assets, to obtain building permits for broken herds, for broken barns, with the three-quarters consent of owners, despite the fact that all hereditary procedures cannot be completed, because some landowners are already dead, or are in America, Argentina, New Zealand and elsewhere. Today, a lot of bile has also resulted in the worst impact on agriculture and rural areas. He was gone, and there will be no law prohibiting farming that would prevent anyone who is a citizen from helping a neighbor who is rural from farming. There was no such marriage, and there was no such marriage. He only lives in some political heads. Of course, such a law prevents, of course, from growing weekends in the countryside under the guise of shepherding conditions, beekeepers, oats, and I do not know what kind of oats. That's a good thing. The agricultural land cannot be misused and many things built on it that do not belong there. One of the key issues here is the status of the farmer. It is not true what one of the colleagues said, but it is not the mayor that lobbyists and merchants who demand a change of destination go to the municipalities. Changes in destination mainly invest and are qualified initiatives from owners. We are already here about the question of where to share farms, for brothers and sisters have, say, many times to the same home farm a different relationship. One would grow, the other would build. There are still important tasks to be done here to protect these matters. It seems to me that these are the key issues and the key challenges that must be addressed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I must say that if this trend goes forward, then in the year until the end of the mandate in this area it will certainly be much better, not surprisingly, but much more healthy thinking, especially those healthy farmers of the mind that we like to swear to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! If the month of May is for my colleague Saiovic, the month of lunch – the month of May is actually the most beautiful month of the year, at least for me, because it is the most pulsating, because then nature is the most beautiful, the greenest. Unfortunately, that nature can't speak. Nature can't say, and this nature can't possibly tell what it is that it would want. But today we have had the opportunity to hear very many ideas and many scepticisms and doubts about what needs to be done in these agricultural lands, how, how and whether the measures so far and all the legal grounds are right or wrong and where we have made a mistake. The fact is that Slovenia is a forest-growing country, that we are somewhere else, a third country after forest wealth, that we have 63% of that about 93 000 hectares of naturally growing first-class agricultural land. The fact is that, say, in the forest and wood industry once, twenty-five years ago, we had 36, 37 thousand employees, that today we have just under 12 thousand, and that we also have some strategies that we are trying to implement over time and slowly. Of course, some of the trends that were set up decades ago, 20 years ago, ten years ago, cannot just change with a magic wand. Quality is needed, a long-term policy is needed, which is implemented annually consistently with consistent quality and with consistent supervision. If we have taken measures to prevent growth, if we have the stimulation of the basket and if we have any other stimulated measures, it is necessary to monitor them and not only go into projects from year to year, but projects must be long-term. Projects need to be permanent, because – if they say so at home – this must be the line in the budget – of course they are a constant. And there are things in agriculture that have been renewed for 2,000 years and are urgent, and you know exactly what it is that makes things right and what it doesn't. Food is needed, and we all live on it; it is better, we will be healthier, more propulsive, and we will actually be able to regulate things in a very, even scientific and developmental way. Slovenia has capacity, has capacity also in the research team, some things have been quite well set up and I think that in this year of forests we will show that we know in one way and prove that we are a country – most people have some farming roots, although some are ashamed of it, but it is only something good and not bad. The whole principle is the most important. The whole principle means that things are being monitored, one way or another, from the beginning to the end, and that control, including measures, is being accompanied in one way or another, not only by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but also by other eyes, and that tax policy in this way is also so much more attentive to some of the deviations that have been mentioned today. Since I am an MP elected to the Ljubljana Municipality, and some MEPs here have been saying that Ljubljana has changed so many and so many thousands of hectares overnight, I really have to oppose it and protest it because it's not true. Of course, some long-term plans, which are promising, one would say, planned things 20, 30, even 100 years, are just plotted. How the destinations of agricultural land will change in what way, and we will see, because in Ljubljana this legislation is strictly taken into account in one way. And like I said, nature can't speak, but that's why we're here – and nature doesn't have its ombudsman – to say how and how we have to handle things. However, things must be regulated in the long term, with long-term measures, and not least, I think not year-to-year partial, but with measures that are sustainable and sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We are still discussing Article 4. Anyone else want a word? I see there are more people who want to discuss it, please sign up. Mr. Andrej Vizjak has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Since my colleague Borut Saiovic had lunch all the time, I'll keep my mouth shut. In fact, he said a lot about healing; I would invite Mr Saiovic to my vineyard there on Plešivec or Rucman summit near Sromlja, where I would see a diametrically different picture as he describes it. In fact, there was an eminent vineyard position; alone, which I process about a thousand 200 vines, I remained virtually alone on that shore. Left, right, higher, lower farmers have practically abandoned vineyards and the landscape is growing. And these were the first-class vine bearings. It's not just there, it's similar in Srómlja, Pisec, Bizeljska, and that's why I'd invite him. However, I know that the Minister is probably also aware of these problems, and I hope that at least, and of course, such growth cannot be addressed through bureaucratic administrative measures. I think that such cultivation should be addressed primarily by encouraging the farmer to cultivate this land in the income field. If he doesn't see it himself, we call the boss, he won't deal with it either, the earth will grow and we won't benefit from some protection of the agricultural land if it's in the desert. And that is why it also pains me to take this bureaucratic approach to change of destination, because I personally strongly oppose the changes in the destination of the agricultural land, of any category, to a wally land if, in fact, this agricultural land is in use, if it is used and given to agriculture, food or so-called self-sustainment. We have a lot of examples that there's a first-class land in the desert, and it's not in the desert for a year, two, 10, 20 years, and it's still the first category and it protects itself like I don't know what, even though someone can come up with an idea for, say, building up or some economic use. I would like to stress that there is a great difference between some formal disaster and what is happening in nature. And that is the problem, it is the problem that, unfortunately, Slovenian agriculture does not have these encouraging policies, so that farmers can feel that they can actually live from this land, on the one hand, and on the other hand the status of this land is defended indefinitely. I'm in favour of defending myself, but I'm in favour of defending myself in parallel with doing something about this land ever being processed. I would be happy if the Minister of Agriculture would ever come to Brežice and take a look at the road of freedom to the right or the western part, where only the first-class agricultural land, the first category, has not been processed for many years. I think that's a problem. And then there's interest in building up and protecting himself because of his status, not because he gives what he gives to agriculture, to agriculture, or to anyone associated with agriculture. This, of course, seems important to me when we additionally tax these changes of destination. I wouldn't leave it, I would never let it build agricultural land unless I really didn't know what state development infrastructure you couldn't put elsewhere, if this land was also feeding people, or whatever. Of course, I would have a much less shaky hand if it were equal to the status of the earth and that this land had not been processed for years. And, as for the growth and also these changes of destination, I also note with regret that I am living in a more peripheral part of Slovenia, that fewer people in the part that was traditionally agricultural – by the way, you probably know Arn's village, where fruiting, apple production is very developed – that fewer and fewer young people continue their careers as a farmer or in this agricultural sector. The sons of farmers who are my age are going to go to college, they're going to deal with Godsigaves with something, and the big question is, because boys already know how to count whether they're going to do it or what's going to happen. So we also cut this young branch that can guarantee what we all want. I therefore believe that there is only one key to the solution here – this is that different measures on farms will be able to live well, with hard work. If you fail to do so, not just you, because this is a task for your ten predecessors and another successor, then God help us, and these bureaucratic measures will not fail.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u91	Your Honor, I can only confirm your words. Firstly, in Slovenia we have been able to establish a state in the last 20 years that, if we look at the proportion of the young population by definition of up to 35 years – just 4% – the average of the European Union is 7%. We've been able to do this in the last 20 years, and I can't change this in a year as a minister, which we both know, right? The fact is also that the situation concerning the exploitation of agricultural land within Slovenia is extremely different. However we are as a land of lust, we are also small, and the situation is tremendously different. According to my experience, if anything, I travel a lot in the field, but this does not depend only on the possibilities that space offers, but also on the development of the cooperative system. But what's interesting, and this is actually my experience, because I didn't expect it, depends very much on the understanding and understanding of agriculture by local mayors. Where the mayors understand and support agriculture, agriculture and production as a sector are rapidly expanding and perhaps not the most ideal conditions for agriculture. On the other hand, we also have areas where ideal conditions are, say, through the glasses of resources, and agriculture is not expanding. What I want to say is that the country of course cannot regulate business relations. I think we both know that, don't we, Mr Member, the country can take care of the framework. The fact is that the administrative framework in agriculture is the most complex in the European Union and we have managed to entangle it even more in Slovenia. And now we're breaking it up. Secondly, what the state can take care of is to enable a system of direct payments to such an extent and to such an extent or even better than usual for the European Union. And here we were successful. If you look at the measures, such direct payments that we actually finance per hectare with us, as well as payments that are particularly important in Slovenia, where we often help, this is an incentive to grow where farming is more difficult. In Slovenia we only have 47% of agricultural areas where processing is harder. Moreover, if we observe agricultural areas, we have 52% of the mountainous areas. And in order to keep farming there, we are currently financed with almost €80 million per year. So I think – and I conclude with this – that we are all aware together that the farm will survive as well as young people will have only if we have profitable agriculture at farm level. It bothers me very much, for example, if farmers are made to profit. Personally, I wish all farmers had profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you. I would like to define myself even to the views expressed by the SDS Group, in order to introduce a compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, the exhaustion of rural areas. That's not true. The fact is that the biggest interest in building is in the major cities, and these have the greatest interest in expanding and people are actually investing in real estate in these environments. And the change of destination, which will be paid right around the major cities, can, of course, also be devoted to agricultural regulation of agricultural areas, which are usually available right in the countryside. So it's the principle of channelling resources from urban centres to rural areas, not vice versa. In addition, the question was raised as to whether an analysis of the previous compensation for the use of buildings had been made. For the sake of clarification alone, the local community also received these funds and, of course, received them in the integrated budget and then allocated them from this budget for investments. And of course, the impact of these funds was neither, nor was it, in fact, conducive to the loss of agricultural areas, because they wanted to invest and invest in this money. This law, of course, reverses that logic. This is a deliberate use of funds, as it has been presented to be collected in a special account. The local communities, for example, already have to pay professional fees for their spatial acts, where they record agricultural areas. This law imposes and allows municipalities to be paid for the production of agricultural expertise. It is a matter of assessment – between €35 and €45 000 is the production of one such professional basis in a specific municipality for agriculture, and this is a concrete measure with which, of course, municipalities at the outskirts will also benefit from this change of destination in the countryside. A total of around EUR 20 million is to be collected and around EUR 7 to 9.5 million is to be used for these agricultural expertises to be received by the municipalities. So there's no way that it's a matter of exhaustion of the countryside, on the contrary. It is about maintaining rural settlement, it is about preserving agricultural areas and, of course, it is that measure that really needs to be supported in this law, so I do not think that this amendment is good to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u95	I'll do it because I don't want to stay unspoken or not clear enough. Article 71 of the Constitution states: "The law lays down specific conditions for the use of land for the purpose of prudent use. The law provides for special protection of agricultural land."and from this follows also, of course, that 'the State is concerned about the economic, cultural and social progress of the population in mountain and hill areas."which means that, in fact, after nine years, this law practically resumes what the Constitution imposes on us all together. And for this reason, it seems to me that it is an unsavoury constant repetition of how such a way of protecting agricultural land from change of destination is harmful to farmers, that it harms farmers to harm rural areas, but in fact it is a matter of preventing, if not, at least such abuses as have already occurred last year, when a municipality in Dolenjska passed the negative opinion of the agricultural ministry about 20 hectares of agricultural land to build a commercial industrial zone, and I hope that then the investor who will become this land will be abused because he will use it to build it instead of a farmer. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 4? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 6 and the three amendments or the four amendments to this Article. One was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and three by the Social Democrats' Group, Res, Desus and LDS. Anyone want a word on Article 6 and the amendments? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to Article 24 and the amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, Reals, DeSUS and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss Article 24? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 24 and thus the debate on amendments to this law. The amendments and the law will be decided in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a decision on the problem did not pay off the subcontractors in the construction of individual sections of the motorway in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. To Andre Visiak for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the Commission addressed the issue of non-payments by subcontractors in the construction of sections of the port highway at an extraordinary meeting or at an emergency meeting on 1 February this year. At that time, she adopted a decision proposing to the Government, the Ministry of Transport, Darsa administration and the Darsa Supervisory Board to immediately address the issue of unpaid subcontractors in the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and to offer concrete solutions within 15 days for the payment of subcontractors and to inform the Commission. Unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues, no progress has been made in this area until today, 18 May. The pay-as-you-go non-discipline, which we have discussed a lot in this House – the government is supposed to take on this subject, as well as the parliament, a series of measures to curb this early economy cancer – is, of course, particularly painful for small entrepreneurs, for those who are also dependent on big business, for large businesses, and who cannot bear many insolences by the contracting authorities. Such an eloquent example of payment non-discipline or breach of certain contractual arrangements is also experienced by subcontractors on motorways, and not only by subcontractors on the foot of the highway, but also by other motorways faced similar problems. And not just there, for example, the building next door, the opera building is a similar case. And they find themselves again and again in these problems when we talk about state money, they find state-owned companies, ministries, and as a result, SCT or Vegrad or such companies. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have anything to say on behalf of the motioner, please come up here. Although you are not a member of the committee, we would be happy to listen to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u98	Mr. Vizjak, continue with your presentation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u99	Dear Vice President, the ladies have been embezzling me here, disturbing me. You're not, because you're their client partner, you're interfering. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u100	No, because I didn't hear them. Speak, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u101	Of course you didn't hear, then you'll have to do something with your ears! [[...]] This reaction by the Social Democrats is also typical. They defend their camps, defend their companies, and, of course, here's where the problem is. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u102	I have to warn you, don't let Mr. Vissian get in the way, because he can't talk if you're talking. He's too sensitive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not too sensitive, but, of course, if someone's talking to you here, it's a speech impediment. And, of course, it is painful, painful for you on my left, when they hear and see that many subcontractors across Slovenia feel the effects of some clientism on their shoulders, the clientism shown in the connection between Darsa, among the SCT, probably also among the Capital Investment Management Agency, and who is bubbling up on the recommendations of the Government, on Parliament's recommendations, and the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, there is no other way to deal with this subject in plenary session, so that we can bind both the Government and the relevant other institutions, especially the Capital Investment Management Agency, to do everything immediately to pay these subcontractors. Let me remind you that Parliament has adopted a law with which we wanted to solve this problem; for we have adopted a law that if the main contractor does not pay the work done to the subcontractor, the contracting authority or the investor can do so. The country is turning around €10 billion every year, it is a cost-effective part of the budget, and it is an important creator and an important employer in this country, and it is also an important creator of financial non-discipline, so I think that we can also from this city, in fact, from the city of the highest legislative body, call on those responsible to start implementing the rules we have adopted here and these measures to tackle the problem in this country. We therefore propose similar conclusions as we have already proposed, and I see that the government has also adopted them and the ministry. Thus, everyone has adopted conclusions calling on the agency and Dars to do and resolve the issue of unpaid subcontractors without delay, but nothing happens. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today's debate will at least contribute partially to solving this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Now I could have a word with the government representative, Minister of Transport, Dr. Vlačič. Since he is absent, he will be able to get a word after presenting the views of the groups. We are therefore going to present the views of the groups of Members and the first one has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The national assembly has not paid its subcontractors a number of times. Today, we have already discussed public procurement or protection in procurement procedures. In the Slovenian People's Party, we stressed that public procurement legislation must be transparent and effective and fair to all parties in proceedings. The Public Procurement Law has long contained provisions on the duty of the main contracting authority to pay all subcontractors before they can be selected in the new tender. However, until recently, this provision was written so that the main operators could play it out easily. By exploiting their power and position on the market. Sub-contractors are under threat that the main contractor will no longer cooperate with them and are willing to wait longer to pay their claims than anticipated and agreed upon. Even less so, they hoped to use any legal remedy against the main contractor, as they would be immediately subject to sanctions and be excluded from cooperation with them. Today, it has been shown that in the vast majority of cases this would have been better, as the above-mentioned tolerance of subcontractors has also contributed to the unbearable situation. But it can be a general after the battle, so let's leave this part aside. As long as the new work, new projects and calls were sufficient for the main operators, account withdrawals were not major problems. But when the source of the fresh cash flow dried up, the issue of non-payments to subcontractors exploded like a bomb. For this reason, in the National Assembly, a good year ago, we had already amended public procurement legislation. For it is unacceptable for a country to tolerate this problem with its transgressions and to close its eyes before it. The State must protect the interests of all, in particular fair and well-intentioned entities and citizens by all its actions. Thus, we have amended public procurement legislation in the sense that the State may pay directly to subcontractors if the main contractor avoids paying the works awarded on a public invitation to tender. However, as is evident in this case, which we now have before us, this is not enough to solve the problems properly. Is this about Darsa's intentional move, which did not take into account the legal calls made by subcontractors in time and, nevertheless, the total amount paid to the main contractor, I will not speculate at this time. In this regard, everyone has probably created his own imagination and conclusion. The key question at this point is whether there are legal possibilities for unpaid subcontractors, despite the fact that Dars has already paid the main contractor, to pay. In the Slovenian People's Party, we firmly believe that such options exist, must be found and used. In any case, it is one of the legitimate and legal possibilities of paying subcontractors under the terms of bank guarantees. If these bank guarantees have already been essentially intended as an opportunity to pay subcontractors, then this option should be used. It is only good will and good will that must be gathered together. In view of the fact that the State and the Government have directly in the hands of the scissors and the canvas solution to this problem, given the function that the State must perform, the Slovenian People's Party would expect a simple, clear and quick decision. That way the wolf will be fed and the goat will be whole. The State or Dars will not pay a share twice, and subcontractors will receive a well-deserved payment for their services. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendment and the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by Mr Anton Urh, who is not present. Therefore, the position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! When the recession also affected the real sector, the country responded well and focused on construction, which was intended to give work and profits through larger construction companies, to smaller ones who were subcontractors, especially in the SCT, Vegrad and other Slovenian companies. It is logical that small businesses are largely dependent on large companies that receive large jobs at competitions and whose owners and managers have thus liked to stand in front of cameras with political February when a project is completed. However, as we have seen in the media, at least a larger project has destroyed quite a few small businesses and has put hundreds of jobs on the road, destroyed dozens of families who have expected to receive a decent wage. Despite the well-written legislation, we are constantly being accompanied by violations of legislation, especially large companies, which are also state-owned, so that wages and contributions are not paid, which has only increased the social crisis. Infringements also occur in cases where the investor is a company which is wholly owned by the State and which knowingly fails to comply with the legal provisions relating to the payment of subcontractors. In particular, Dars comes out here, which, despite repeated warnings from the Court of Auditors, does not respond as required by legislation. The representative of Darsa explains that she understands the difficult situation of subcontractors, which was created mainly by financial non-discipline in our country. And who's saying that? If this were a small entrepreneur, I would still understand, but I cannot understand that a representative of a state-owned company is acting so irresponsiblely. The concern that the company is in charge of three billion euros does not mean that the fraud of subcontractors who are waiting for the money they have earned can be attributed to them and their workers. Otherwise, they cannot boast that they are a good master. For otherwise, the Court of Auditors would not have warned them of recklessness in business and a serious breach of the obligation to do good and would have issued an invitation to start proceedings for the discharge of two persons responsible for Darsa. While the Supervisory Board is considering the matter, it does not decide on the Court of Auditors' expectations, as the matter must also be examined by the Supervisory Agency and then only goes to the Government. As we can see, the procedure has been studied in such a way that the mandate has expired before the discharge. Although Minister Vlačič stood on the side of the righteous one, he admitted that the subcontractors had also warned Dars in time that there had been a failure to pay the subcontractors by the main contractor. So it's now Darsa's duty to settle the payoff. Sub-contractors point out the outstanding 8 million debt that Dars could pay from the bank guarantees, which represent the ten percent value of the project and which amounts to around €80 million, which should not be a problem to pay in all logic, as this goes to the SCT and not Darsa account. Apparently, it's another scenario here, and Dars isn't gonna pay for it at all. The deadlines are being extended, and it is hoped that the matter will go into obsolescence and oblivion. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a very important member of the economy, as they employ most of the workers who pay taxes and contributions to the state. Therefore, the State should treat them with greater respect and respect, especially when it comes to respect for the law, and should not allow the will of state officials who do not deviate from the principles of non-compliance with the laws, but are subject to an argument of power that benefits only them, but is detrimental to others. The representative of Darsa boasted that in 2008 and 2009 they were very concerned about the interests of subcontractors and that they paid for certain works of STC too early. Just so they could pay off the subcontractors. But how much was paid, we couldn't find out because it was a business secret. There's got to be something clear. Debt to subcontractors exists. The matter will have to be resolved because business secrets do not solve problems, but the authorities of detection and persecution. And there's something else I'd like to say. I got exactly two minutes, three minutes before I went up here, one document. This document says that Dars doesn't have any banking agencies anymore, so we'll pay the subcontractors to the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the National Assembly! The problem of unpaid subcontractors, this time in the construction of sections of the motorway, is only a reflection of the recent dominant business ethics in the economy, especially in the construction sector. A reflection of disrespect and a conscious violation of legal standards, as well as poor and overly complicated legal arrangements and more. Probably the bad part of the subscribers, too. There are certainly more factors. In a specific case, unfortunately, damaged subcontractors are involved in the construction of motorways whose difficult situation in LDS we understand, of course. On the other hand, we point out that the problem must not nevertheless be solved outside the legal framework in force, while we regret that this is being abused — affected by subcontractors with the whole issue — for political purposes. In LDS, we are close to a solution recently directed by the Minister of Transport. Each individual sub-contractor’s request must be considered separately and decided separately. The fact is that all claims made by subcontractors from a legal point of view are not equivalent and are such that they can be paid by the possible redemption of guarantees. The contracts of unpaid subcontractors of the SCT in the construction of the Pomurska and Pirina motorways are too different to be treated in a uniform manner. Differences are also different; there are cases where the subcontractor has warned Dars that the main contractor does not pay situations or invoices issued in accordance with the contract and Dars has paid the main contractor in full despite this warning. There are a number of cases where the subcontractor, when performing on a public invitation to tender, gave the main contractor a certificate that by a certain date all mutual obligations have been settled, further, compensations have been made between subcontractors and main operators and so on. Therefore, it is important that Dars prepare approximate application typologies and then legal experts for each group assess what an individual case means and offer possible legal solutions for it. That this is the only right way to solve the problem is to understand from the point of view of Dr. Miha Juhart, who is preparing one of the legal opinions on this issue. The government is looking for a solution to this problem and the opposition's apparent inaction is therefore unjustified. On 21 April 2011, she called on the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia to request, in the role of the Dars Assembly through its Supervisory Board, the Dars administration to immediately begin to deal with each sub-contractor's request separately and to identify it individually. The Government has set a 60-day deadline for the discharge of subcontractors' claims. It is important to realize that the Government does not have direct legal levers, so that Darsu can impose a constructive approach to solving the problem, and even less that it should unselectively pay off all affected subcontractors. The last request would also be illegal. The Ministry of Transport has repeatedly called on Dars to deal with subcontractors’ claims in accordance with the legislation in force before that decision, in particular taking into account the bank guarantees issued for the payment of subcontractors. On 9 March 2011, the Ministry of Finance sent the Agency an appropriate position on the payment of subcontractors by cashing out bank guarantees. This behaviour of the LDS Government is considered to be legally correct, perhaps only a little late. It is imperative to respect the corporate governance hierarchy, since Dars is a shareholder, an economic company, and the provisions of the Company Act apply to its legal relationship and business. In addition, the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for the independent, independent and professional management of the country's capital investments, must not be bypassed. According to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the time dimension of solving this problem is particularly problematic, which is particularly important for affected subcontractors. It's been lost for a while. We believe that now, according to the clear direction of the Government, all competent authorities must do what is necessary to solve the problem within a reasonable time. Probably all subcontractors won't be happy about it. The market economy is characterised by the fact that each individual economic operator also carries a part of the risk and, above all, by the responsibility for its business practices. It is crucial for the LDS that the solutions be implemented as soon as possible and within the legal framework in force and that the operators be paid as quickly and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our position will be relatively brief. Let me begin by saying that it is in support of the proposal for a decision drawn up by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which is actually addressed to Dars or to his leadership, which we believe will either not read at all or put in the drawer quickly, this is now a matter of expectations. Almost certainly they will not react to it, as is expected if we can conclude on their reactions after how they worked so far. This proposal for a decision is, in fact, an emergency call when many attempts were made, when many debates were made, when it proved to be, both on the Commission and elsewhere, some ignorance about the authorities that can and must think about such problems, and if we generalise it, it is not really just about Dars anymore, it is a general problem that we somehow cannot solve in Slovenia. But since it is a problem mainly of subcontractors and not of payment, let me remind you that this Parliament, at the beginning of this mandate, addressed the document and supported it with great enthusiasm, which was called Small Business Act, and whose essence is in particular in realizing the importance of small businesses, their employees, medium-sized enterprises and their employees, to be aware that they can be the source of progress, the source of economic and other development, but also to be aware that they are the most vulnerable companies, the most vulnerable economic operators. After the formal salary, after the adoption of the regulation, it later happened to us as if we really knew it. All possible laws have already been adopted to eliminate these weaknesses, and weaknesses continue to persist and persist because those who are not small, who are large, in fact, look away from this and the typical example is Dars or his leadership, which has been presented by his actions in such a way as to have a feudal rule in their field. And as long as they have such a feudal attitude toward everyone else, as long as they increase ignorance towards arrogance, to ridicule, it is not possible to expect such problems to be resolved. Dars didn't pay attention, no, he was deaf to what the Ministry of Finance said. He was deaf to what the Department of Transport said. He was deaf to the Court of Auditors, he was deaf to several calls from the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. The question now arises whether the AUKN, representing the owner, will become deaf and whether Dars will be deaf for what the owner will conclude today in the National Assembly. While the owner is aware that, at the moment, he cannot decide and intervene in such a way as to be either the supervisory board or the administration, but can step up this pressure, it can affect the start of a change in business culture, it can affect the ability to hear what Dars and similar companies are running. That what is happening now must not be tolerated. I'm sure no one would doubt that. Not only because of the very harmful work involved in our economy, in particular the small economy, but also because of the coordinated behaviour of those who should monitor each other. This has proved to be because of Darsa’s lack of response, and this has proved to be because, in fact, more than not, it supports the work that most of the official institutions reject in our country. And it is up to us today to try this, to call this a political pressure to ensure that the way Dars management behaves will change, and that perhaps even those subcontractors who have not yet been.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič will set up the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats Group is aware of the situation faced by subcontractors in construction and welcomes all solutions to the problem of failure to pay subcontractors in general and to address the problems of payment non-discipline. Of course, it is necessary to ask why subcontractors are in such a position, who is responsible for bad contracts or poor insurance payments, who has not fulfilled all expectations, or whether promises have been made without checking all the facts that affect the fulfilment of contractual commitments. This is so much more topical now that many construction companies are failing, and the entire construction sector is in a kind of recession when there is no new investment to pay off old liabilities and there is a build-up of unsold apartments and business premises. It is true, however, that this should not be the case in the field of road construction and public procurement, where services are generally paid and there is no stock of completed road sections, bridges, theatres, schools, gyms and other facilities financed from public funds – but this is another story. Therefore, for the non-payment of subcontractors, there is full responsibility for those who have been hired, and these are large companies that generally receive tenders. The decline in construction investments, which began during the crisis, was expected. The problem is that the highway construction programme ended just before the recession started and the alternative programme for railway infrastructure was not ready. That is why public investment was less than it could have been in 2009. As a result, the further decline in investments in 2010 made the construction situation more difficult and the recession in this area even worse. That is, unfortunately, the situation today. Construction and real estate operations, which took place between 2006 and 2008, were above-average growth rates and, on the other hand, over-average indebtedness. Therefore, the decline in construction activity in 2009 and 2010 is highest between economic activities. If construction in the previous mandate, including through the policy of the previous government, overheated the economy, it is now an activity that inhibits economic growth, as construction is linked to an extremely large number of other activities, which are linked in one way or another, and therefore reduce the growth of the economy. In fact, the wrong policy of the former government, the government of Janez Janša, in the case of SCT, Vegrad, and other major builders, has led to the situation we are talking about now, which is the issue of the failure of subcontractors, where the main contractors are part of a large construction company. With regard to the resolution of subcontractors' defaults, a broader view should be taken. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that the Government has already prepared solutions with amendments to public procurement legislation, where the definition of subcontractor in public procurement is amended so that actual subcontractors and not subsidiaries of contractors who are many times defaults on money for payment of services can be paid on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. On the basis of the recent amendments to the Public Procurement Act, we have also effectively prevented Zidar and his like owners and managers of construction companies from continuing to work through their circuit companies for jobs paid from public finances. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that Dars must verify the eligibility of payment of subcontractors. In doing so, it should be noted that Dars has received around 25,000 requests to be carefully reviewed to be eligible for payment in the event that the main contractor has not paid the subcontractors in accordance with legal standards. Of course, it must be borne in mind that a double payment cannot be made because it is illegal and harmful, including for public finances. The non-payment of SCT for other objects simply cannot be hung only by one road section. Of course, it also raises the question of where the subcontractors have been until now, when they exert tremendous pressure both on Dars and on the country, to pay them the claims made before 2006, when they were being built, or before that time. Why didn't they sue the contractor and get their money from the one they had a contract with? It would probably be much easier to solve problems today and be much smaller, but there is probably some reason. We are aware of the problem that most of the work at the dusk was done in 2007 and in the first half of 2009, so it should be mentioned that the contract with the main contractor and subcontractor at the time of the Janša government was signed by Rajko Siroč, who led the company at the time. The Treaty is weak and does not fully protect the interests of contracting entities and subcontractors, despite the instructions of the Ministry of Finance, which was made in 2000 and is binding on the conclusion of contracts for the implementation of works and financing. We will not support this decision in the Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that the Government has already joined the solution by adopting a decision on 21 April 2010 and calling on the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve this problem in the role of the Assembly of Dars through its Supervisory Council, and as far as we know, the problem is being resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u115	Your Honor! We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party for problems to be resolved, not to be solved. And get rid of them quickly, and get rid of them justly. The Public Finance Supervisory Commission called on Dars, the Dars authorities, to approach this issue on 1 February this year, a few months ago. We have adopted conclusions on the Commission and the Government has responded to these conclusions, and government decisions are also going in the direction of the Commission's attachment so that individual cases of unpaid payments can be verified and the problem resolved. To this day, there is no case to know that any subcontractor would be paid. Well, I'm pretty sure he's not willing to solve this problem. Indeed, the subcontractors at the meetings of the Commission have demonstrated that they can be paid for the purpose of cashing out guarantees for the good performance of works and for the payment of subcontractors held by Dars and issued by the main contractor, namely SCT. We also made sure on the committee that Dars paid off relatively uneconomically everything, virtually everything, already to the main contractor. And that the main contractor didn't pay back the subcontractors. And if we're talking only about the foot of the highway, we can figure out that it was worth about 800 million euros. That 10%, as far as bank guarantees are concerned, is 80 million euros. And that the open claims of subcontractors are only EUR 8 million. Thus, this is 1% of the total value of the foot of the highway and 10% of the guarantees that Dars has or is supposed to have. Today, we have heard from a member group that it has information that these guarantees are no longer available. It's a matter of concern. According to contracts and documents, Dars could cash in bank guarantees and could pay off subcontractors. On purpose, I emphasize the word "may". If I wanted to listen to the Commission's calls, to the Minister's calls, both for finance and for transport, to the calls of the Government, and, of course, to solve this problem. However, Dars did not follow these calls and did not use this word "may", but he said, "they can't force me to pay for it", and ordered some legal opinions – of course he paid them well for the benefit of all users or for the detriment of all users of the motorway – and of course he proves that he doesn't have to pay, but he could pay. So, all of us, with respect, all the formal institutions that I have listed – the Commission, the Government, the ministries – we are trying to make this happen. But there's no payment. Who rules this country? What informal clienteleistic connections rule that this does not happen? Who protects Mrs. Priest? Who protects Mr. Bear? I can't imagine that, with this unanimous campaign to solve this problem for a few months, there can't be a solution even for a millimeter. This isn't a coincidence, Your Honor. I'm sure they're protecting each other here, who's interested in this money that's going to pay off the hard work to subcontractors, landing somewhere else. Mr Zidar, who is in an unenviable position, both in terms of health and health of his businesses, got everything paid, cut off this empire, so that the sale of shares, for example, the asphalt base in Montenegro at the time of the forced settlement, and no one happens in this country. And here we hear from the sending groups how they have done all things, how everything is being saved. Get rid of nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not believe that this is an effective approach and a satisfactory approach to solving this problem. That is why problems escalate in this country. And until we resolve this, until the formal institutions, which we are also responsible, rule and rule these countries, will obviously rule us with a clienteleistic link, such as that of Darsa, SCT and any other type of ruling.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Trofenik, who is not. This concludes with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. In the context of this debate, the applicant, Mr Vizjak, and the representative of the Government shall have the opportunity to speak at any time. Anyone would like a word on the proposal for conclusions and amendments to this proposal tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members? Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u117	I hope the ruling people will not remain silent about this. Nice, I'm glad to see your first hand. In February, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission responded to the problem raised by subcontractors at the foot of the highway. In fact, we later found that the problem is not only the foot of the highway, that the problem is also the other highway sections and legs in this country, and that the problem is not only the highway cross, but also the other investments of which the country is an investor. The case, as I said, is also Opera Ljubljana, and there are others I would like to find. All of this is that it is a state as an investor, whether directly or indirectly, i.e. that it is tax money. And it is also common that, despite the adoption of legislation by which we Members of the National Assembly practically unanimously wanted to solve and help subcontractors when these are not paid by the main contractor, that is, despite this adoption of legislation and despite the State investor, the problem is not solved. On the contrary, the problem was not resolved despite discovery and calls. Because I can't imagine otherwise that from 1 February to this day, a few months after that, there still hasn't been a single case solved. And it is clear from the statements made by Darss that he does not want to solve this problem either. In the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which has done the most and carried out this work in Parliament, the majority of the opposition has the opposition. As there is often a political prestige to the ignorance of the opposition or the opposition majority, I hope that the plenary session or plenary decision on similar decisions, as the Commission has already adopted, will produce some result. So that together we will find Members and Members that despite the warning that this issue has been detected, and despite the warning in Parliament, we do not approach resolution, and now we have the last chance, the last call at this level to approach resolution. I understand that everyone's formally being framed by this. Formally, the minister says, "this is what the agency does, so we set up an agency because it deals with capital investment management." And Dars is one of the key capital investments of the country. The government felt called and adopted conclusions and, like the Commission, urged Dars to begin solving the problem without delay. The subcontractors were adopted by the President of the Government, together with the Minister of Transport, about two months ago, and promised them that this would be resolved within two months. Nothing. Your Honor, I'm sorry, nothing happened at this time. Last Thursday, which is a bad week from today, I sat together in the studio of Television Slovenia with the president of the administration of Dars and the President of the Supervisory Board of Dars. There was also a representative of subcontractors on the foothills of the motorway or subcontractors at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and it was more than obvious from that confrontation that no progress had been made and no case had been resolved. So, I would like to point out that so far, all of us who have called on the board of directors have been unsuccessful and ineffective. Therefore, at this last session, when we were again addressing this issue and were surprised and sad that no progress had been made, the Commission called on the Capital Investment Management Agency to resolve Darsa's supervisory board. Clearly, Darsa's supervisory board is not doing its job. This is not just one isolated case in connection with Darsa's problems; the problem was even more interesting in terms of ignoring the Court's audit report and calling for a resolution by the Court of Auditors. So it's not just politics, it's not just "liquid and unfortunate subcontractors" that found something wrong with Dars, and the Court of Auditors finds it. Nothing happened. Respected how to interpret this phenomenon differently than that of all those who are formally acting and wishing to do something in this country, we are not effective, and that from Mrs Duhovnikov – at least from her performances and her non-participations, even at the session of the Commission, I am not talking about Mr Bear, whom we have invited on the Commission, even though we have not seen him four times – as if one of these people is extremely ignorant, a mockery of formal powers in this country. Will these gentlemen and ladies laugh even when the third branch of power says something? Probably not then, because there's gonna be some police with handcuffs, but the problem is, I don't know about this epilogue in 10 years or never. That's the problem. And that we are so obviously in the executive branch of power, if we sincerely want to do this, as in the legislative branch, if, of course, we truly want to do so, we are extremely ineffective. And let's think about it a little bit. Obviously, it is not only a problem to imagine the Court of Auditors – I, by the way, asked the President of the Court of Auditors how he views his position and his integrity in such a situation, when everything he does is ignored. And today it would be good, respected Social Democrats, for you to support this decision as well. I had previously seen from the performance of the leader of the parliamentary group that you would not, because you think we have done enough or that the government has done enough. The government would have done a lot if half the problems had been solved. We are also prepared to support any amendment to this, only to make it clear in Parliament that these conducts are unacceptable, underestimating and that any sanctions must finally be imposed. Mrs Duhovnikova is sitting comfortably in her chair, saying that her legislation prevents her from solving this problem, refers to legal opinions, with subcontractors having a second legal opinion, with the position of the Minister of Finance in order to obtain payment from the sum of the guarantees. And it is not true that any double payment would occur. The fact is that Dars has a bank guarantee for the good performance of works and the payment of subcontractors, both addresses include this 10% guarantee, the value of some EUR 800 million, which is €80 million, and subcontractors' claims are worth €8 million. Well, I guess it would be. It's an option. On the committee we also found a number of other interesting things, I would call it under the slogans, or some incredible affection for Dars SCT as the main contractor. The first is that Dars paid up, I'd say, almost pre-advanced, SCT claims. There was no payment non-discipline here, there was no delay, no deadline, on the contrary, it was paid substantially before the deadline, with a symbolic discount. This is, respectfully, extremely unusual, despite Dars already having warnings, letters from subcontractors that they were not paid by the SCT as the main contractor. So if Dars wanted to treat his subcontractors properly, he would probably have kept the situation somewhere, looked at what he had paid the subcontractors and paid them out of that situation, because it was the legislation we adopted here that allowed him. No, it was some kind of extreme affection, in my opinion of Spain among these people, and of course the result is that the company is in a forced settlement, despite this kindness of the state Dars, and that subcontractors are unpaid. Unpaid are small, probably medium-sized enterprises. Those to whom, in line with the recommendations, the European Union guidelines are intended to give the most attention to allowing them to grow, because they are a flexible part of the economy that can provide jobs in the future. These are also, not least, taxpayers, employers, and the problem is that they also have outstanding obligations towards their business partners, either when it comes to equipment for energy and so on. And last but not least, there are workers here who are probably out of wages. And, Your Honor, how can we then be satisfied with any decision or not to support the decision that is here today, if the problem is known for a few months, we have repeatedly called for it to be resolved and it has not been resolved? And you think it's enough that, once again, I don't know if the government has taken a decision in April to solve it, but it's almost a month already, and nothing has happened at that time, and they say that the matter is too complicated to be resolved so quickly. It's not too complicated. It's clear what's done. Are those works confirmed or not confirmed? It is also very clear that there is money for these works and is in Darsa’s hands in the form of a bank guarantee. But I, Your Honor, am afraid that colleague Majhenič of the Slovenian National Party is right. I am afraid that this money is not that neither are these bank guarantees, that there is nothing and that Dars also went across the borders of the law, also across the borders of a good master, to the extent that he does not have the means to pay for it and that he has violated the rules here. I hope, Minister, that I am wrong and ask you here, do you have this information mentioned today by Comrade Majhenič, that Dars no longer has the guarantees of ensuring a good performance of works and of course paid the subcontractors 10%? And I'm also asking you, do you have any data on how much — percentage or absolute amount — has he already been paid for carrying out the foot of the highway, that is, what did Dars SCT pay? Let's see if there's anything else left for anything. These were the questions that we referred to the Dars administration and to the absent President of the Dars Supervisory Board. There were no answers. Or they were so vague that we had to repeat the questions three times and received three vague answers and then you know who quits. And there's one more thing. Dear Minister, is it normal for the President of the Darcy Supervisory Board, despite the four-time invitation to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission meeting, to find no time to attend? A man who is for at least a decade in state services who has held leading positions where the country is a hundred percent or far-off majority owner, that is to say, a kind of a state superintendent? The man is yelling at the Slovenian Parliament and the parliamentarians! Let me remind you of the words of the Prime Minister at the beginning of this term, when he said that there would be a lot in Parliament, that he would talk to us a lot, respect and give something to Parliament. Mr Medved Milan, President or Director of Coal Velenje and President of the Supervisory Board of Dars, did not find any time to come to Parliament despite a four-time invitation. Who was he talking to, I mean, what prevented him from coming? Business meetings? And there's only one buyer, that's the Chestnut Termoelectricarium. He's not selling Velenj Lignite anywhere but to Shostany. What was so important that he didn't come to Parliament? He didn't have anything important. He ignored the parliamentarians and his responsibility before us. Why? Because he knows that he is not responsible for us, he knows that he is responsible for his botts who have put him in this place, and they are not sitting in Parliament, I don't think they are in the government, but they are the customeristic connections that govern this country. And Dars, your honor, is the tip of the iceberg. This is the factor that has come to light on the day that we see those who have state assets that care about investments in tax money being turned on by the legislature, on the executive branch, and probably turn up some kind of phone and then come or come no matter what the godfather says back. Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. Since these are wise despite having already accepted us several times, it seems to me that, unanimously, the conclusions on the committee are to be resolved. These people are still sitting there, no one's ever been hurt, no one's ever been handed a bill. Dear Minister, the third question: have you requested a report on the progress made in paying subcontractors before this meeting today from Prime Minister Dars? How many cases have been resolved positively, how negative, how many are not solved, and why are those negatives solved negatively? That's what we're interested in here today. And we're wondering, do you believe that this solution will come and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I see more reports. Please, who wants to discuss it, please sign up for the debate. Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. The problem of non-payment of subcontractors is not only a problem on the roadside, the problem is broader, in construction, not only from public funds, including probably from some other means or where operators have worked and have not paid their subcontractors, even at local level, so this is a very wide problem that we cannot define just one road section of the ferry and say, but now we will solve everything. A systemic solution will have to be found if there are no other solutions. Part of the system solution is through the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, where you allow yourself to be able, past the main contractor, to pay these, part of the solution is that people who have brought businesses into difficulty, insolvency can no longer run on these funds and that you pay in this way. But the second part is, of course, to solve each individual case individually. I think that the cases in Slovenia where payments are not made are not the same. It is not possible to say, of course, that one model, if there are 25,000 applications on Dars, in the face of the problem of the suburban motorway, I firmly believe that they are not only part of this road section, but are also more broadly those that have not been paid, and this was also clearly stated on the Commission by subcontractors who were not paid until the contract was concluded, despite the fact that subcontractors made a declaration at the time of signing the contract that they have all obligations to the main contractor settled. Why did they do that? Because they got the job. Because it was a condition, because he's a great builder, any one of us not to mention, he just made it conditional. And such stories are, of course, enough on many construction sites, on many things. And that's why, of course, subcontractors are in crisis and suppliers of equipment, and I don't know who else is. Why, of course, did this money go for other purposes or somewhere else, it's just a story of tycoonism, possession, and I don't know what else, because I'm saying, and like I said, there's no road section, tunnel, bridge that's to be stocked and unpaid. They're all paid from public funds. The question is whether in 15 days, 30 or whatever. Therefore, it is necessary, and we think, in the Group of Members, that a complex solution must be resolved in order to find a solution, how and in what way, and we do not run away from it, and we think that subcontractors should be supported when the requirements are justified. Then, when he also gave a false document to get the job, the question is whether he can get it to one road section or whether it is legally sustainable or possible. However, to return, of course, to the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the debates we had – I was in these last discussions, I was not in February – and indeed, in this debate, it was part of Darsa's administration and where we tried very hard to find out. The problem is in one article of the contract, where there are no reserved resources to be able to make payments within a guarantee period or to obtain these guarantees. And because the article is such that it allows this guarantee to be transferred to another period. In view of the fact that there is no possibility that the SCT, which was the main contractor and its subcontractors, Vegrad, Road Company and others, would obtain appropriate bank guarantees. And now we're in trouble. Whether all the guarantees and all these things are spent immediately, despite the fact that some claims are long overdue, they were paid monthly, subcontractors with some delay, but this delay has already exceeded all the hands. None of these subcontractors, and none of these subcontractors, have been pressured in the way of – perhaps with smaller things – but they have already threatened "I will not work anymore", and they have received a couple hundred thousand euros or a couple of tens of thousands of euros, and the deal has gone on again, but the payments have not run. Why? Because, of course, payments were made for two, three objects back. This is the reality that has been in this sector, and that is why construction has now stopped. Construction no longer has new projects, no new money, no more credits, no more possibility to pay back. Construction companies are insolvent and now, of course, subcontractors have fallen out. And here's the basic problem that is. And we, as the National Assembly, as a legislative body, have to make sure that this is done legally. In order for those who have the opportunity to receive payment from this, this will also be paid. That where, of course, the deadline has expired, where, of course, the claims have passed because there are no more guarantees for some other road sections, because they are already usable, and when these guarantees expire, because – this is at least what the contract annexed to the Commission for the supervision of public finances says – in fact, when the license is valid for a certain road section, the guarantee for the payment of subcontractors is null. One more day. If it has not been reported by then and things have not been carried out, it shall no longer apply. There's no more resources. So it's the risk of the one who didn't sign up at the time. The point is that even where these useful permits are available, subcontractors have not been paid. For me, the problem is anyone who hasn't been paid, not just at the department, where there's no usable license or whatever. It's about everything. We're gonna have to find her. Why do we not support this conclusion? Because this decision tells us that within 15 days the government will find a system to resolve this. That's what this decision says. The government did so on 21 April, when it asked Dars, the Ministry of Transport, the Capital Investment Management Agency, to do certain things, to report within 7 days to the Government on how these things would be established and to come with a result within 60 days. It's not been 60 days. That's what this is all about. If this decision were to talk about how and how they would do it and probably could not accept it, it would be something else. But the government has already done it. We accept post-festum conclusions. It's possible to accept it as a post-festum. It is also possible to say that it is, but the government has obviously responded to public pressure, to the Commission's pressure to monitor public finances and has already adopted such a decision on 21 April. The minister will probably tell us what stage these things are at, how they're done, whether that's possible. But 25 grand, there's a number here, 24, 25 thousand claims, you'll have to look at everyone. Some have papers, some don't have papers. There was a lot of work going on at home. In some cases, compensations were made which were not carried out financially. Someone could, perhaps, get overpaid at the expense of someone else who won't get paid. And when it is paid to the first, this payment must be made justly, to be known. And this is the responsibility of Dars, the Ministry, the Government and us, that someone who gets paid will not get paid unjustly, but that, of course, everyone will pay justly and that all those who are entitled to this payment will also be settled. In 30 days, approximately, we will ask the Government - and I think the Public Finance Supervisory Commission will ask - how far and where the solutions are made. Until then, this conclusion is as it is. At the moment, this Decision is already in force, at least as it is written. And I have no idea what and how. As for human responsibility, there must be some responsibility in the current administration. At least in the part where she paid those guarantees that she was supposed to. And it's the responsibility of the previous administrations. The Treaty was concluded in 2006 with a clause whereby, of course, it is possible to transfer a guarantee and withdraw the cash flow out. Despite instructions, despite clear instructions from the Ministry of Finance, also published in the Official Journal, what guarantees must be and where they should be. Darsa's contracts were typical. And what's been shown to us, they all have the same clause inside, as far as these things are concerned. And there is something about public funding in such contracts. I am afraid that this National Assembly or the Public Finance Supervisory Commission will then meet with all these constructionists. We can't solve them. It is necessary to resolve this between the contracting authority, the contractor and the subcontractor. And they're the only ones who can find a solution. But we can find marriage solutions to prevent this in advance. What happened, unfortunately, happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! We have a problem of not paying the performers, this time mainly on the Moorway, but when we read the material, it's huge. In this segment of non-payment of operators by the SCT on the Moorway, it is, according to the data contained here, EUR 8 million. We can imagine how much this insolence is for the whole of Slovenia. And how many small businesses have been destroyed and will be destroyed on this account. I see that the Minister is completely unharmed in this matter, benevolent in his conduct and that these jobs and these companies are the ninth concern of this government. In the situation we are in when every job should be kept. A small company, all these companies cannot be created overnight and without capital. It's all falling apart and it's gone. Director Darsa, Director of Management, Mrs Duhovnikova, and apparently policy, the current ruling, is concerned that she is delaying to cover those who have cleared the money, in this case the SCT. The SCT has been a privileged contractor for 20 years, a privileged recipient of money from the budget through Dars. The assessment has fallen to reach 30 % higher price than would have been necessary by these large builders with these connections, with this zemonic agreement. This is actually the core of the decline of Slovenia. Here she plunged into the abyss of Slovenia, when consciously left political options supported financial, construction and political oligarchs in this country. You could have afforded anything. In the courts, they prevented any termination of proceedings, etc. And that goes on. What power do we have, or do we have in our hands? Now, if the government coalition supports this corruption, anarchy, etc., then we cannot enforce it. Otherwise, we have political power because the policy did not wish through the supervisory authorities to replace the Director of Administration, Mrs Duhovnikovo, despite the Court of Auditors' request. One minister was replaced by the Prime Minister of the Government. Well, don't say you can't. To change, but this is to protect the irregularities in this country. All we have is this power to ask the minister to step down because he doesn't want to solve these matters. If he behaves carefreely here, then it is known that he does not want to solve this. That failure, I don't know how much, a couple hundred small businesses, is less important than it's important that Director Dars survive. This is not the first time we have seen transparently how the Director of Management works. When the traffic inspector prevented one of the subcontractors from building the Stožice at the opening of the Stožice, the slave workers there were able to express by public protest that they were not paid, the traffic inspector closed the ramps on the highway, on the bypass, do you remember? On the grounds that there could be a breakdown. This was a catastrophic humiliation of the technical intelligence of designers and everyone else, and also Darsa, in fact, who supervised all of this, but Mrs Duhovnikova did not step in the defense of the engineer, did not stand up to her company, but bowed to Mr Jankovic, there was no timely response. Then we discussed on the committee, although Mr Weber called for further conclusions, he did not call as far as I know. They survived the inspector with such an impossible, unlawful justification, although all the professors of the Faculty of Construction said, "Even if the tanks stood there, what was designed would not have been broken," but for the needs of the Ljubljana mayor they did so, and Mrs Duhovnikova, who, after the elections, flew around at midnight to Mr Janković, was quick to support, such as, let me say, the jokes and impossible things by the inspector. We then called on the minister to act, and he said he could not act, and so on. There's nowhere to take action for this government. If there are oligarchs on one side, people dedicated to the left hand authorities cannot be acted on. Then it is better for a hundred companies, three hundred companies or five hundred companies with a few thousand workers to die than to act against SCT or against Dars. Why didn't SCT pay for this? That money's gone somewhere. SCT's going down today. It's going down. But apparently these are pre-planned games, because they've been operating for 14 days with a silent strategic partner who's about to enter the SCT. Are these 8 million with whom subcontractors on the suburban highway have not been paid and other millions of euros in the pocket of this silent strategic partner? Mr. Secretary, tell me! They can't hide who that company is taking over with, and nobody knows it. These are the worst secrets. I am sure that politics is involved in this. He's cooperating, and do you know where the money went at the expense of small businesses? I'm sure it's someone who's protecting him. But now it is necessary to buy time, to make a few curves to cover the trail of how this money traveled. As a result, the entire Slovenian economy, the state is failing, seems to be in the worst financial situation in Slovenia. Others across Europe, in the European Union, the economy is rising, on the path of a solution, only with us is a completely hopeless situation. And how she won't be hopeless, but if the minister won't act, the government won't act, even though we should do something, don't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Many times the Social Democrats have been mentioned in this issue, but I want to make it very clear that we have taken responsibility for transport policy and for leading Dars. The moment the highway is completed, the bills are coming. Of course, these bills aren't from one year ago. Most of them are from two, three years ago. Also for the construction of the Moorish motorway is the fact that the contracts were concluded in 2007, 2008 and that these contracts were concluded by the previous administration, that the clauses in these contracts are such that the guarantee for the payment of subcontractors is also a guarantee for the payment of Dars for the good performance of the works. I am sure that if we cash out all the guarantees for good work today, maybe in a month, two in this same Parliament will discuss why the money for good work has been earmarked for the payment of subcontractors. This is one of the very serious issues that certainly stems from the fact that every case that has been filed, which is 25 000 after this record, really needs to be dealt with separately. And that's also the government's conclusion that Dars is going to start doing this immediately. And we expect that, in fact, the Capital Investment Management Agency will also, by its function, achieve that Dars will start reviewing each of these 25,000 applications. If we can get even deeper into this issue, why there are any difficulties in paying subcontractors, we can certainly stop with the issue of very intensive corporate buy-outs and that very much of the funds went into the ownership of the company and less worrying about what will happen to the company tomorrow and how it can pay, say, subcontractors. That's one of the reasons. I hope that we all agree that these managers' buyouts have not taken place now, in these two years, since we have been running the government, but have formed these managers' buybacks substantially before, especially when there was money. And when it was money, we warned the previous government that economic growth must be slowed down, and investment must therefore be limited. But it happened the other way around. The former government has leased loans to accelerate investment, and it was entirely expected that these construction companies would be in the same position as they did before 2008, for example, on the US market and in other European countries where there were already clear signs of overheating the economy, and that this will simply not happen anymore. But, simply, even in 2008, when it was already quite clear that the economy would not endure this and that even construction companies would not withstand it, it was borrowing credit and accelerating investment. And when you have an extraordinary investment promotion in a short period of time, there will certainly be a period when these investments are simply not there. And one of the important reasons is that today these subcontractors are not paid — because of the unreasonable signing of contracts and the acceleration of investments. I am aware that – even at the expense of what we have done in this Parliament many times, when we have discussed highways or, in fact, every time we have adopted either the national programme's rebalancing or the annual highway maintenance and construction programme, we have talked about that – highways should be built as soon as possible and that this was the interest of the National Assembly. At the same time, of course, these analyses did not take place during these discussions, but what happens if we really do everything in such a short time. Political will was also due to elections that highways were built as soon as possible, and that this is one of the successes that the current authorities can present as "look, we were successful", and this was not the last time Janševa Vlada did. And that the problem is even worse today, due to the payment of these subcontractors, the toll system has also changed. Instead of thinking about really putting in place a closed toll system as soon as possible, to pay as much as you actually do on the highway, it went to change, first of all, before years closed, which applies to the coastal highway leg, into an open system which, of course, allowed many places close to to the toll stations to avoid it and, of course, was significantly more friendly, while, of course, less money was collected in Darsa treasury. And if we go one step further when the vignettes happen. These wines were absolutely undervalued when they were introduced, at least once the price of vineyards was too low when they were introduced, but this was introduced only because of the political interest in how to win the elections at the time. But this was decided by the government of Janez Janša, this decision. And where to get this money that went past Darsa, which went past the budget of the Republic of Slovenia today, so that we can pay more effectively subcontractors and all the works that have actually been done. It's the task of this government right now. The accounts are coming today, the events have happened significantly earlier, and saying that there is no interest in solving this problem is at least what is, very unfair. This decision of the Government, which was adopted, is also very clear. It speaks of an immediate approach to finding solutions for the payment of subcontractors, and this is also why we feel that it is unnecessary or actually a worse decision proposed by the Commission to control the budget to offer concrete solutions within fifteen days for the payment of the subcontractor and so on. This process is already under way and therefore this decision is not necessary. Not that we don't support him. We also support this, for sure, that this problem of subcontractors is resolved, but at this stage of the hearing in the National Assembly it is unnecessary, since the Government has already decided that it will proceed without delay to seek solutions for the payment of subcontractors. So a whole series of questions and reasons is, I will not say guilty, but somehow encouraged that today many small businesses, many subcontractors are hard to survive, many have also failed and, of course, very large unemployment has also occurred in Slovenia. And also because of the decline in investments today, we face even greater consequences of the economic crisis than if these investments were to be more intelligently divided into longer periods and, of course, at the same time, we have not least prepared documentation for intensive railway construction, which is a new priority in this area, but – how many railway sections were placed in a space two years ago to be able to talk today about accelerating economic growth by investing in the urgently needed modernisation of rail infrastructure? Very little. In fact, we have come into a situation where we are talking about whether we will even be able to draw on the European funding for these investments, because the documentation is not yet ready for this phase, so that the work can be carried out and the work will begin. And we have also recently started a debate, which we will also continue on Luke Koper, because it was obvious, why we do not continue to place both tracks on this most important leg, which leads from Luke Koper to the European Corridor. If we were to do this to that extent, we would not be able to do so today by putting the route into space, so consciously the decision was to update and edit one track first and then, of course, in the following way, because it is also followed by the need to load the tracks itself, you are putting another track into the next stage. And that is the one, I would say, continuity or gradual construction and division of parts in individual periods, that then we do not achieve at some point abnormally, we can say, economic growth or extremely high economic growth, and in another moment, of course, we fall into a complete impossibility to make investments and thus, of course, very small economic growth. In such a way that these measures, which are taken at the level of the Government and during this period, are going in this direction, so that it is significantly more rational to plan where funds are invested and to make it more rational, I hope to say so, they are also giving work and that the impact on public funds is significantly greater than at some point in time when economic growth was otherwise; at the time, construction prices were automatically 40% higher than normal. But since then, it's been accelerating and more money has been thrown into a single meter of highway than it would have been necessary. So that this situation in which we are today really requires a much more rational and sober thinking, and I am sure that this is exactly what cannot be seen, or the responsibility of this government alone, to pay these subcontractors and only that of Darsa. Absolutely not. The matter is related to many years or is significantly more related to years before this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u125	I think that the problem that we are talking about today is extremely big, huge, it is certainly very complex, and that as many subcontractors as there are, there are also different stories. I think it is right for us to talk about this today, that this National Assembly should also conclude. If nothing else, because I think it's insurmountable that, along with consciousness, what's going on, you put your head in the sand and deny the reality that we're living in. The reality in which many construction companies, many small, family enterprises, are failing to resolve this situation is clearly the case. In doing so, I should like to make it very clear that I think the Minister of Transport has been extremely involved in this matter in accordance with his options and responsibilities. But it is obvious that we have introduced a new human resources paradigm at the wrong time, that the time of economic crisis, which has accumulated and flooded many of the problems that should be solved by politics, was also a time when politics has been extremely active in withdrawing from the economy from many state-owned enterprises. And today, this policy no longer has leverage, not human resources or anything else, to actively and sharply address these problems, to solve them, or to demand the leadership of these companies to solve them immediately. Today, some have also debated that some subcontractors may have been irresponsible because they did not claim their funds in time. But please nicely – on the one hand there were big strong companies, I will not name them, which even today, when they are weak, arouse some awe and on the other hand there were small fish who knew that tomorrow's bread of their employees and the existence of the company depended again on these big ones. It is no wonder that in a country that regularly creates an impression – I do not claim to be completely correct, but it is strong – that only some are protected in this country, and the weak often lose protection, that they have not adequately protected their position, but that they have given in to hope, "maybe they will pay us tomorrow, maybe they will pay us next month, let us hold back until autumn and then it will be better". But I would like to talk today about a specific case where some other main contractor, which most are talking about today, took care of what the main contractor owed them in the highway programme on the suburban highway. They had confirmed temporary situations for work carried out in 2005. When no payments were received from the main contractor, they submitted a motion to the court for a provisional order that the main contractor retain the amount of funds to be paid to that subcontractor. With this provisional order they were successful and Dars, on the basis of this provisional measure of funds – about EUR 240 000 – said the change, a drop in the sea compared to the billions of highway programs – was appropriately retained. In order to maintain the provisional order in force, they had to file a complaint against Dars, succeeding in the first stage, which was on 7 September 2006, after having received a provisional detention order of 10 months earlier. They succeeded in the second stage of Dars’ appeal and then came at the end of 2010 – 5 years after the works had been carried out, 4 years after the first stage court had given the company the right and maintained the decision that Dars must have these assets held – the Supreme Court’s judgment, which it found, noted that the situation in 2006, more than a year after the works were carried out, had not yet reached. It's a fantastic payment period. More than a year. Why? In view of the fact that the Court of First Instance is to comply with Article 631 of the Bond Code, which lays down the assumptions as to when a subcontractor can be paid instead of payment to the principal operator, the condition laid down in Article 631(1) is clearly not met at some point. This company received its funds following a successful action at the second stage, on its own account. Today, due to the misapplication of material law, works on the highway are properly carried out, as confirmed by both the main contractor and the contracting authority, Dars – five years later forced to return funds together with interest, which will cause one small company with 20 employees to be forced to close its doors on the day of the currency to pay their obligations to employees, to their country, to their partners. Darsa’s legal service relies elegantly, comfortably on the Supreme Court’s judgment, regardless of the fact that everyone in this country’s sanity is clear that something is very wrong in this case. Something very wrong also in other cases, where we have obviously been too long, not only in this mandate, but, I agree with my colleague Webro, even before that, they have tolerated that the great could always blackmail small ones and set conditions for them to stay on the market to do something to give people work and fair pay, they have repeatedly removed. And for that, my dears, all governments are responsible so far. All governments so far. Perhaps at least the current government, which is trying, with a lot of commitment, as I mentioned at the outset, to solve this problem today. There's one more thing I'd like to warn you, and that's the source of insolence. You know, months ago, in this National Assembly, we had a package of legislation against payment non-discipline. I firmly believe that this problem is properly called insolvency in this country — the fact that money is gone — but not the issue of discipline. So whether I'm bad or not, I don't pay anyone. We have only a few insolvent hotspots in the country: a highway program where stories are five years old and older, we have Stožice, we have a housing fund, it's called built, but not sold apartments, and maybe some other. Instead of trying to save the hotspots of this insolventness, we have decided to change linearly, I will say, those fundamental rules of business in this country, which in the developed and modern world apply for at least 100 years, and that is not right. We will have to face the fact that these hotspots need to be removed immediately and I will be the first to say in this situation, "so let's ignore this new human resources paradigm, in order to achieve the responsibility of those who need to move here and solve these problems". If I recall Mr Visionak's statement a little earlier, and if I subtract 30% of her zeal and great conspiration, I must say that I almost fully agree with her. If this decision is to contribute or not, however, as I pointed out at the outset, to the undisputed efforts of both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance to cut this problem short, I will support the proposal for this decision because I do not want to keep my head in the sand in the face of this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Your Honor! We all know that Shakespeare dilemma, expressed through his hero, "how rotten in the country of Denmark is." I can say that Shakespeare was very lucky not to be living in the present time and to know Slovenia and Dars, because then I could write quite a few tragedies about what was going on with Darsa, how many family tragedies were there because of how many companies went bankrupt, how many family companies went bankrupt, how many people were suffering from this, so that the dilemma in Denmark was probably just minor in this regard. But whatever we're turning this thing around, there's this triangle: the Ministry, the Government on the one hand, on the other hand, the agency that was set up about, what, half a year or a year ago, and Dars. Each institution, including Dars, has its own leadership and its own supervisors. And every institution has a senior supervisor. And if we go in this triangle, if Dars is like the lowest, he's got the board of directors or the board of directors. And the owner of this Darsa is an agency, so I understand from this act establishing this agency. The owner or, if you want, the agency's supposed to be the government. That is, if Dars isn't doing well, he needs to start with the supervisors or the administration, and if they don't, then their supervisor has to do it, that's the agency. But if they don't do it, the government must intervene, the current government. And an excuse, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, with all due respect, but you can't say there's nothing you can do. You have measures. In the National Assembly, it was decided that someone — the director of Darsa — should be removed. Their supervisors get excited anyway. You have a chance to influence the agency to do something about Dars. But if the agency doesn't do anything, then they need to be replaced. You have the tools. At this point, it's you. At some other point, there's probably gonna be someone else, but that's the way it is. There's no saying that that's not going to work. So someone's not doing something, we're saying it in this triangle. If we draw things on paper and find out who's in charge, that's the way it is. The government, the ministry, comes out in the final stages. And if anyone wants to, they're just going to the clinic. But Darsa's administration and supervisors are laughing at the camera and saying, "That's none of our business, I don't have to do that." Sorry, you don't have to pay for subcontractors – where else did you see that? And something else that seems very important to me. There's been a lot of talk about MPs' salaries and the last few months about mayors, as if the mayors are guilty of everything because they have double wages, and it's not true. The mayors don't have a double salary. In the municipality they get compensation because they're non-professionals, I think 40%. But that's been in the sky lately. We have recently read that Mrs Duhovnik has twice the salary paid by the best-paid minister than the best-paid Members. She doesn't have to do anything, she doesn't have to answer anything! And then there's the other one. At Dars, they're talking about sharing another reward for the success of the job. Yes, please, come on! And there's nothing these people can do! It doesn't work together. If we move on. This loving SCT, which has not paid the performers, are just these games now and are expected to go to bankruptcy and then one article will be interrupted and then the chain will be gone. Then it may begin to take action, but we will say that the chain is broken here and regrettably, but now nothing can be done. But I think my forerunner said something essential. That the rule of law doesn't work. The rule of law does not work, and I think that at least as much as we show here – from left to right and from here to the minister perhaps to the previous government – should be shown to the court, they know the authorities. Or are they doing everything right? Brother Frangež said well — after five years, they decided that there was something missing there six or seven years ago. Yes listen, at this time companies are going bankrupt and their successors are going bankrupt, and this judicial authority is doing it that way. And we might be wondering if that last decision was really professional or not, maybe political. We can ask ourselves that. That's the kind of work we can ask ourselves. That is to say, here along with a peaceful soul, in addition to all that we have already said, a peaceful soul will be given to the judiciary and a peaceful soul I claim that the rule of law does not work with us. Now we're going somewhere else, and I'm going to say so – and then the highest instance in Slovenia, the president of the country says that some are maligning the courts. How? They can muddy themselves with their work or boast about their work. But they can't brag about this kind of work. And if the courts are losing their reputation, then surely with such acts as the fellow Member had previously explained that I will not explain it again. That's right. You can't have a more negative opinion about the court than you can in a case like this. It's not possible. It's not possible. Of course, here we can ask ourselves, Who now supports something and who supports whom? I started with a triangle: the government, the ministry, the agency and Dars. In the final stage, the Government is the one with the last word, especially if it is backed by a decision, a request from the National Assembly. For the time being, this was on the Commission for the supervision of public finances. If we accept here today, then the government has to do so, and the government has this tool. Then let it go gradually. First, the agency will replace everything that needs to be done, set up new ones that will, of course, make an order at Darsa. It has been said that it is not possible to replace Mrs Duhovnikov and the Government is looking at this calmly, but it is the indirect instance of the last person who can act. With regard to Dars, there was also a decision, the Court of Auditors' decision, and nothing happened, but it happened in the case of Minister Erjavac, for, as was said, a couple of buckets of garbage. Now I ask you what's worse – a couple of buckets of garbage, all that means, or, I don't know, run a few hundred companies, what's worse now? Prime Minister, the government has acted, replaced someone for a couple of trash cans, and nothing is done because of the one who caused the bankruptcy of some 100 companies. And not just that. Even construction, the whole branch is in trouble. We are watching calmly how one such company that did not pay subcontractors is being bribed in Germany, and how, of course, its director was being punished because he bribed there, in a multinational called Man – so we could read it, I don't know it, but I read it — there went the procedure immediately through Germany, there was a need to pay some 100,000 or millions of euros in fines, was immediately paid. For that he personally had the money to pay subcontractors not that some 100 companies went bankrupt, but even construction was in trouble because of this. It's all construction. This is nothing more than the spread of clientelism and corruption. Now, who's more guilty? This of course is to be discussed, but I said that in addition to all the ones we have already listed, there should be a court involved. Irresistance of the courts and the work of the courts, that's a fact. And obviously, because someone can't be "replaced" when someone claims that they can't be replaced, because of all these consequences, but because of the garbage cans, then the question is asked, but maybe it's just about first-class citizens and second-class citizens, and about second-class topics, obviously. No problem is a few hundred companies in bankruptcy, a few thousand people in bankruptcy, a few 10,000 people in distress, who were not paid any contributions, not in pension, not in health bills. On the other hand, one lady, who cannot be replaced, has twice as much salary as the most paid officials in Slovenia, and is also talking about sharing a reward for a successful job. If these are not first-class and second-class citizens, unfortunately those first-class are very few, very few. Surely there are fewer of them than the companies that went bankrupt due to payment non-discipline only on this premium arm, I am sure that there are fewer of them first-class. But everyone else is second-rate, maybe even third-rate, and someone else can't tell. So, of course, I will support this conclusion, that maybe something means something to remind someone. If this debate helps us to realize, in the end, that even if there is a triangle, there is a site somewhere that can be a start or the end of something and that it can be taken action from there. For the continuation of such a state will lead the country to a hopeless situation. We need to be aware of something — no one but us who are in this country will pull us out of this mud, no one! We'll have to do it ourselves. We'll get started. We'll be able to get out of this sooner. Nobody! As our Prime Minister says, the loans will start to go slowly, that's true. Then what do we do? No more credits. We'll be in charge until we're out of commission. These loans will have to be repaid and we'll have to live. There is no other, it will have to start and it will have to be said, but now it's over! It doesn't work anymore. The first-class can't be the same. We can all be the same. And I will support these conclusions that are foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u128	Anybody else want to discuss this? I see your hands up. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u129	Now that I am listening to some of the debates, I ask again what is actually the essence of this proposed decision. I understand that this decision would mean some sort of animation, so to speak, in order to resolve the problems of unpaid subcontractors who have done their job properly. However, some others have discussed how to make major problems with systemic legislation, how to make subcontractors feel a little guilty, whether they are against the decision or that the decision is not necessary and so on. Now I have to ask myself: if there is no need for a decision, because the Government has already taken a decision as to how there is no report on the implementation of the Government's decision today, in the event of a pre-announcement, to know what measures have been taken, how they have been implemented, what stage they have reached, and so on. How they left us like that, unequipped by the behaviour that someone else probably has, but we unanimously agreed on a decision on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, no one there opposed, from any party, not from the opposition and not from the coalition. How, then, can we be left so ignorant if things are being resolved that they do not tell us that they are being saved, and we are citing and demanding a point of the agenda. That seems to me to be the least unacceptable. And if we look at what the conclusion says, we'll see that the decision is innocent. For the first time, the proposal suggests something, but it does not only propose to the Government, as some have said, that those who have said at this meeting on the record should not do anything about it. That's what the president of the board said. This decision then proposes to approach it immediately, as immediately as the Government has told it to join immediately. And if the deadline of 15 days is inadequate, because it is already part of that deadline that the Government has set itself, it has expired, and in 15 days it will not be complete, and we would write, we would calculate the government, we would need 17 days, not 15 days to make it happen with our hand. And I'm sure they'd agree to that, on those two days, three days or so, nothing would bother me. Let me tell you that the decision of the Commission was made because the finding was, even so, that the bank guarantees for good performance of works were kept in brackets, which could also be used for payments to subcontractors for other purposes of these guarantees. That's what the board said. She said that there were still guarantees in force at the time, but that she would not give them because she kept them for something else, which she did not even have to keep anymore, because the same administration confirmed that all the works had been reviewed, technical checks had been carried out, that they were technically correct and that in fact only the submission of documentation was still missing until the applicable authorisation. So there were no comments on the quality of the works performed. There were comments and demands to pay for what was done in a good way was unpaid. As far as supporting this decision is concerned, our support remains. I think or wonder what the signal will be for those against this decision to send to this administration, which we have just discussed, to the AUKN, who is not doing anything. Who are you sending these signals to? And how will those to whom the board has said that they have done the work properly, do it in time, technically flawlessly, but will not pay them?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u130	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There's been a lot of talk today, and I think I need to add something to it. Number 1, the ferry highway was promised to everyone before the elections of Pomurec in 2004 by the then Prime Minister Mr Anton Rop in Gornji Radgona. I still remember that event today. And he promised that this highway would be completed in 2008, at the end of his term of office. It all happened as he promised, only with the difference that he was not elected Prime Minister at the time. But the previous government in some way took this promise into account, even under pressure from people. And the promotion of this investment was done because of the pressure of people. The civil initiative from Upper Radgona, a respected Mr Weber, was particularly consistent with this pressure. I hope you will agree on this acceleration. Who was speeding up? Who put pressure on the minister? Who asked me to reach an end to the highway six months earlier in the agreed contract deadlines with these contractors? That's when I offered to resign, if you remember, because that was not possible. And the contracts, by the way, were not signed by the previous administration, and so much must be fair and correct, but they were signed by the previous administration, the ones I personally replaced. Civil initiative has put me on the cross for a lot of things. Also because this highway — at the time it was even said that it was not a highway, that it was a fast road — had no lanes. I had to answer the camera a few times because of this and answer why it's so, why there's no seat belts and so on. That's interesting. Today, there are no more questions. Today this highway is good. Withdrawal belts are no longer required. But the difference is, I'm not a minister anymore. Very interesting. And even then, the civil initiative demanded, "we're using withdrawal belts, they must be built at the shortest possible time", and so on. Please, let's be proper. There's been a lot of work going on. I, too, put pressure on the highway to be built in hand, as agreed. First part of August, second part in October. And if you remember, I was waiting for all the necessary permits to be issued so that we could open the highway with usable permits, which was not a scratch before in Slovenia. And when we did the analysis, there were 16 highway legs that didn't have any licenses. Catastrophe. All those who were employed, one way or another, on this highway, were working, even at night. In recent months, it has also been done at night to reach this deadline that was promised to the people to get the trucks out of their bedrooms. That the trucks weren't driving through the bedrooms anymore. Therefore, this investment was accelerated. Because life on this road has been insufferable, as it is today, I will say, with which other, for example, against you in Kočevje, is unsustainable. I'm sure – I don't know what contracts they are, I haven't seen them, but I'm sure – that even on the basis of these contracts, this problem with subcontractors could have been solved. Like the previous administration, not the previous one, the previous one, the one set up by me or our government, saved the subcontractors on the Rebruns. It is true, however, that the contracts from the project to the Dars project did not change, although in the meantime there was some experience, it might be good to change the contract in order to eliminate any anomalies. No, but it's like copy-paste – projects for a project, always the same contracts, always the same calls and always the same problems, of course. But it was not in some way the will to change contracts and invitations to tender. When the contracts and the invitation to tender changed, for example, Markovec, there was fire in the roof. At that time, threats were from all corners and places — from operators of the largest, small, to engineers, to supervision and so on. God don't let anything change! God doesn't let anything change, because business is running away and going like a dirty machine. It's a reality. And you know what bothers me? What bothers me is that lately, however, there has been an opportunity to find a solution and that some contractors have received advance payments, advances. It would be good to see whether this is possible in the contract, or whether this allows. The main contractors received advances and advances. It was all written by some media outlets. No one's worried about that much. But here's the solution. Is that rational? Someone used to wonder about rationality. Is that rational? I don't know why the advances were paid, why the advances were paid. What was this about? I'm not going to let go, but it happened because it's probably not made up. Now no one is asking about the administration; AUKN says, "We will see" and so on. What exactly is the relationship now between Dars and the owners today and yesterday? I'll remind you of what he was like yesterday when the obstacle fell in Shentvid. Do you remember what the relationship was like back then? I was sitting here at an extraordinary meeting of the Transport Committee because the obstacle had fallen in Shentvid as minister. Do you remember this, dear colleagues? It was the minister's fault that the interference fell. Let's be correct and measure with the same meter for everyone. We used to, by the way, tear or make meat out of it. She was the first in the history of this country to hope to cash out the guarantee because something didn't do right. First, she flew away like she said, I don't know. I'll get it over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u132	Mr. Weber, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you. A replica, or an explanation, if I was misunderstood, Mr. Žerjav. I have made it very clear that whenever we have discussed in Parliament either the rebalancing of the construction or the adoption of the national highway construction programme or the annual maintenance and motorway construction programmes, we have always discussed in Parliament that motorways should be completed as soon as possible. And there's nothing different about what you've been trying to tell me, if you're saying it's my fault that the pomur's leg started building earlier. I have made it very clear that the history of paying accounts in this government for what has happened before is directly related to all these accounts. And sharing this responsibility is probably what you would expect from your side to expect a real and fair share of the mandate when you were a minister. And the fact is that I also very clearly pointed out that there was a mechanism that prevented too much overheating in the economy, including a way of financing motorways. We have always tried to increase the dynamics of construction to resources that were not tied to debt, but was a gas tolar, and from year to year it was less dedicated to the gas tolar – then it was called – to build highways and it was increasingly indebted. And in the mandate of the previous government, the way of financing highways has been completely changed; it has not been financed from the highest quality source, but rather through the lease of credits. And this was one of the key mistakes, why we still have much less opportunities today to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, which has also led to the failure of these subcontractors to make these payments today. That's the reason. We can't do anything over the border. And if we weren't in debt at the time, we'd have more room for maneuvers today. The change in the toll system is the same story. How are we supposed to replace the funds that came out because we introduced the vines? The blames were once too low when they were introduced, and even then it was known that any new section that was built was just an extra cost. And these are the moments that certainly affect that Dars has significantly less resources and resources to pay off the loans. In 2014, I think it is clear to everyone that he will not be able to cover at all what was adopted in order to build motorways, i.e. leased loans. And to talk about Dars today having to act in a way that pays everything back just like that and that the problem is solved, it's unfair to see the reason that today the problem with these subcontractors is only in Dars – no, it's not just Dars.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u134	Mr. Weber, you've already arrived in three minutes, which is true of the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u135	Well, that's the end of it. Once again, I stress the need to take responsibility for today's state of affairs in the history of highway construction, and everyone has been involved in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u137	Not even a group of wise men will save this knot. And today, talking about civil initiative being guilty of not paying subcontractors and anything else is probably not true. But very seriously – I agree almost entirely with what Mr Vizjak said. If the government has and has reacted on 21 April, it will now be May 21st, it is one month from then and should have some information on how to save the payment of subcontractors. I don't have enough data to talk here right now because I haven't seen the contracts, I don't know how the guarantees were set. I know when I used to enforce guarantees in my environment that there was a whole war, but we achieved what we wanted, and I think it would be possible here. The SCT is insolvent or in a forced settlement, and if – now I know that it is not that easy – past the coerced manager Zidar can sell even the company, it is concrete or whatever, asphalt base, and sell those 30 more trucks, and the two bulldozers, they pay off these poor people because they know exactly who they didn't pay. You don't have to go through 25,000 of these issues if you're talking about what SCT owes on certain sections of building a fast road. I think that we also need to understand this if once the work has been paid to the main contractor, then it is impossible to pay subcontractors again from this pocket. But I do not know, once again, what is the guarantee – if this is really about 8 million euros and it is still possible to use this guarantee, then let us do it, because we do not have to wait all year, because people who are now in such squabbles are going to go bankrupt or are already. I don't think ownership and management buy-ins should be the reason for subcontractors to be in such trouble. For these manager buyouts, and so on, it's all the fault of the bankers who will never answer. I'm making things very simple, but the circle is that and the bank guarantees have to be cashed if they exist. I would just say that — with these fast roads we had some bad luck, even against Primorski from the Crushed Down. Look, I'll tell you today, I don't know how many miles an hour I can drive. Or 100, because the table is 100, it is a green mark, such as for the highway – because it can drive 110 and so on along the same dimensions. And here we can be tormented by the daily police and hunted down and proved to us that the board that is green should really be blue, and from Sela forward it's green, and here it's blue, the same dimension of the road. I mean, one disaster. Who built this, which government, which government, which Dars, I don't even care about. All I'm saying is that there's a lot of confusion and that this can be fixed. And one authority has this Parliament, this government, to tell someone thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u138	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you. Without who he is, where he is and what he is. Because I tried – I didn’t want to come by, but there were so many different stories and trips to different areas, searching for culprits, is unfair. So let's start with a simple start. Three facts. From the basic point of view. In the story of the construction of the motorway, 8 million Euros were owed to subcontractors. It's a proven fact. It is logical that we wait because we are still confident, but we are only convinced, unfortunately, that we are living in a legal state and that the judicial branch of power will do what it has to do. Nothing happened. So who's gonna pay? If we so much as ask Dars to pay as a subscriber, he'll say, "I paid the contractor, the contractor didn't pay the subcontractor, we're waiting for the legal state, to intervene to the contractor and punish him for not paying." Nothing happened. The second time the state of law fell. These are pure, 100% pure facts, like water. Let's go back to Dars and find out that there's more to the truth and the law. Isn't it? Let us find that instead of retaining 5% of the funds as a commitment, Dars would have had to pay them back when they were found to have been fully done — he made a mistake and allowed himself to pay the contractor who did not pay the subcontractors too early. A big and planned, terrible mistake for me. And we have a bank guarantee. Even the Government or part of the Government has found that the bank guarantee can be used, it can also be used to pay subcontractors. The Ministry of Finance found out, and the vehement contracting authority says, "I won't." Dear colleagues and colleagues. What the hell are you expecting? I'm laughing when I read this conclusion when it says, "We're only proposing to the government." Has the judicial branch done anything? Nothing. But we are proposing to the government, and we are proposing to Darsa, and we are proposing that we should, not propose, request in this decision! [[...]] Who, tell me, today, in this situation, will compensate all unpaid subcontractors for the honest work done, who? If this decision, which will do nothing in any way, is just the reason to talk about it at all, who will? Do these people deserve, let's clear this up, pay for what they've done? You did. When did they deserve it? A long time ago. Did they get it? They're not. Who's gonna pay for them? Dars? There won't be any. The Ministry won't. They don't want them from bank guarantees. Who? Tell me, who? We're talking about them, they need to be solved. We don't want to take a decision, nobody cares who did it, nobody in this country, at least the ones they should have. Who has to pay if he goes to the store? A buyer? What happens if he comes and takes and goes? A cop comes in and locks him up. What happens if a worker, a worker or anyone doesn't pay for electricity? The electrician comes in and cuts it off the next day. Well, not just that. After a month, without asking him, just after a reminder, he gets paid if he even has one, which is what that money takes away. Run! A man who receives and works for 700 euros simply solves the problem if he does not pay. What difference does it make between the one who did not pay 8 million to many, thousands of workers for the work done, and the one who did not pay the electricity? If this guy was saved, there'll be another director for the prize. And you're saying that we have a legal state, and we're the same, and you're arguing about another poor decision that only suggests to someone that someone should do something about it and help pay these people. We don't want anything else. We don't want a fight between the left and right options. EUR 8 million has to be paid to a few thousand people to keep at least a few businesses in this country. It is fair to pay if we do not start going to the store and take the goods and we will not pay, ladies and gentlemen! It's easy to do, let's deal with it! We're gonna call people, and that's how it's gonna be, because that's how the country works. We're gonna say to people, "Go to the store and take it home." No, ma'am and gentlemen, apologies for the injustice done, there's no excuse. Not an economic crisis, not a financial crisis. When there is a financial and economic crisis in the family, the family ceases to buy extra, extra clothes, excess food and buys only what they can and – now no one is going to, but we have completely forgotten about culture and now someone tells me that "we built roads, we knew how much they cost and now it is an economic crisis that we do not have 8 million to pay subcontractors". That's not true. If there is an economic crisis, if there is no money, the work done is paid and the work stopped for so long that the money is raised. That's right. It should be, but it's not. All I care about is who's going to be in this country, I don't think the minister is going to answer, who's going to pay these 8 million to these people, who? And now we're saying, and we're talking around and through and through about all the other problems and millions of things, here at this meeting on this subject, we just don't want a concrete answer. Who's gonna pay for this? If the Ministry of Finance said that they could also cash a bank guarantee for the payment of debts, then I would say that the Ministry of Finance would say, "you have to," because Dars is a state-owned company, "you have to." Not "you can't," "you need her," and you should. The biggest problem here is hidden in the back, I'm sure – now you'll all say it isn't true, and you'll see in a few months – and the bank guarantees won't pay, they don't want to pay it because they can't. But they can't because the banks don't have the money for this guarantee, and they should have it. Now we're right there on the ground. And that's why this state bank will recapitalise under no reason to think that maybe through that money that the state will give to the bank will come mercy on the other hand and say, "Yes, here we are, and now we have mercy and we will cash this guarantee and here we are going to pay." Yes, once again, we taxpayers pay the bank through the state to have the bank have the money to pay the guarantee. That's the truth, whether you believe it or not. And again. One simple conclusion with a recommendation is that one should at least point out that one must solve the problem of these thousands of workers, these 8 million. And nothing else. Tell me – if one of the responsible answers me, who will settle 8 million debts and save these workers and pay for the work done to them, I will be the first to oppose this decision. As long as it's not, I'll back this decision. If I had time and will, I'd change the word "proposal" to "request." So much for our side. Now I really want to hear the answer: Who will pay those workers for the work they have done?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u140	Anybody else want to discuss it, please? Check-in is on. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am not going to get involved in this debate, which I have been following with one ear and one eye out of my room. However, I would like to make one correction to one of the wrong indications in this debate. First of all, I would like to refer to the debate of the Magi. Radovan Žereva, who spoke about his tunnel experience, by disrupting the tunnel and where he mentioned — some were also at the meeting at the time — that he was accused of breaking up. Since I was the convocation of this session, I would like to quote directly in my closing act, very clearly, so I said, "It is not possible to accuse the minister of being responsible for the disruption of the interference in the old tunnel gallery of Šentvid. However, he is directly politically responsible because, under Article 39b of the Law, he is responsible for traffic safety and should stop traffic in this tunnel at the time of the first demolition." That was the point, so much so that, for today's debate, it is irrelevant, I apologize for stealing your time, but it is important to know that no one has accused the Minister of Disruption. [[...]] In this regard, however, we read to him certain other acts or omissions that occurred at that time. But that's today, you might say, last year's snow, but no. For this same threat of inadequate fire protection still remains as a threat, this time to the present minister who sits here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u142	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister! We are talking about a government-management agency-dars triangle, and Minister Patrick as a government representative is nothing. Nothing. We are talking about problems that have taken place that point to systemic clientism and corruption, and none of the government representatives responds to any claim in the National Assembly. I'm sorry. The point has now lasted several hours, and not one of these claims that have been made has been answered by the Minister with a single word. Not a word. My colleague Weber was talking about, I don't know, changing the funding structures of the highway program. This is not the agenda item. Due to the change in the structure of the funding sources of the motorway programme, Dars had no shortage of resources in any year. He always had sufficient funds for the implementation of the programme, and even in this case, which relates to the highway or the motorway leg – the port of the city – he had all the funds provided, Dars. Otherwise, he was unable to perform the invitation to tender and to deliver the part. Dars, with regard to the implementation of the financing of the motorway programme, was not deprived by annual plans and by liquidity flows, nor by the euro. Dars was the one who, by law and by contract, had an obligation in the tenders to verify that the main contractor was paying its subcontractors, which had an obligation to do so. And I'm curious, Mr. Secretary, because you're the only one competent here, whether Dars did his job and did his job. We're only talking about this problem. Dars obviously paid the main subcontractor, so to speak, he had all the funds he had provided for his whole leg because he also paid for everything, but he did not re-check or implement those contractual obligations which he imposed on him to verify that this main contractor was paying its subcontractors. That's all we're talking about, and that's the problem with this agenda item. Everything else is a scenic view of the development of the highway. And it's obviously not in this particular case – the government, the managing agency and Dars – for one thing, I'm going to say, a political triangle or a business triangle, about a chain. It is also a different triangle, obviously, because I cannot imagine that despite the numerous irregularities found, despite the poor audit report of the Court of Auditors, everyone is moving and shoving their heads into the sand — from the relevant organs on Dars, from the relevant authorities that own Darsa and from the relevant authorities that own Darsa. Everybody! Nobody does anything, nobody wants to make any moves. Are systemic clientism and corruption now the rule of law of this mandate? This is a question and an immediate answer is needed to this question. And what the Commission proposes with a decision is an invitation to the most responsible in this country, which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on its behalf the Minister, to take action to decide to withdraw the sanction to set an example. None of this is going to happen in spite of all these findings of all the competent authorities, nothing. Is this just because you just appointed Darsa in your term of office, that's your administration of Darsa? That's why. Everything else you say about all other matters is marginals and points of discussion. Once again – Dars had all the financial resources provided under the law because he had to have them because of the nature of the procedures, because of the guarantees laws, whether it was a gas toll or not – he was covered with other resources, with debts, credits and so on – and could not pay the share until he had the financial structure provided. The works were committed, the works were then also continued, the works were realized, the works were paid, but those who carried out the part did not receive the money. And we're only talking about this question of how this is possible and why this happened and why it doesn't want to cash guarantees to the main contractor. This is a question because money for good performance is also a guarantee for compliance with contractual provisions and so on. And Dars has these guarantees, and God knows them for some reason, for whatever triangle he doesn't cash in for. And that's the only question, and here the rule of law stands or falls. And if the government tolerates such a situation, it is systematically placed in corruption and money laundering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u144	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much again for your word. I was talking about having a relationship with Dars yesterday and today. Yesterday, the relationship was just like I told you. It's a little different today. I don't know why there's a difference. There's no need to make any difference. At that time, it was an investment and an investment event. Today, we are talking about internal organisational issues, if I say so, or individual responsibilities in Dars. At the time, the minister was guilty, now you speak politically, politically, whatever. I was nailed — anyone who had five minutes of time in this country, for that distraction, remember. By the way, the Šentwisk tunnel is far the safest tunnel or tunnel in the country and far beyond the assessment of foreign institutions. Minister, is it true? And one more thing. Because we're always listening here to these and different readings about vinjets. Please, you should also stop bragging about how we reduced the number of dead on Slovenian roads. However, it is necessary to be so honest that one of the key moments in Slovenia is that the number of dead people fell on the roads, that blames played a key role, while new sections of highways and, of course, increased penalties. And if anyone in this country imagines that just like that, with our left hand, we're going to set up a new toll system and start cashing 20, 30 or not knowing how many percent more from the toll line, he's very wrong, because in this case we're going to have empty highways, paved parallel roads and a huge number of dead. I hope that we are aware of this when we are also discussing the contention and indisputability of vineyards. And one more thing, Mr. Brultz, when you were insulting about a group of wise men. With egoism, elitism, narcissism and this political culture that we have in this country, and politics, we will not get too far, believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u146	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary. I give my word to Mr. Webber, then it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you, Chairman. Let me explain again about the vignettes for a little while. I claim that the price of wine when introduced was once too low, as the number of traffic at today's price did not drop at all. And this is the key mistake that will be very difficult to correct in the future. We are aware that the change in the toll system once introduced is extremely difficult. But these financial consequences are also present today. And also with regard to the change in the way highways are financed by credits, I say – if we did not have so many credits today, we could talk here in Parliament today about whether we would approve, if you wanted, a new loan of EUR 8,9 million to be able to borrow from Dars for subcontractors. One of the variants. That's the fact that we're in today. We have drawn up quality resources and opportunities to solve this problem when accounts have to be paid. At that time, of course, laws were passed that gave Dars the opportunity to close the financial structure. I'm talking about paying the bills today. And I fully agree with the fact that those who caused the non-payment because of the funds they had already received from the construction of the motorways have spent on, say, building apartments and hiring new loans for completely different programmes, but this has not turned out to be something that colleague Barovic suggested, which needs to be examined and who should also be closed. And until the funds that have been lost are recovered, then we can also hire a new loan through these new sources to pay back subcontractors. It's a system that's built throughout the history of highway construction. It didn't happen yesterday, it didn't just happen today, it's been happening throughout the history of highway construction, I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u148	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you, Chairman. First, a few words about my attitude towards the question of subcontractors. Don't be afraid, Mr. Tanko, that I'll be quiet, because you know I'm snug, that I like to say something. When I first received notice that subcontractors were not paid, I met with them and talked to them. From then on, I am as active as I can be within my powers. Much has been said today about what, in fact, we have done in this time of year as a government or as a minister. I wish those claims that could be paid had long been paid. I think I've said my wish several times, and I can repeat it here again. From a simple, purely human point of view: if someone has done something, it is right to get paid, of course, within what means that you have settled things legally and that this is so that there is no damage to public funds. This is the maximum, it is a principle that means more or less to anyone, not to anyone, not to any government, opposition or anyone. That's right, and beyond that, I don't think any of us are going to go. I've also informed the government of what's going on very early. Then I suggested we convene a meeting where there were several ministers. This is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which assessed that the guarantee for the payment of subcontractors could be cashed. The essence of this notice is nothing more than the actual confirmation of our Ministry of Finance that it is such a content. Because it didn't have the right effect, we were sitting with subcontractors again. I then proposed to the Government a decision which states that it calls on the Agency, namely the AUKN, to require the company to immediately begin to address each sub-contractor's claim individually and to define it individually. And we've also set up the hands in which we're expecting a resolution, so that the AUKN will call the supervisory board within 7 days to do so and that it will be resolved within 2 months. So we just did what we thought would be right. The clearer the message than what the Government has sent is practically impossible. By the way, what's the problem? Basically, the problem is to reject all claims. Just like it's basically a problem to accept all claims. One thing and the other is a problem. In addition, Dars had some legal opinion from a top legal expert who felt that such payments could not be made. After our somewhat lengthy debate, he gave a statement on television, in which he made it very clear that he feels the same way as I do, that each request should be looked at separately. So it is basically that each request, regardless of how many they are, must be looked at in detail or fulfil the conditions to be paid. We've also set a deadline. I don't know if it's too strict. I don't think it can be. But each request will have to be checked separately and easily answered individually. By the way, what's the problem? If we can get into a situation where the courts decide to do so, then it may be more expensive for Dars at some point, especially where he loses if such a situation occurs. Therefore, it makes sense for him to determine for himself what such requests are to be met. I can't say it more clearly than I can say it here in front of you. I said the same thing to the government, I said the same thing to the media, and it's not that I wouldn't want to, it's not that I wouldn't want to, it's not that I don't act, I'm doing what the rules allow me to do right now. Unfortunately, some of the Members who have spoken today are no longer in the Chamber, but they may be listening, and that is all I want to say. Now Mr Jerovšek said that politics did not want to influence the supervisory board. I don't think you need to comment on that. So I think the item itself speaks for itself. I could comment on a lot of other things today, but that's not even the point. The point is, I think I proposed as a minister the right way, this is to deal with every request, and no other prescriptions need to be given. So what you're really asking in this decision is that the government has already uploaded the AUKN or asked the AUKN to then transfer it to Dars. Let us leave aside this corporate-management thing, where Dars, because we all wanted in this country to separate the economy from politics, completely separate from politics. Maybe, it seems here, even too much. On the other hand, we are not saying much about the DDC, which was also very, very involved in this process, which, if nothing else, was a supervisor who had the opportunity, say, to act. But let me just say one more thing. Now I've said a few things to protect subcontractors, but let me say one thing in the opposite direction. So, the fact is that most of the subcontractors' applications came at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. It is also true that some subcontractors of Dars warned already in 2009. When I found out, this fact seemed extremely important to me, so I said that I needed to look back at everything, every request, and see if they were those who met those conditions. With regard to the role of DDC, as I said before – the DDC has always been somewhat shadowy, in that it was even further removed from all these procedures. And because we are now giving him a new role – he will be renamed DRI – we have made him more attached to the government and the ministry, especially because he will spend public funds. He will no longer have a supervisory board, but he will have a special body composed of officials because they will spend state money. On the other hand, Dars, who is becoming a real economic company, who will no longer spend state money, but will build with either his own resources hired, or with business partners, from them, and thus this role has turned into a more independent one. This does not change that we, as owners, have clearly stated what we want in this case. Now, above all, I would like to point out that I, like all of you in this Chamber and probably the subcontractors, want this matter to be resolved. Like I said before, purely from a human point of view. These are the people who have set up their houses, these are the people who have set up their assets that employ a small number of workers, and this is after all, these are the companies where the economy of the Republic of Slovenia is elephants. These are smaller family or medium-sized enterprises, which are, in fact, those that give jobs to many more people in the country than are given by large economic systems. And that is why I have taken this issue seriously and no one is protecting anyone except as Minister in order to protect and fulfil the obligations of those who have these conditions met. Here's the common desire. I don't think this is really about the difference between us. It's just the way we're gonna get there. If anyone has any suggestions, let them give me a suggestion, let them tell me, just come with a proposal. I gave it to you. I gave it to you! My proposal is to resolve each request individually, and the deadline. If anyone has a better proposal to tell me, I'll implement it immediately. Don't just give me, "give me a measure." That doesn't help me. I gave it to someone who I think is essential as a measure to solve this thing. If you have any, come and tell me, and I'll give it to you. So don't just give me a proposal, "come with the action." Of course, the desire to do something sometimes leads to a course that can make mistakes, and I would also like to avoid it. Because it is public funds, because public funds need to be careful. Let us now desire to resolve matters quickly, not to cause problems. The difference between you talking about who you are in the opposition, that you need to do it right now, and between me, it's that I'm responsible, and you're not. That's the small, tiny difference. But I have no problem with that, so I also say and make suggestions on how I think this matter should be resolved. I say that if anyone has any further substantive proposal on how to deal with this, I will be happy to complete this matter. However, as far as the questions you have given me – so we have given us a deadline – I regret to say that I cannot give you an interim report, because as a government, we did not require an interim report because it is a short deadline. However, it will be in very short time — I received a message — a meeting where we will still examine what has been done so far and how things are going. So much for that. If there's any more questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u150	Anybody else want to discuss this? Excuse me? Here you go, Mr. Mag. A visionary as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! What we suggested, I don't know, and that worries me a little. Don't you read the Commission's conclusions on the supervision of public finances? We have dealt with the matter on 1 February this year. You, if I understand correctly, before that. So, a few months ago. We then instructed the Government and, of course, you to approach this issue immediately and we gave you a 15-day deadline to report on it. Of course, we didn't get anything from you after the good old habits. Nothing. Not from the government, not from you. It was more than clear at the time, as you were also present at a meeting, and Dars also said on numerous occasions that this must be done on a case-by-case basis. Yes, of course. I agree with you. Some kind of flat-rate rejection or confirmation is not in place. I agree. But February 1st is a long time ago. It's May 18th. Nothing happened. It didn't happen, Minister, nothing! We sat down a bad week ago with Mrs Duhovnikov and the President of the Dars Supervisory Board, not to mention before we came to the plenary session, we discussed this once again on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in April. Not one claim has been resolved in a few months! Dear Minister, now I ask you – do you think that your invitation or your recipe to solve this problem has been taken seriously anywhere? Do you have information? Look, today's debate has been going on for over two and a half hours. Did you accidentally get information from Dars? Is one claim by subcontractors from the foothills of the motorway resolved? You gave a two-month deadline or even more a month ago. So it should be at least in half. At least half of them should be saved or at least 10. So I'm asking you, how many are saved? Do you know why I'm asking you this? Because I know no one's saved. And the problem is that this administration of Darsa takes a turn at your recommendations, on the recommendations of the Government and on Parliament's recommendations, and this is the problem that we wanted to draw attention to by addressing this point, not even as a plenary session as a commission. That's the problem. The problem is, you don't control these billion-dollar subsystems. That's the problem. And Dars is at this point, just what I'd say, the tip of the iceberg. We have another parastatal company that does the same. And I actually can't imagine an effective government that if it wants to approach solving one such banal problem, it can't solve it. That's why we told you at the agency what we're proposing. This is not my proposal now, this is the Commission's proposal. Get rid of these people, because these people don't do what they should do for the benefit of this country and taxpayers. These people are actually working in an internal clienteleistic range, I don't know who their Godfather is, but don't tell me that it's a coincidence that they've gotten such a good deal that we get SCT payments in an extremely short time before the minimum discount payment deadline, that some subcontractors who have done their jobs fairly get nothing. It can't be a coincidence, it's a prank and it's a girdle that's over you, and that's the problem. And I, as secretary, would really like to ask myself if I still manage the situation of someone exercising here in some connection over and over and over and under and I don't know what else the formal institutions of this country are, that's the problem. These are lobbying, I don't know, in Italy they used to call it the mob, some people call it the mob today. The problem is, people are paying for hard-earned jobs with all these stings. And, Minister, I understand you, and I believe you have taken a very well-intentioned approach to this resolution, but I do not understand you to tolerate inefficiency in solving yours or one normal, only possible case of solving this case. So that you tolerate, for the first time, that people who are responsible – that is, the president of the Darsa administration, the supervisor – are ignoring Parliament, do not come to Parliament to report to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. That's one thing. Another time. Today, when they knew that these points would be addressed, they must have known you should be armed with data. I have previously asked you 10 or 5 specific questions, such very specific questions – how much is solved, what is, what is, why. I thank you for the general general answer, but today we would expect, as Member Rezman warned, some rapporteurs about if someone took seriously what we are doing here. Finally, the inefficiencies of this government, which is also in other areas, economic and so on, are illustrated in such cases that some State subsystems act in their own way regardless of what the government decides or does not conclude or when it concludes. This, I think, I can't imagine it happening in the previous government, believe me. Why? Because the government is responsible for these things and can't be responsible for something that it doesn't control and if it doesn't control, it doesn't rule and if it doesn't rule, it better not. And that's one big problem today, and I think the problem is wider than just paying subcontractors. The problem is therefore broader because we have seen the last time that everyone laughs at the Court of Auditors and their calls for a discharge; it is the same administration and it is likely that there will be even more cases in the future. So I think if you see help in Parliament too, we can do something together here. The first thing I would do is, when you ask what, the government would ask the agency to solve these cases within 14 days, or to solve them, as you gave them, if not, even the agency's leadership. Will you do that, I ask? Are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u152	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please. Then he gets the word, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u153	With some things, I might be able to argue, but I don't know if it makes sense; not because I don't want to, but because I feel like we have to go save things, we don't do philosophies. We've given you a deadline. The Agency, I have to say something else, the agency either thought or estimated that we corporate-management even went longer than the government could, because the shareholders should not directly impose what they should do or what they should not do. You can do this to Partoo, so you can give him direct instructions on what to do through the control council. So, things are a little bit more complicated corporate-management than they seem at first sight. And I would like, above all, to avoid that today we will resolve the matter in such a way, and because I will do something well, and tomorrow you will say, "I, Minister, you know, you have overstepped your authority by doing this." Let me tell you one example: I've been saying a few things here lately because I haven't been in politics in a long time, but I've only learned a few things in this short time. When the strike was announced in Luka Koper, I was informed at 12th that there would be a strike, that the partners had failed to agree on the things that had to do with the strike. And I got in the car, I broke up all my work, and I drove to Luca Koper, and I started talking to the social partners. Now, whether I exceeded my corporate-management powers or not, it's a big question. But I sat with them from two to about 10.30 p.m. – we did not sit together, but we sat together individually, it tells you a lot about how we negotiated – and the next day I got from some journalists the question of what right I went there and prevented the strike. The port of Koper is not a normal company, and one other company that produces a product and sells it and strikes it, but, of course, reduces their sales, is a problem because of this, but for infrastructure companies it is different. If the Luka Koper strike, which some Slovenian companies will not do, because they receive, say, the raw materials "just and time" or something like that. So the matter is a problem, and when some journalists asked me where I'm from, I said, "Would it be your question if today was a strike: Minister, what did you do that would not strike?".. They said, "Yes, but..." And I said, "Then we're done with the but." What I'm trying to say is that in this corporate-management work, you need to find one real healthy measure of how much you can do and how much you can't do and how many regulations restrict and how much you can't do. And I've done as much as we've allowed here, and I've made some statements and maybe we've gone corporate-governmentally also through what we can do, with a desire to convince those who have to do so. And what is that? To look at each request separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u154	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. We've had a lot of interesting thoughts, if I start with where the minister ended up. We have to do what we think is right in life without everyone liking it at any time. And if Slovenian politics is to look at the media and journalists, then we're not good at writing. I'm sure you've done that moment what was necessary and what was right and that's all that counts. I must say that many times I do not normally agree with my opposition colleagues, but this decision they have proposed today is practically impossible to oppose. I mean, it's a little bit like that anecdotes when a friend says to a friend, "my son doesn't have any school, he doesn't know what 500 kilos is, he takes it, he carries it and he runs it." This decision is certainly positive or true. But if this is possible in practice and within the rule of law, there is another problem. I have to say that I know a little bit about these things, like the mayor who ran the project — some 25 million worth of cohesion — and we stopped 10% before the end of the project in such cases. Of course, we have cashed out the guarantee immediately, with this guarantee we will pay the subcontractors, come up with projects of work done and finish the matter. I think that I have also heard the Court of Auditors' comments that this is the only thing that is possible and right, although I must say that at one of the state banks where I came to cash out the guarantee, they convinced me of the different and the opposite, and that it is necessary to talk about the need to take time and so on. We're all running out of time. Even with the thought that Andrei has begun and has recently been very real that we have created sub-systems in this country that we do not control, I agree. Not all of them were ruled by the previous government, nor did they. I hope that, not all of them, but at least for the most part, will be controlled by the next and the next. There's something about these sub-systems in construction, and I'm going to count two more, three more. For example, according to the congregations and in the country, we have created institutions for the protection of cultural heritage as an auxiliary service. There are people, the state over the country, not helpers, not partners of the congregations, but not someone sitting with God, it's someone sitting over God. They don't respect any deadlines, they don't have time, they benefit from education, they benefit from vacations and everything, but they don't answer to the congregations. Another example – Ministry of Environment and Space. For the cleaning plant we built with common cohesion funds, we wait five months for confirmation of the price, five months for confirmation of the price! 100,000 euros will pay the budget instead of what we keep repeating – the cause of the pay – and that is certainly the tragedy of these subsystems and one of them is, I agree with Andrej, also on Dars, and it is also time to say bob beans. If the agency that we have doesn't do its job, it has to be said that we've stumbled, wronged, solved and stopped, and it's a dot. There are times and times when you have to tell the bob. The second part of my discussion – of course, the story of Slovenian construction has two ends, one stick with two ends, and now, unfortunately, both beats. I am sure that I fully agree that in honest business, what you are ordering, should also be paid. It is certainly necessary to pay subcontractors, and it is certainly necessary to pay foreign workers. But you need to know a little bit more, years ago, when this story also came about. The system of Slovenian subcontractors – from the subcontractor to the subcontractor – is a specific feature. In the end, the price is the same as, say, across the border; the work is done, only instead of doing the quality and best, and workers paid and lived in normal human conditions, it is possible twice, three times, four times after 10% of this deal was collected by the organizers of the business. A construction worker in Italy earns from a thousand 200 to a thousand 500 euros, and we may get 500, 600 euros for the same work and live in unbearable conditions. Different commissions were collected by various bosses, subcontractors, etc., people who were digging ditches and building ditches 10, 15 years ago, and now they're bosses. All these years when there was enough money, we allowed it. What's come now? Now the contracting authorities, those who paid our contractor in full, are now pressing us to pay back what the subcontractor owed us. One job getting two payments is hard, that's not true. If a warning was given to Dars before they paid for it, but they didn't do it and consciously went to pay SCT, then we don't have anything to talk about. These people cannot and cannot have opportunities for quality work in Slovenia. But is it a more interesting other story, that joke about two lawyers or three opinions, you know? The contracting authority also pays him that some Slovenian lawyers write that the contracting authority, despite having already paid once, was obliged to pay the subcontractor once again. I'm sorry, but I don't agree with this story and I don't buy it because it doesn't hold a good mind. The story is also like this – all those who now turn to us, to politics, and yell, "Help us, save us, save us all," but they've been on this game for 10 or 15 years! When they called me, when we signed the contracts and when they signed the contract with the main contractor, then no one came to the congregation and said, "Listen, gentlemen, I will sign the contract with him so that you will know". They did it at dinners, at dinners in the family circle, but now that it's wrong, "a municipality, a country and someone else, save, help!".. People have been working for a year, two million jobs on the up, in a good word, without contracts, without a rule of law, and now they're calling on the state to help. When I asked him, "Why did you do this," he said, "at least fifteen years it went by, we lived like peas in a log", and many who came to Slovenia with a bag, with a belly for bread, became a rich man in Slovenia, but now, of course, he is in such business, in bad business practices, and failed in mistrust. And these are our dilemmas and problems, for which it is not only this government that is responsible, but it is responsible to solve them as much as possible; but this is the system story that we inherited. There is a lot of bad in this story, but it may also be good for Slovenia to have one such good, quality construction system, which may not be so vulnerable because of the small number of large companies, but we will have more smaller, quality operators who will do their job properly and, of course, also their employees, employees and subcontractors pay properly. That could be, I'd say, that little light at the end of the tunnel. Otherwise, on the basis of the basic principle and on the test, the rule of law is to say that we are developing a unified system, how we will solve what we can do. However, blame was placed on the part of all, including those subcontractors who worked, without quality legal bases and guarantees, with beautiful eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u156	Mr. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u157	Well, I would like to correct one obvious misinterpretation or one statement by Mr. Saiovic so that the public who listens to us do not give us the wrong impression. Formally – it is not a double payment of one part, it is simply that subcontractors have concluded with the contractor of the contract and that, of course, the contractor has also concluded a contract with the contracting authority and has given a guarantee of good performance to the subcontractor of 10%. Therefore, the employer has a 10% bank guarantee, a bank guarantee as a guarantee for good performance of works and for payments to the subcontractor. Both addresses include this bank guarantee. So, given that the contracting entity has already paid everything – so at least we can conclude from the words of the President of the Board of Directors Dars, the contracting authority Dars has already paid everything by SCT, something even with the discount before and something even as you stated, so that he has paid despite having the documents at his disposal, as demonstrated by subcontractors with the papers and dates of these papers – that is to say that he has paid despite being warned that the SCT has not paid the subcontractors forward is, of course, an unacceptable story on his own. But that doesn't solve the problem of subcontractors. That's why we proposed, and that's why, in fact, the only way to solve this is for Dars to now cash out the guarantee that SCT gave him, and with this money, so SCT money, because, of course, Dars has already paid it, he pays the subcontractors. In doing so, I would like to say that there would not have been a double payment for subcontractors, nor would there have been any damage to Dars or taxpayers, but of course the only correct solution would have been to this problem. And from the discussions with the Darsa administration, it was possible to understand that we could do that, but that no one would force them to do that. And if you ask me about my position – and I probably felt the same way by a member of Mr Rezman's commission – Dars doesn't want to do that because he probably has this guarantee reserved for something else, which will prove to be, and he doesn't want to solve it. And he's giving the ball back to this subcontractor if they're to blame or see for themselves, they're gonna try, I don't know what they're gonna do, but they're gonna do nothing. This is actually a problem and, of course, we call for a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u158	Mr. Minister, you have Excuse me, replica, Mr. Saiovic. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u159	And the explanation of things is wrong. Andrei, I fully agree with this story here. A nice proverb from Slovenia is – It is not only what we tell him the state, what he can do, it is a man’s duty – and Dars should do more in this case. But let me tell you one more example of how we got caught in another loop called a mandatory docket, and we all thought this thing was okay. In one case, we did not want to pay the total amount to the company because one subcontractor appeared in the middle and we wanted to pay it back. What does that mean in this case? It means that, of course, to that company, the first one, because you didn't pay him everything because he didn't pay the subcontractor if he didn't sign the asignature or the cesium, you owe late interest, which is incriminating. We didn't want to wire that money, we were saving it for a subcontractor. But now the story of compulsory settlement has arrived, and you are legally guilty if you do not report the claim you have until then and release it and you have to move on and the story will end. In spite of your good intentions, we have caught ourselves in our own legislative loop for good purpose, and in the mandatory netting, the money will come to whoever did it, earned it, but did not pay subcontractors, and in the practice of this instrument to do something fair, good and right, we do not, and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u160	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u161	I just want to say, because even as a lawyer, I've gone a little bit deeper into the matter, that if it were as simple as you say, Commissioner Visjak, then it would really be profaned not to do it, but it's not that simple. Indeed, each case must be examined individually because the conditions must be met. Now I'm just going to point out that it's going to be perfectly clear what we're talking about. The one who has completely arranged papers and who has done everything as he must has, legally speaking, has no problem. Unfortunately, things didn't go that way in construction. Someone was doing something for someone, he was doing compensation there, he was paying for it with material because he didn't have that cash flow, he paid it here, and it looks like it. It's one of those nets. It's impenetrable. The one with the things arranged will get paid. That's the thing. If it were as simple as you say it would be, then it would be really despicable if it didn't. So it just has to be said that it's not a simple thing. I was explained, shown, or explained to me how these things are done, and judicial practice says that it must be a direct match between individual claims so that you can pay the subcontractor. And I'm saying it again, so I'm saying that every case has to be looked at on its own. It's not just about someone not wanting to, like, cash out guarantees. I think it is necessary to cash the guarantee when you have a duty to pay something — and there is no dilemma at all! But it hasn't been cleared who fulfilled the conditions. I'm more worried about that, and that's why we set this deadline, so we're asking you to look at it on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u162	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the predatory elites must be stopped. Cashing guarantees on Dars is one way to do that. This is for Dars a financial neutral operation, not losing Dars anything, it says, what he gets is transferred to subcontractors. And here to expect the RS Capital Investment Management Agency to take some important step in a short period of time is illustrative. Not even the state-owned management strategies were able to be made within the prescribed time limit, but by law you have substantially extended this period and any extension of the deadlines, including the withdrawal of guarantees, means only the recognition and support of the situation which is in this country and is evident. The clienteleistic connections are fully operational. Money is diverted in ways that are not legal. The government, which supports it and does nothing in this area, is an irresponsible government. If you have managed to resolve Mr Erjavac, you have similarly defended Mr Križanič and now this model is repeated by all those who are interfering in the SD sphere of interest. The SD protected itself by not taking action. Sorry, we should do something here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u164	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u165	There's something I need to say. I tried to show my case how I would have acted in such a case. We were the contracting officer for the Maribor airport. We have cancelled the contract, cashed the guarantee and paid the subcontractors to the contractor because he has not fulfilled his contractual obligations. As soon as we learned that the subcontractors were not paid, we requested a payment from subcontractors. That's what the Ministry of Transport did. For a simple reason, because it's right. I just did that, and with this example of yours, you try to influence others. But as for what you're saying, it's just not true. I always say publicly that institutions need to be respected and that it is easy to act legally, in particular as regards this order. The order is such that the government will come to this, if necessary, in particular. But at this point, if you have alluded to the Court of Auditors, then the Supervisory Board and the AUKN are the ones who have to fulfil their obligation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u166	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe I could add a sentence to what the mag said. A visor. Why not cash in guarantees? In my previous performance, I said that the previous administration in 2009 had cashed out the first SCT bank guarantee; after many years of building the highway cross in 2009 the first bank guarantee! And we probably all agree that there was a lot going on in this construction. Why weren't bank guarantees cashed out? Why do you think? Because it was forbidden! Because a court-martialed bank guarantee can be the basis for putting someone on the blacklist. There's the heart of the problem. As a result, no guarantee was overstated because someone could use it in the following public procurement order, so that the bank guarantee in question, which was cashed, can not participate in the public procurement. Here's the stumbling block of the whole story that things didn't cut when they were supposed to. And now we're talking again about bank guarantees. Why don't they cash in? Who are we afraid of? Or who's afraid of someone? Who's afraid of someone in this country, for God's sake? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u168	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of talk. I will support this decision, no matter what objective possibilities there are for it to fight what we all want together. As far as the Minister is concerned, I believe he did what was possible with regard to the arrangements in the system. He's given time for some things to work out. But interestingly, after one month nothing has happened, and not one of them has been discovered, which would have had all the papers arranged, so I could have gotten my money. Apparently, the Minister's recommendations don't depend. And if we've created systems in this country that don't work, then it's our job to eliminate them as such, or to take away their ability to do things their way, by the way, I'd say, sound logic and intelligence, that the work done must be settled. It is therefore essential to expect at least that bank guarantees will be cashed out and that subcontractors will be paid out as quickly as possible. So that there will be no worse consequences. With regard to the possible line point for those who would cash in their bank guarantees, I must say that it is high time to remove them from the list of those who can get jobs and then treat the operators like for example the SCT, who received the payment for the work done, and the others today cannot go any further. Last but not least, I stand firm in the view that the decisions of the Court of Auditors must be respected, always, not only once, and that, of course, the decisions of the National Assembly or, for example, the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which has decided that any administration or supervisory council at home must be made out of its position, because it has failed to perform its supervisory or management functions in accordance with what we expect of them, and for the area where we have adopted the loan guarantee law, they may burn up in such a way in the failed companies, such as the money to pay for those who have done the highway. In short, I expect that any agency will cease to operate by removing it because we voted here if the president of the Agency's administration thinks he can do what he wants. I'll never agree with that, and my vote on what kind of bank guarantee Darsa, for example, will never again be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u170	Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u171	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We listened to a long debate, we heard numbers. We're talking about abuse, we're talking about alienation, and so on. What citizens should say, 'if you can't do anything here in Parliament', what we're going to do today, maybe we'll take one decision. What we're gonna do with him, I don't know. Dars is, in his own way, symbolizing the state's operation. Abuse protagonists are obviously too high to be reached by the right hand. But at the same time, we're engulfing our citizens. Someone arrives at 80 an hour in front of the toll station, and we know that next month it will be at minimum wage. Look, we're working a line here, a typical case for this country. And every week, there's TV shows, sensations, arrests of responsible people. As we're used to, nothing's gonna happen. However, we have an idea for the audience to see that the country is operating, we are even arresting, and 80% of these complaints are not epilogues anyway. We know that, too. It's some kind of systemic state failure when we don't know who's drinking, who's paying, who's responsible, and what's going on. So a system and a typical example of how this country works. The main road is closed, you'll find yourself side by side, you'll get to the finish line faster, and so on. They also leave the roads; not only the holes we see on the side roads leaves our budget as well, and obviously, if we can't do anything, I don't know, it's some kind of reality show for citizens as it appears.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u172	I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment and the proposal for a decision will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the vote, in three and a half hours, that is at 17.10. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u173	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We are moving on to Article 13 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 13. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 14. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 15, 26 and 52. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to that Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 15 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 15. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 26 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 26. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 31 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 31. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 44 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 44. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 52 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 52. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 61 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 61. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 33. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 63 and decide on the amendment of Article 63 of the Zares Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 26. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposed, in the context of the introductory explanation, that the State assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday 24. 5. 2011, after the end of the vote. The services of the National Assembly will provide an overview of the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We move on to Article 6 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 6. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 14. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the proposal at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Third Review Act prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We're moving on to Article 4. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 6. We decide on the first amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. This is the amendment under point 1. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still in Article 6 and are deciding on the second amendment of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still in Article 6 and are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. This is an amendment under number three. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 4 is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members are present. The vote was 42. Against 24. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, the amendment under number 4 has become irrelevant. We move on to Article 24. We decide on the amendment of Article 24 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 23. Against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the first reading of the bill. Does the minister want to make a procedural proposal? Please, Minister. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u174	Your Honor! Allow the Government, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to propose a third consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the drafter proposes that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. 71 Members and Members are present. There's 71 votes against no one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday 24. 5. 2011 after the final vote. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles adopted by the amendments. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the non-payment of subcontractors in the construction of individual sections of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. 5. 2011. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 31. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision on the non-payment of subcontractors in the construction of individual sections of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes against 31. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
