ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Alenka Jeraj, Renata Brunskole, Mag. Stefan Tessel, mag. Vasja Klavora, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Franco Juri, Villa Trofenik and Janko Weber until 16:00. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on the supplementation of the added value tax in the framework of the emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The basic objective of the bill is to encourage timely payment of invoices and to influence the reduction of late payment between taxpayers. The bill provides support for other measures, particularly those set out in the proposal for a law on the prevention of late payment, but in particular we want to encourage taxpayers to actively act to pay their debts either by paying their bills within contractually agreed deadlines or by participating in the notification of monetary liabilities to the system of compulsory multilateral netting. The bill introduces a measure in time of financial and economic crisis, which could have an impact on improving payment discipline between taxpayers identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia, due to the significant deterioration of payment discipline in Slovenia. The measure foresees that a taxable person who has already implemented VAT deductions on unpaid invoices will have to increase his tax liability in the amount of the VAT deduction previously applied, in a tax period in which, under the law governing the prevention of late payments, delays have occurred. However, if the taxable person has not yet applied the deduction and is late, this deduction shall not apply. When the taxable person pays the invoice to the supplier, he will be able to subsequently enforce the VAT deduction during the tax period during which the invoice is paid. The measure will not apply to invoices entered into the compulsory multilateral netting system by a taxable person, nor to accounts not covered by the law governing the prevention of late payments. Only if the taxable person does not pay within the contractually agreed time limit or does not act to enable his debt to be settled will there be an additional economic obligation, i.e. the calculation of the additional tax liability. In view of the effectiveness of the proposed measure, we propose to establish a worse tax offence in cases where the taxable person does not comply with the law or does not provide data on the increase in the tax liability, the VAT non-imposed and the increase or reduction of the VAT deduction to the supervisory authority, that is, the tax administration. The measure will not apply to accounts issued prior to the entry into force of this Act. In view of the urgency of the action, it is envisaged that the proposed amendments will enter into force immediately or the next day following the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the deadlines followed by the individual debtor in delay, the actual law or measure will take effect some two to three months after the law is in force. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you both support the law in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Bogdan Chapich to present the report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 36th emergency meeting. 2. In 2011, the draft Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for the proposed Act to be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 21st meeting. 2. 2011 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Service made comments on the provisions of Articles 1 and 3 of the draft law. The comment of the service to Article 1 on the ambiguity of the text of the provisions of this Article shall be taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups and the comment to Article 3 of the amendment of the committee referred to below. The proposed law included amendments to Article 1 by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Zares, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. As additional materials, the Committee was also provided with the views of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on the package of intervention laws in the field of payment non-discipline and on the submitted novel. The Chamber recalls, inter alia, that this does not provide for an accelerated VAT return on claims against debtors for whom insolvency proceedings are already under way. It also draws attention to new administrative and financial burdens due to the change in VAT accounting and to the professional question of the acceptability of two concepts of VAT accounting, entry VAT on paid and exit VAT on invoiced invoices. The Chamber foresees that the enforcement of the proposed novelty will also significantly exacerbate the liquidity of export companies. The introduction of a tax deduction for paid invoices alone may mean that companies from the recipients of VAT will actually become net payers. This does not improve the conditions for export-oriented economies. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee, having regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, drew up and adopted the amendment of the Committee to the title of the Chapter by making it a transitional and final provision and amendment of the Committee to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined and adopted until the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In view of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has prepared a report and an updated proposal for a law which forms an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we looked forward to such a law that would follow the objective, which is also stated, to encourage timely payment and to eliminate delays in payments between taxpayers and to address the issue of so-called payment non-discipline. When we received the package of measures that we are considering today, the VAT law is only the first of them, we were disappointed. We have been disappointed because we believe that the Government has taken steps to resolve this problem in a incomplete way, without consulting the economy, and that some solutions are also clearly in conflict with the tax hand. Therefore, only administrative resolution of problems related to payment non-discipline, change in law and some punishment or forced involvement in the accounts is a measure which could probably be one of ten in a series of necessary measures, not the first or the second. We believe that the biggest problem that generates later also payment non-discipline, especially in three ways. The first is that there is not enough money in circulation for the economy, that the credit crunch is still present, that banks fail to service the needs of the economy effectively and that, as a result, many businesses are not even able to meet their obligations. Secondly, an important reason for the situation is the lack of investment in this country, the weakening of labour projects, which would employ the economy, generate new value creation, generate payment flows, and consequently, payment failures would be much less. Thirdly, I miss measures in terms of a more effective enforcement procedure in terms of eliminating certain protections of the debtor in the enforcement procedure, so that the enforcement procedure runs faster, more efficiently and consequently would not encourage debtors to delay and consequently result in payment non-discipline. We don't have any of that on the table today. Today we are dealing only with some bureaucratic way of solving the problem of payment discipline. Now, in the framework of the Value Added Tax Act, we have to deal with solutions which are opposed by the tax profession. The tax profession considers that the solution is incompatible with the directive which Slovenia must respect. The problem is also that the solutions are not coordinated with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, an important part of the economic operators. This law is intended for the economy. It is probably not intended, I hope it is not intended to fill the budget, and if it is intended for the economy, it is in fact incredible that the solution is not in line with the economy. We therefore find it difficult to attach these solutions because the Government has not taken enough time to deal with the matter in a normal manner and thus enable all partners to cooperate. Of course, the government wanted to take a step forward in order to eliminate payment non-discipline. However, the most important government party generates payment indiscipline. The most powerful government party – Social Democrats have not yet settled all the responsibilities of the electoral campaign. They owe, for example, money to the Post Office of Slovenia, although it has long passed. And in fact, those who generate payment indiscipline would now like to solve payment indiscipline. It's about as if I'd let a wolf or a fox guard a hen. Of course, this cannot be done, and that is why there are also such barren solutions that will continue to allow you to do the same. Today we are also reading news that the second government party, Liberal Democracy, is involved in tax problems and so-called "missing trader" business. Your Honor, this way you won't solve the accumulated problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. You're out of time. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Paying non-discipline, cancer of the Slovenian economy can be called. The problem of Slovenian business culture, which erupted at an uncontrollable level during the economic and financial crisis. Paying non-discipline in Slovenia is not a problem of the national economy. This is, according to our assessment, the problem of two or three sectors: construction and partly trade. Here are the basic cores of non-payment. Unfortunately, this isn't about managers not wanting to pay. This is where it became a basic way of not being paid. It is therefore high time that this modern culture, the modern business culture, is limited and changed by force. We do not oppose or oppose the proposed solutions in the Slovenian People's Party. We regret only that we are a little late, that the government has taken too long to prepare solutions to which the economy and all together, even in the opposition, we have been alerting for a long time. There's not a lot of times we've pointed out this problem. In May 2010, the Chamber of Commerce issued 93 requests for craft and entrepreneurship, including the measures that we are considering today. It's been almost a year. The preparation of these proposals was probably also encouraged by the threat of civil disobedience at the Chamber of Commerce. What's the situation right now? We are talking about measures to save the economy from payment non-discipline, but unfortunately these measures were not in line with all the stakeholders, all the chambers representing the Slovenian economy as a whole. On the one hand, we have a Chamber of Commerce which supports these proposals, on the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce, which points out the possible consequences and professional inadequacy of the proposed solutions. We would expect to find so much time when talking, in dialogue with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and also with the Chamber of Commerce, to find solutions that would be good for everyone. Obviously, too little has been done to say that I will not say any analyses to get deeper, why this payment discipline, where the reasons for it are, or whether most of the reasons are that some companies simply do not pay because they do not want to do so are stupid, or whether much of this payment discipline is based primarily on the fact that there is not enough money in circulation. On the basis of this analysis and a larger dialogue with the Chambers, it is likely that it would also be possible to find solutions to which the economy would nominate completely. The Slovenian economy needs to be trusted. This is the starting point. It is true that we have anomalies such and different, which must be solved in every way, but the source must be the confidence of the economy. It is impossible for economic operators to receive no payment for the service provided or for the transaction performed. If you go to the store and buy goods for free, it's called stealing. In the Slovenian economy, this has become some normal stable practice, so I will not say Slovenian economic folklore. And that must be done. In any event, an enforcement procedure would also contribute to the context of resolving payment non-discipline, which would speed up the procedures for resolving objections to enforcement, but that is the same story, but another law. But about this soon, once in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The bill, as has already been said, represents one of the measures to reduce late payment delays, to influence non-payments in business transactions with a view to respecting agreed payment deadlines. Paying discipline is a problem, not a small problem, a major problem in our country. I don't think we can even imagine the consequences of what happens if this balloon does it once. A lot of cases my predecessor said a little earlier. But I have to say, we don't know who else in this country doesn't have to. It is true, however, that some claim that the largest non-payment is the state and the local community, and that neither I nor anyone in our group can agree. I therefore recommend that we listen to the proposals that offer a way out of this abyss, even though they may at first seem inappropriate, ineffective, but not to reject ideas that may eventually prove effective. This problem has been dealt with by the Government in a way that affects the non-payers, in such a way that the debtor has the right to deduct the entry tax only in respect of the invoices paid to its suppliers. Today, the taxable person may also include in the sum of the deduction of the entry tax the amount of the tax on the account which he has not paid at all. This solution will be supported by Members of the DeSUS Group, and at the outset we have also had concerns in the direction of whether this may not affect the right to deduct VAT, which in principle must not be limited. The latter view is also taken from the case-law of the European Union. The opinions of experts are different. Nevertheless, the Members of our Group have decided, and we will also confirm the decision, such as the Government's action. It is now time for action to be activated in the fight against payment non-discipline and not the time for passivity and just breaking what would have happened if it had been. Certainly, though, it is not the time to throw pollen under your feet simply because of some ideological differences or political activism. Members of the DeSUS will support the Government's proposal, as I see it as a measure aimed at improving payment discipline, even if that means forcing debtors, non-payers to meet their own obligations. Somehow this problem needs to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! Paying non-discipline in Slovenia is horrifying, but the worst non-payer is the public administration. It's the country that pays people the least and the ones most. The proposed law or amendments to the law indicate that the government is not at all about raising the liquidity of the economy, but merely to fill the state budget, to fill up the sieve and the sieve through which money flows into the pockets of certain coalition lords, certain tycoons, certain small and large thieves. But that's not gonna get rid of anything. With this amendment of the law, VAT would be collected from the same account twice, from the one who issued the bill and from the one who received the bill if he could not pay it. It's about someone who doesn't or can't, and usually what he doesn't want to pay, he's gonna be punished twice, because he's gonna have to pay that part of the money that the debtor should pay. If we look at the Slovenian economy, we will see that the debtors are huge, that the debtors are large enterprises mainly with state shares. Those subcontractors weren't paying. Sub-contractors are failing, disappearing from the segment of the Slovenian economy, but now, under the new law, those subcontractors, even if they do not receive paid money, will have to pay VAT in advance. The state protects bandits and thieves and beats the head of the man who wants to work. A very strange country and a very strange government that allows it. If the Government had good intentions, the proposal would provide for a simultaneous reduction of the VAT base for the person who issued the invoice. Creditors who do not pay their invoices are further punished by the fact that the VAT amount must be paid despite the unpaid invoice. And in order to be able to pay these VATes, some are already hiring liquidity loans. From where? It's credit to pay for something you'll never get back because he won't pay you, then the state will get what you have. If you take the credit, you'll have to repay the loan, you'll have to repay the interest, because you won't be able to pay the loan, they'll confiscate the company. Debtors who are unable to pay their bills regularly because of their illiquidity would continue to make their situation worse — not only make it worse, but they would be cut off. This amendment of the law increases the possibility of an increase in the number of compulsory settlements and bankruptcys in favour of the wealth of the state treasury. If we're already collecting money for terrible penalties for traffic offences, but at the same time, let's not take care of safety to improve roads and anything else, we'll still be here. Now there's going to be legislation in the area of health, and they're going to hit us on the head there. We get hit on the head with our pensions, we get hit upside down in the head on the day-to-day cost hike, and the state collects money where it can. But the Slovenian people are used to suffering. Cankar wrote that our backs are used and desired. As long as some back is just a used whip, then once it rises up and strikes back, then they fight for their rights. The problem is that the other part of Cankar's sentence is that our back is a whip too. That's what the Slovenians hit. This is because we must obey because we are by nature, most of us, not all, but by most servants, and we are servants at every turn. And we also serve here to the government, which will peel us to the bone, while they and their adults get fatter and have better from day to day. We won't support the marriage. Thank you very much. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, including the audience on the balcony! I must say, however, that at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we think significantly more positively about the Slovenian people, citizens and citizens and we want to move forward well. One of the stories we must therefore solve and prevent is certainly also the resolution of payment discipline. This VAT law, which we are talking about today, is only a fraction of what we could say is a third of a broader story, namely the fight against payment non-discipline, which is not a problem since yesterday, not a problem since the crisis, but in this country the story has been going on for decades. It's three laws. On the one hand, the VAT Act, which we are talking about right now, is followed by the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments and the amendment of the Public Procurement Act is also important, because it will give the money to subcontractors and thus we will also touch on at least some of the problem of payment non-discipline. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are pleased that this package has come and I can say that we were also one of the initiators of this and the stories stem from the development clause and so on. The law brings quite a novelty, in the event that the taxable person does not settle the account within the statutory time limit or the apparently unjustly agreed time limit and does not enter into the compulsory settlement, he will have to increase his tax liability in the amount of the VAT deduction already applied. This will have to be done by the taxable person during the tax period for which the obligation to increase his tax liability has arisen. However, a taxable person may no longer exercise VAT deduction himself during the tax period during which the statutory deadline for payment of the invoice has expired. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support this measure because we believe that the situation in the economy has certainly exceeded all the limits of common sense as regards payment. However, we are a little skeptical, as this once again opens up certain dilemmas about the control and effectiveness of the measure itself, as this time the initiative is also passed on to creditors who will have to play an active role in the recovery of these debts. In the event that creditors themselves have an impact on supervision and regular and effective inspections, we can hope for concrete results. Of course, one of the painful wounds of our society and our system is also the effectiveness of inspection controls. We also have a few reservations at the principle level, because such a measure constitutes a certain deviation from the VAT system, but we believe that in the current situation it is necessary to act in particular quickly, decisively and also at the symbolic level to send a clear signal that we want and will do everything possible to establish a payment discipline in Slovenia, in order to get in the way of successful European countries in this area, because in the society in which we are, the failure to pay the bills, the payment failure is something incomprehensible, the condemnation of a valuable and incomprehensible. And it's clear that if someone ordered something, took an obligation, then it should also be paid. On the other hand, the law also provides for a reward, stimulation, root, as the debtor will be able to enforce the VAT deduction in the tax period in which the account is paid as soon as the obligation is settled. And those sharpest critics and critics of this system are the legal solutions that are now in place, only with those dark critic glasses. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore support the entire package of laws, these and those that follow it, but we must all be aware of the macroeconomic consequences together. And these concern us, for these measures will certainly bring them. However, it is necessary to decide once, cut the matter, cut it down, clean the economy, and introduce fair and responsible practices in order to pay the price and, on the other hand, that someone who does not have the resources does not order the goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We will answer the fundamental question tonight when we either support or oppose this law. Very strong support or very strong rejections before discussions or further arguments on all the laws we are going to discuss today may even be premature. In the Group of Non-Related Members, solidarity cannot be put on either side without consideration, as a number of questions are also raised by countering those who strongly oppose and those who support the proposal for a VAT law and the other proposals that we will discuss. It is undeniable that the Government is responding to economic problems in the financial sector. For some it is undeniable that the response is too late, many will also dry up in the meantime, economic operators, and these measures will not do them any good either. The government responds to the syndrome when it comes not only to payment non-discipline, when it comes not only to inequity, when it comes not only to the growing decline of small businesses, espions and crafts in particular, and when it comes only to job losses, there could be a number of other factors, but it may nevertheless respond to this syndrome through oversimplistic measures. We estimate that these proposals, which are transmitted, are not well thought out, are certainly not overplayed, we do not know such simulations what will happen when, as we say, these measures begin to "take". Surely the support that would be necessary has been lacking, supporting a large part of the profession and a large part of our Slovenian economy. It also seems to us that the government's response is reflective. This reflection is as much as the pressures of one part of the economy and the more intense these threats are. We are not sure that reflexion is the best response, and in particular it would be bad if the government really responded to the threats we all face, and when they are realized, it is likely that they will bring more evil than good for all. More consideration should be given to the following reasons. Firstly, if we take companies that are still holding on to water, which have to pay the raw materials that have to pay the workers and all the taxes to the state and then the financial flow is cut off and the credits remain, which means that their production is additionally burdened with or not even received, and this means even faster decline and drop below the level that we call it still manageable. We also have good companies. These good companies also offset material costs, wages and benefits to the State and, when no payments are made, they must devote accumulation, instead of investing in development, to accelerated development, to a new added value, so that they can start a new production cycle at all. And when that happens twice or three times, then there's no accumulation or good companies anymore. They're starting to dive, too. That is why we consider that not even the main and only problem is this payment discipline, but that there are a whole range of other causes, which we often list and do not show them to repeat, which we are relatively poorly dealing with. And because these bills seem to raise more questions than answers, questions that we have not received the very decisive answers that such an economy poses, as well as cattle, appear in politics, and, of course, the policy repeats what they find in the economy, but it does not matter. It is important that the remaining issues are open and, even if the Government does not intend to fill the state budget, the effects will be more in favour of the country than the economy. That is why we will consider further before giving support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! If Slovenia had not sold its liabilities to business operators for more than five days in 2010, almost EUR 500 million, the source of Apes, would probably not have been too severe. The problem is, as both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise warns, that this amount is much larger and is not recorded in the APIS system, because only what is in recovery is recorded in the dispute. The problem is that payments and cash flows have almost stopped among economic operators and therefore intervention measures are needed. That is why the Government or the National Assembly must take measures to try to eliminate payment indiscipline. The proposed laws to be dealt with today are only part of the financial legislation. It is also necessary to continue to amend legislation in other areas, such as justice, the economy and probably elsewhere. However, changes in legislation will certainly not improve situations unless business morality is improved, at all levels, for all stakeholders within the business system. By means of a proposal for amendments to the value added tax law, the applicant seeks payment non-discipline by prohibiting the application of entry VAT if the VAT liability does not pay the bill within the prescribed time limit as an economic measure of some kind. The draft law provides that a taxable person must increase his tax liability in the amount of a VAT deduction previously applied, if the account does not pay within the prescribed time limit or if he does not declare a cash liability under an unpaid account into a compulsory multilateral netting system established by a proposal for a law on the prevention of late payments. However, when the invoice is paid to the supplier, it will be able to enforce deductible VAT during the tax period during which the invoice is paid. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that this law introduces a new solution with which we wish to penalise the non-payers. I would say more economically, as the tax will also be able to pay the bill. Such a solution has not been known to Slovenia, and an effective measure of regulating payment non-discipline and incentives to improve payment discipline will be penalised by the unused entry VAT. This can be avoided if the debtor takes care of other systems to pay off his debt. On the basis of these amendments to the value added tax law, a measure will be introduced which could, by means of an economic coercion instrument, affect the improvement of payment discipline between taxable persons identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia. However, it is not true, as some say, that this is a measure to fill the budget. In fact, when he pays the bill, he'll be able to pay the tax. An important fact of this law is that it is linked to the law on the prevention of late payments. The measure prohibiting the imposition of VAT rates will not apply to invoices whereby the taxable person declares monetary obligations in the system of compulsory multilateral netting. The measures taken by this government and the National Assembly must be seen as a set of measures that only one amendment to the law — or even more — will not change. In view of all this, because we believe that payment discipline must be effectively resolved, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for amendments to the Value Added Tax Act as part of the measures by which we want to regulate this payment non-discipline.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a bill to prevent delays in payments under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! With the bill before us, we want to combat payment non-discipline in the Republic of Slovenia and represent a bearer measure that is proposed in this legislative package in this area. Payment non-discipline can be defined as non-compliance with amounts, agreed deadlines and means of settlement of obligations. All of this has proved to be a major problem in the current situation of acute economic conditions. The fact that there are market segments where customers in the business are not comparable to economic power makes it even worse to pay for non-disciplined discipline. So it's a segment where it predominates, if I can say a little bit later, a few big players, and a bunch of dependent subcontractors have to accept the necessary conditions that can sometimes be exploitative to survive. In order to mitigate or prevent such obviously unfair arrangements, the proposal for a law provides for the maximum allowed payment deadlines. The text of the proposal before you, which has been finalized at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy meeting, thus provides that the payment deadlines agreed in the contracts concluded between economic operators shall not exceed 120 days. With that measure, we want to prevent payment deadlines that would allow debtors to be credited to creditors and thus jeopardise the normal daily operations of creditors. The bill also provides that public authorities must settle their obligations within thirty days. Let me add that the budget implementation law has already been in force for more than a year, under which direct and indirect budgetary users have to settle their obligations within thirty days. However, the provision made by this law is broader, since, in addition to referring to public authorities and local administrations, it also applies to public economic services, public economic institutions and all other legal entities in which the state or local community has a dominant influence. With these measures, we want to increase the liquidity of creditors. The draft law further prescribes the obligation to enter an obligation for which the debtor is in arrears into the system of compulsory multilateral netting. Despite the fact that the name differs significantly from that regulated by the Bond Code. The most important difference is that the multilateral netting does not require the reciprocity of two monetary claims. In the framework of the multilateral netting, as set out in the proposal for a law, the obligations of debtors that could never have met are thus mutually agreed. The mandatory multilateral netting will thus, in the view of the proposer, reduce the indebtedness of all those involved. The bill further establishes a register of monks who have been protested for non-payment. This register will be made publicly available on the websites of Apes and will represent some kind of blacklist of non-payments. The proposal for a law on the prevention of delays stems from the knowledge that the State must establish a legal regime that encourages debtors to meet their obligations on a regular basis and thus provides creditors with timely payment. As we all know that this task is necessary, as payment discipline is a strong source of trust in contract law and the rule of law and deepens the economic crisis, I hope and propose that you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Čepić for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 36th urgent meeting, on 28. 2. 2011 and beyond 1. 3. In 2011, he considered the proposal for a law on the prevention of late payments submitted by the Government for consideration following an emergency. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text within its powers and in general its work in the first place highlighted the modesty of the explanation of individual solutions resulting in a number of issues. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service, in the framework of a broad opinion, draws attention to the derogation from the rules of civil law in the direction of the escaped rules of conduct in relation to the wide range of the addressee and at the same time gives a number of general and concrete warnings to most of the provisions submitted. Among the qualified candidates are the Coalition's parliamentary groups on 28. 2. The amendments to Articles 4, 5 and 31 and the same day, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled an amendment to Article 26 of the proposal and, in the context of the additional working material, took note of the views and amendments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. In the longer debate following the presentation of the proposal by the representative of the Ministry of Finance and following the presentation of the main points of view of the Legislative and Legal Service, the debaters of the opposition groups, who did not express support in the presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups to the solutions to the legislative proposal, presented a number of concerns about the text in question and addressed several questions at the same time to the representatives of the proposer. In the opinion of the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, this is a general negative direction of that institution against the proposed text, as it is not parallel to the inclusion of the different sectors' argument in terms of size and market or export orientation, which means that the solutions are not consistent with the practice shown and with the requirements of the economic operators to which the proposal relates. In addition, it was stated by the Government's representative, among other concrete clarifications, that in the last days a comprehensive coordination interview was conducted with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and the proposals of interested legal entities were properly assessed and reviewed. In its follow-up to the series of articles, the Committee adopted 32 amendments to the Committee, which were prepared by the Financial Ministry in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service, in order to present individual improvements during the course of its consideration. The discussioners who expressed support for the bill's proposal, however, concluded that it was likely to be a positive segment in an intervention package of financial non-discipline laws, where the envisaged repressive way represented the necessary shift in this area. At the same time, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 4, 5 and 31 of the proposal and did not accept the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26 of the proposal. At the time of the vote on the amendment in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law at the same time. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report which you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said in the previous bill, it is high time to do something about payment discipline or, if you want, non-discipline in Slovenia. Not paying the debt has become a rule for us in some economic sectors. Nothing out of the ordinary, nothing out of the ordinary. However, the other face of payment non-discipline is shown in cases where liquid assets are not really available, as normal measures do not enable our country to solve accumulated social problems, I am thinking mainly of the functioning of the courts and instruments and the measures that are already available but are not being implemented. Since one part of the government does not work because we are witnessing a breakdown of moral and ethical values in all social areas, we are now forced to adopt laws, which are kind of extraordinary or interventional, if you want, as is this one that is now ahead of us. Is the marriage that solved the problem before us? The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia points out that some solutions will increase and do not reduce liquidity, as money could also withdraw from circulation where it is running normally today. However, among the most affected companies should be those that claim more than they owe because they have many old unpaid and irrecoverable claims on debtors who have been or are still market investors or the main operators of the country and the municipalities. So what are we supposed to think? Measures aimed at the economy to improve the payment indiscipline and liquidity of enterprises are assessed by the same economy as measures which will have the opposite effect. Indeed, there is a saying that you cannot afford to keep the wolf, but we do not see any reason why we would not trust the economy on which all Slovenians depend. So we're in a big dilemma. On the one hand, we have a terrible problem with the proposed solution, so on the one hand, many subcontractors who, for their work, do not get paid for this service, which is abnormal, unacceptable, and on the other hand one part of the economy, which is covered by what we call the Economic Chamber, which is critical to everything. Once again, I ask myself, or I have no answer to the question, where is the greatest reason for payment non-discipline? Whether the share where there is not enough money in circulation is greater, or whether there is a large proportion of those who simply do not pay for it because they do not pay and because it has become a culture and behaves irresponsiblely towards their business partners. It is true, however we are turning the matter around, that better solutions than those proposed have not yet been seen and gone at this time. This solution is certainly better than none. We will certainly not oppose this bill in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! When we talk about payment non-discipline, there is no economist who would not have warned us about that. But you get an idea when one part of the economy, the representatives of the economy in some way have concerns about this law. As I mentioned earlier, payment discipline is a major cancer wound to our economy. At the end of 2010, 6000 102 legal entities and 8 000 670 craftsmen and small entrepreneurs had blocked bank accounts. The total amount of tax and judicial executions alone amounted to EUR 487 million. The non-payment wheel is not only a financial disaster but also a major personal tragedy. Independent entrepreneurs guarantee all their personal property. This problem has not been identified in recent years. Absolutely not! It has been present since virtually all independence, and now in the time of economic crisis this issue has been revealed in its entirety and thus has become one of the main problems of the Slovenian economy, Slovenian development. The fact is, a number of companies either settle their obligations with or without much delay. As a result, a number of companies are failing due to liquidity problems. This also affects workers employed in such companies, and this also affects partners and so on. Is the State obliged and competent to enter into a third, private contractual relationship, or is it able to do so at all? The question is in place. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that, in principle, the State is not obliged and is not competent to intervene in such relations until these relations are healthy and until they interfere with the general social well-being until, due to unhealthy, immoral acts, they begin to violate the principles of the rule of law and of the social state. When the latter begins to begin when this leap occurs, action, including forced action, is in place. Is this bill on the prevention of late payments good, or will it do any good, or will it be effective in the fight against payment non-discipline? Some people nod their heads. Members of our Group think and expect that despite the concerns we have, however, it is a step towards reducing the alarmingness of this problem, so we will unanimously support this bill. And also because to this day, a better idea, a concrete measure, an effective solution, including by the biggest critics of this law, simply does not exist. More and more people are living above their capabilities, the failure to pay has become in the minds of many people something completely normal, a national sport someone would say. Once all of us have eradicated this thought in our heads, it will only be possible to begin a real rehabilitation of the non-payment wheel. Without appropriate action, the situation will be as it is or will be worse, so I call on you to contribute your votes to the adoption of this measure. Members of our delegation will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be presented by the winner, Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Article 26 reads as follows: "... with a fine of €100 to €10 000 shall be fined by an economic operator or public body which is not an organ of the Republic of Slovenia or a self-government local community if it violates the obligation of first entering into a multilateral netting system in accordance with Articles 16 and 18 of this Act." Second, "...with a fine of between €50 and €5,000, the responsible person of the economic operator or the responsible person of the public authority who commits the offence referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be punished." We are convinced that the proposaler does not realize that today the majority of debtors are unable to meet their obligations to suppliers because they have outstanding claims on their customers, which are usually large enterprises with a strong market impact. This is in Slovenia and I do not need to explain which companies are. With this bill, the government deepens the inefficiencies of small businesses, as 10,000 euros is a significant burden to a small company and is more familiar with it than to a large company, such as the SCT. In doing so, it should be stressed that many large debtors are in bankruptcy and forced to settle and will not be able to recover their sentences. What's here? Are we just going to close our eyes and let things pass? This is happening, and unfortunately it happens too often. It is also funny to punish responsible persons of small enterprises in the same way as large companies. The responsible public authorities, and this also applies to the responsible persons of the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia or of the self-governing local communities, should be penalised with substantially higher amounts, since these people in the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and in the self-governing local communities do not have private property but have the property of the State or local communities. In this case, we are convinced that the responsible persons of these authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and of the local authorities should be further punished at least by the amount referred to in Article 26(1), which is between EUR 100 and EUR 10 000, since in that paragraph the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-government communities are exempt. We are convinced that the state and its public authorities should set an example for everyone else in the country, not that they are the biggest offenders, and should therefore also be significantly larger for them. The fact is that this law is written quickly and recklessly as before, at least as regards the situation of debtors, most of whom are small businesses, entrepreneurs, espouses and the like, which, due to the delays or failures of large buyers controlling the market, cannot make up for their own obligations. That's what they say. They'll grab the little ones. They'll leave the big ones. I think that this law punishes those who are not actually guilty of not being able to pay their debts, but leaves all those who have caused the inability to pay VAT. I don't think marriage is good, the government could make a good marriage, brag about it for two and a half years, how it thinks, how it works, how it prepares. But whatever we get on the table, it's ready in half, ready for just one segment of the population, and the other segment of the population is left alone. Usually, though, it leaves him in peace to work his way, the very segment of the population that is most responsible for such a state in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Once again, a good-bye to everyone. The bill before us should be seen as part of a package of laws to prevent payment non-discipline and complement each other – especially with the amendment of the VAT law. This is a fundamental law which, with specific provisions, regulates the issue of payment non-discipline and can also be understood to a certain extent as an intervention measure. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we hope or hope that these measures will infect, improve, and that after a period of time administrative measures will no longer be necessary, as their effectiveness and their relevance to the economy are known. However, this law, given the acute situation of payment discipline, represents only a patch to the wound of our bleeding economy. But the health part is the one that suffers the most. The first part of the Act refers to the implementation of certain regulatory frameworks for fair payment periods between economic operators, where it provides for a 60-day period, which may be longer if an agreement is reached and the agreement must be in writing. This also defines the longest period possible, and it is 120 days. An important solution in the law is also to determine what a manifestly unfair agreement means when the costs of recovery and payment of late interest are excluded, when no agreement is reached on written form or when it comes to a period of more than 60 days, etc. In the LDS, we support these solutions, although we point out once again that such administration must be only a short or possibly the medium term measure, since a regulated country with a functioning market and regulated business practice simply cannot afford too much rough intervention. This law is only interpreted as codifying some normal business practice which must be controlled in the first steps, in the event of infringements, as it will only be effective. In time, this must become a normal business practice, which must be self-sustaining for all economic operators encountered in the market. It is important to say, in case of difficulties with payment deadlines, that the operating conditions for the country are in particular exacerbated as public authorities are subject to a fixed payment period not exceeding 30 days. At the same time, it is worth recalling that the law on the implementation of the budget has already set a payment deadline for direct users on day 30 and for indirect users no more than 30 days. Thus, this law only further defines payment deadlines, which we welcome in the LDS Club and also understand as an example of good practice and example for all other entities. Of course, the state and its authorities will also have to stick to this. Secondly, it is equally important and the set of legal solutions relates to the enforcement of a compulsory multilateral netting, where the debtor will have to make a mandatory commitment if he fails to settle the obligation within a specified time limit. The third set of solutions, however, introduces the establishment of a public register of coins protesting non-payment, allowing public publication and the review of non-payments. The law sets up a centralised and computerised register of protested monks, which will allow free and publicly accessible access to the register of non-payers, which we welcome in the LDS Group. The LDS Club will vote in favour of the adoption of the law, because we believe that this is an urgent step towards bridging the problem, but we stress that we will not, as with a magic wand, solve all problems of payment non-discipline. The problems have accumulated for a number of years, without being able to resolve them with a single law, but this law can also reveal the real problems of the Slovenian economy, which is the problem of capital undernutrition and even more important – the great inefficiencies of the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u32	Most of those who discuss the problem of payment non-discipline should not forget to say that it is necessary to think about different laws, i.e. the package or the package, as we like to say. Of course, we are aware of this in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, but it seems to us that it would be bad to overlook that the intervention measures, as we call them, are far from enough, and that at least some of them may have completely different effects from those planned. If we want to move into another society, we will have to address the problems that we call poly-economic, which is, essentially, broader problems, a prerequisite for thinking about how to get into another normal life. Why can we use the concept of normal or abnormal life today? Because these measures appear at least at first sight as an imperative, as a condition that we begin to emerge a little faster than they are, from the economic, economic, financial and social crisis, because whoever does not believe that we are now living abnormally, should look at the social nervousness that we have in the economy, where we can even separate the economy from the size of the economic operators, to look after the political nervousness either here in Parliament or in the government, either among the parties, or after the response of the population to this political nervousness that we are causing. At least the same is nervousness in terms of the decomposition of the social fabric of Slovenian society, and even more such phenomena could be listed as giving us the right to say that this should stop and really start building a normal society. A normal society must also be based on a normal economy. In a place where problems that are crucial today will become something marginal, something that we will be surprised to happen at all, something that will not be a business practice, something that will not be identified by our business and other morality. A normal life would be a life that is morally acceptable for most people, which ensures legal certainty and stability, something that also ensures social security and stability, and which ultimately ensures not only attempts to solve crises with intervention measures, but also sustainable development, something that will be understood as self-evident. Let it become, of course, that we will not be content to survive, but that we will want a different life and prosperity for our community. In doing so, it is unusual to keep repeating a number of figures on average debt days, on the number of those in debt, on the sums of such debts, as if we were dealing with something that hit us yesterday or before yesterday, and on the basis of the initial material of the lawmaker, we are constantly being reminded of the reports of Banka Slovenije or Umar, which are old, and so we should have acted differently from the action now, and such measures would not be such, at least less problematic. And it is unusual that we have not previously responded to a number of warnings that have been sent in writing in previous years to the authorities of various associations, whether it is the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whether it is the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Employers' Association, political entities or, for example, entities within the National Assembly, when the Committee on Economic Affairs dealt with such problems a year and a half or two years ago, those conclusions that we adopted and referred to the Government were more or less reprehensible. That's why it's happening to us, it's perpetuating, and that's why we're not sure that the solutions that are proposed are really the right ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Law on the Prevention of Delays in Payments is a law which, as the predecessors have already said, has the role of intervention law, because payment non-discipline has achieved relationships that are simply no longer manageable with normal enforcement and compliance with the Law on Bond Relations, the Bond Code and other legislation, the Company Act, the Insolvency Act and so on. The fact is that the situation has reached a limit when it is necessary for the state to enter into these relations and to help them sort it out in some way. The multilateral net is already a practice in us, but unfortunately only a voluntary multilateral net. The effects of this voluntary multilateral netting are positive and promising. The introduction of a mandatory multilateral netting by this law is, in fact, merely extending the range of legal persons and natural persons, including public law persons, who will be involved in a multilateral netting and will in fact result in the clearing of mutual claims and liabilities. One of the fundamental grounds for the Government's decision to propose this law in the adoption of the National Assembly is the fact that data on how the payment indiscipline or inability to pay increases may be better said, both for legal persons and for natural persons and for independent entrepreneurs of individuals. Here is the data, for example, from 2008 to 2010, that the number of legal persons who achieved more than a five-day delay in payments increased by more than twice at that time and the outstanding liabilities increased by more than five times. It is said that the volume from just over €80 million to almost €390 million. The same has been true in the past year with entrepreneurs, individuals and small businesses, where commitments have increased twice. In fact, it is very clear that small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are victims of insolvency or of the planned insolvency of large companies. This is about transferring this non-payment to a bunch of small businesses. And here was an increase in the number of non-payments over 5 days from slightly less than 9 thousand to 8 thousand 700. In fact, it is evident that the increase in payment non-discipline is the largest among large companies and thus the largest non-payers. In our view, the law itself has a significant positive orientation in that, on the basis of determining what the maximum payment deadlines are, including those laid down in written contracts, 60 days is the general time-limit between economic operators and 120 days at contractual borders, and on this basis a time-limit may be set when applications for multilateral netting must be made. We are confident that within two to three months of the entry into force of the law, it will be detected whether this mandatory multi-member net is positive or not. We believe that it will produce positive results and that we will achieve a better cash flow, where banks can also be involved by providing fresh funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u36	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I have already stressed my position on the previous law, and here I agree with some of the predecessors that this is a patch on the first major wound. The problem is that this patch is still too small or smaller than the entire wound, which means that its effect is likely to be zero. I would therefore like to point out in the opening that the Government is on the rise, the most pressing problem of the Slovenian economy with completely inappropriate measures, measures that may have a minor positive impact, but will not get in the way if they do not prevent the issue of payment discipline in this country. We have a number of reasons to think so. A few reasons were offered by the Chamber of Commerce, which opposes this law and has the view that the mandatory multi-party netting will do more harm than good to reduce the most radical cause of payment non-discipline, that is liquidity in the Slovenian economy. In fact, non-paymentary discipline does not occur in most cases, because between two economic operators where there is enough work and where there is enough money, there is no payment because someone does not want to pay. Paying non-discipline is mainly due to a lack of money in circulation and, of course, to a lack of work. I can give you examples of large construction companies applying for tenders at extremely low prices, the dumped prices, when they were not excluded during the procurement phase, and they should have been followed up and applied for the tender only because they had some cash flow and they did not pay subcontractors. A typical case is SCT, a typical case is the port of the highway, a typical case is also Opera here at our building. In this case, the main contractors were received by the State which is now proposing these laws, the payment, although they did not pay the subcontractors and the subcontractors warned of this and the State would be obliged to pay the subcontractors instead of paying the main contractor. But because it was SCT, because it was some dedicated in this country and because it was some payers, such as Dars or Mrs Duhovnikova, who was obviously in certain special relations with these companies, these payments took place despite the legislation. And now you are promising yourself from this legislation that something will be better. He won't! Until this country's thinking changes and this connection between contracting and paying and operators, of course, will not be better. The country has a key cause here as a mercenary. A country with 10 billion budgets, about 35 billion gross domestic product in that country, and if we count all other state-owned companies, we affect about 50% of all cash flows in that country. So the country, the Republic of Slovenia, with municipalities and with state companies, is running money around this country and across the economy and first to make order with its own. That is why you do not need laws, but just one culture of behaviour in favour of the economy, but not in favour of those dedicated to this economy, such as a few individuals who have unfortunately failed huge construction companies. Here's what I think solves all the problems. With everything I've told you, it intersects at last with this cancer wound we call a credit spasm. Once they can get healthy companies for healthy projects enough money, then there will be no problem. But the criterion of what is a healthy business and what is a healthy project is now quite different in times of economic and financial crisis, as was the case in 2007 and 2008 – under the same rules of banks, with almost the same authorities. Therefore, we feel that this experiment, despite good intentions, is weak, ineffective. Plus, it says here that the contract deadline will be 60 days. He won't if they agree otherwise. The penalty for non-compliance is EUR 100 for a legal person and 50 for a legal person. A smile to solve a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the urgent procedure. Before continuing, I would like to remind you that we have just found that the Committee's report to this point has turned out to be the last page. A new report will come to the bench as soon as possible. The entire report is published in Lotus Notes. We apologize for this technical error. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I am giving it to a representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Capital Investment Management Act entered into force last May. In the practice of implementing the law, certain difficulties have been identified mainly in the adoption of strategic documents on the basis of which the Capital Investment Management Agency operates. The adoption of a capital investment strategy due to the complexity of the topic and a longer time frame for the preparation of sectoral policies has not yet taken place, and therefore a transitional period should be re-organized to enable the Agency to carry out its tasks at the time of adoption of the strategy and to carry out any necessary procedures for the acquisition and disposal of capital investments. The competent ministries should forward sectoral policies to the agencies in accordance with the proposal for a law by 30 April this year. On this basis, the Agency shall draw up a proposal for a strategy and forward it to the Government for adoption and the Government shall submit a proposal for a strategy to the National Assembly by 30 June of this year at the latest. However, in order to facilitate the availability of investments during the transitional period, it is stipulated that the Government may propose to amend the 2010 and 2011 Regulation on the sales programme of state-owned assets until the adoption of the strategic documents. Until the adoption of the strategic documents, the Agency may acquire capital investments if funds are made available in the budget and obtain prior agreement from the Government. In addition to this key amendment, the law also responds to certain uncertainties in the acquisition and exercise of powers by the Agency. Let me just mention the most important. Due to the importance of the Code of Management of Capital Investment Companies, the amendment sets out the mandatory agreement of the Government to the Code and the operation in contravention of the Code as a reason for the early termination of the term of office of the members of the Agency's bodies. In practice, it has been shown that we are not always sufficiently informed about the possibilities that, together with persons with whom the Republic of Slovenia operates in accordance with the law governing the takeover, we could cross the threshold. Therefore, the amendment lays down the obligation of related persons to inform the State of changes in individual investments. The same applies to the Agency in relation to persons with whom the Republic of Slovenia is associated or with whom we act in a coordinated manner. An obligation has been added for the Agency's Council to give its approval to manage or dispose of investments worth at least EUR 5 million. Since the annual management plan is adopted by the Government, it is appropriate for the Government to also decide on the adoption of the report on the implementation of the annual plan and to inform the National Assembly thereof. However, the National Assembly is not bound by the Government's decision, the Government's opinion is only helping it to assess the quality of the Agency's work and the exercise of the powers it has in this regard. In the original text, the draft amendment also provided for exceptions to certain capital investments which would not be appropriate to be managed by the Agency. This is an investment whose acquisition does not reflect the implementation of the State's investment policy but has other purposes, such as the State's capital participation in international institutions, such as the IMF and similar. In particular, the field of investment in risky investments and investments that the State makes in the tax or judicial enforcement proceedings or in the enforcement of criminal sanctions or in succession proceedings is also specific. The specificity of the management of these investments can be regulated in sectoral laws or in this law, which, however, is a statutory law for managing the country's capital investments. 3. Article 3 of the draft amendment, which regulated these exceptions, unfortunately did not receive the necessary support on the working body and is therefore excluded from the amended text of the law. As shown above, the adoption of the proposed amendment is essential for the smooth management of the country's capital investments during the transitional period until the adoption of the strategic documents and beyond. Taking into account the above, I propose that you both support the amendment in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Bogdan Čepić, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall hold its 36th emergency meeting. 3. In 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, after examining the text, commented on the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12 and 13 of the proposal. The comments of the service shall be taken into account in the amendments adopted by the four coalition groups to Articles 4, 5, 7, 11, 12 and 13 and in the amendments adopted by the Committee to Articles 8 and 13. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Economy, the representative from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It follows from the introduction of the presentation of the articles as an accompanying explanation of the text that the proposal in question regulates the way capital investments are managed during the transitional period until the adoption of the first strategy in accordance with the law. It is a matter of determining the cooperation of the RS Government with the newly established capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia in deciding on major Slovenian capital investments, so that the main text solutions enable greater operationality and functionality of the Agency. In the debate on individual proposed solutions and amendments tabled, the Committee's attention was focused on the decisions of Article 3 of the proposal, which interferes with Article 11 of the basic text. Among other things, the representative of the Ministry of Finance stressed the provision of Article 3 which provides for exceptions which other authorities of the Republic of Slovenia continue to make. The directive on the liberalisation of the European market was further laid down in respect of the harmonisation of the provision under consideration by the Minister for Economic Affairs in respect of sectoral directives, whereby, as a result of the establishment of competition, there is a compulsory ownership or management separation of undertakings providing transmission services from those producing and trading electricity and gas. Thus, a comprehensive solution represents only the involvement of two different bodies in this field. In fact, it is a matter of meeting the basic work of the so-called third energy package and therefore the separation of production or the commercial part of the energy sector is necessary. The Board of Government's non-acceptance solution has not adopted Article 3 nor has it adopted any upgrades submitted. The intended substance of that provision shall, however, partly summarise the adoption of the amendment of the Committee to Article 8 of the proposal. In the opinion of the discussers, the appropriate solutions to the problem identified would not be necessarily part of the energy law, but it is primarily appropriate to examine in detail the requirements of the directive under discussion, which the committee was not particularly aware of, and to adopt a strategy for the management of state assets in this economic segment. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has identified the amendments already tabled and has adopted those amendments by the four coalition groups, by making the amendment to Article 3 irrelevant as a result of the non-admission of the article below, and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats, DeSUS and LDS to Article 3, paragraph 1, of the proposal, which has become irrelevant for the same reason. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft law and adopted all articles other than Article 3 of the text submitted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report and which you have received, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. At the beginning of last year, when we adopted this basic capital investment management law, we listened to very high flying words, and ambitions were extremely high. The main arguments were, inter alia, that the greatest disadvantage of the current system is the excessive fragmentation of government investment management across different ministries, conflicts of interest, lack of transparency, inefficiencies, and finally in inefficiencies in governance, that these investments should be considered as part of a feudal property within individual ministries. The capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to ensure that state capital investments are managed best. In this way, the desired objectives, in particular efficiency, transparency, accountability, also predictability, and last but not least separation from the various policy impacts, should be achieved. At that time it was said that we need a new corporate governance policy for state-owned enterprises because we need to establish a new corporate culture, because we are responsible for this property and because these state-owned companies have too important development potential for the whole country to allow things as we have seen in the past. Such a measure should be necessary in order to link the impact of policy and many stakeholders on the management of enterprises, which must follow the interest in the nobility of state property, on the one hand, and on the other, to pursue other strategic interests of the country where, due to the strategic importance of the individual undertaking for the country, particularly in the banking and financial sector, energy and transport, this is important. If there is no corporate policy, and this is important from the experience of Slovenia in the past period, state-owned enterprises will become preys and victims of every time political ambition, if not political ambitions, but certainly different stakeholders and lobbyist groups. And so on. You could say first-class satire. What did we actually get or change with this agency? It still doesn't work the way it's supposed to. You may even be able to establish it by the end of your term of office. From the very beginning, it received the greatest criticism from some representatives of the coalition itself. The investment management strategy should have been in place for two months now, but this time we are prolonging the preparation of this strategy. You said: the agency's independence from politics, the current government and more. It has not yet begun to function, but with the proposed solutions you are tying it to the government in one way or another. Some want to loosen it because they find that they don't have all the levers in their hands. What am I trying to say? In my opinion, it's all one larifari and it's from the very beginning, which clearly shows today, confusion of responsibility and confusion of fog. We will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! The purpose of the Capital Investment Management Act adopted last April is to ensure the economic and transparent management of state-owned companies in accordance with the principles of efficiency, transparency of responsibility and predictability, which also means the withdrawal of the State from the current management of companies and the entrustment of this mission to an independent and independent agency. It is intended to implement this mission on the basis of three basic acts, such as a strategy, an annual capital investment management plan and a management code. The Basic Law provides for the Agency to prepare a report on the implementation of the Annual Capital Investment Management Plan for the previous year and to submit it to the Government and the National Assembly. Within a few months of the law, the Agency itself has managed to establish itself, but it has been stuck in the implementation of the law, since the Agency cannot operate without a strategy which, as the main instrument of capital investment management, is an essential basis for the work of the Agency. The proposal for this novel in the first place corrects the situation created by the absence of key documents, which are at all the basis for the Agency's operation, so that the deadlines for the preparation of sectoral policies prepared by the Ministry and the strategy are extended. Given that the formal agency was set up in October 2010 and that the strategy is a demanding document, it is understandable that the time in which it is to be prepared should be extended. The deadline for the preparation of the annual report on the implementation of the Annual Capital Investment Management Plan is also extended as it is linked to the final accounts of companies and the content of the annual report is more precisely specified. Amendments to the law also refer to a management code to which the Government will have to give its consent after the amendment. The latter makes sense because it is a document that is the basis for managing state property. It is right that the Government gives its consent to this act, since the Government is ultimately the one representing the State or Republic of Slovenia which owns the capital shares of individual companies – that is, the owner of the state property in these companies. As a result, we believe that her autonomy and independence will not diminish. Otherwise, this amendment only affects the law with a few urgent amendments to those provisions of the law that have proved difficult or impossible to implement in practice. These changes that we are considering today mean that the mission to which the Agency is called will be able to carry out at all and that the work of the Agency will be effective, which is, of course, crucial, as it has or manages state property. All proposals for solutions, according to the proposaler, represent a greater operationality and functionality of the agency, which we agree with in the DeSUS Group of Members. With regard to the issue of the implementation of investments that would not go to the Agency’s management – in particular with regard to capital investments in companies that carry out the public service of the system operator’s activities in the field of electricity and gas transmission and distribution – we have taken the view in our Group that it is meaningful to examine the directive further and to reflect on this issue in the new energy law. This is particularly because, as Minister Radičeva herself says, it is a matter of professional concern and that we should not rush into the door-to-door with the implementation of the EU Directive, which is not in such a hurry that the story of the abolition of mandatory agencies cannot possibly be repeated, we need to be careful and very careful about adopting an internal legal order. In the Group of Members, we will support the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Already the basic law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia has been written "shampast". This is evidenced by the amendments in Article 1 of the Amendment and Supplements Act, and already here shows that the basic text of the law has been written poorly and unprofessionally and also some of the following articles correct expression. The law was written quickly, thus burdening the work of the National Assembly. This also shows an improved relationship between the current government and capital investment management, which is a major asset of the country. If we go only to Article 7, which says that Article 26 is amended, the Agency shall draw up an annual report and so on by 31 May each year. But what's interesting? When it says that it is submitted to the Government and the National Assembly and the sentence for the past year, "The Government decides to adopt the annual report, which it shall inform the National Assembly. The Agency shall publish the annual report publicly on its websites." The 31 May deadline is, of course, reasonable, but it is a twofold and very dangerous last sentence, which I have quoted as saying that the Government decides to adopt. After this sentence, it may be explained that only the Government decides to adopt the annual report. So far, it has been decided by the National Assembly. And this also shows how to quickly adopt legislation the Government adopts, but thus assumes the powers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 8 also states that the text of Article 27 is amended and a new paragraph is added. This is not only about the government's agreement to acquire an investment, as further explained in the interpretation of the amendments, but also about providing additional budgetary resources for the purchase of unplanned investments. And as it is possible to understand this second paragraph, the government acquires capital investments and then transfers them to the management of the agency. This certainly means that the Government can buy capital investments, so this should be spent on additional budgetary resources. By adopting these amendments to the law, the National Assembly will give the Government a green light for such work. I am saying that he will give because I am sure that this supplement will be adopted, despite the fact that we will vote against it in the Slovenian National Party. It is also interesting to note in Article 10 where it says, "equity over capital investment must not be passed on to the buyer before payment of the entire purchase of capital investment sales". This should have been written long ago in the basic law, but not by amending the basic law in some of the most important starting points. Article 12 speaks of the Agency, namely the ministries responsible for the preparation of sectoral policies, to submit these policies to the Agency no later than then and if the ministries do not submit policies to the Agency, to prepare the Agency a proposal for a strategy based on adopted sectoral policies and to submit it to the Government for adoption. The government is already in breach of Article 41 of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has not submitted any strategy by the end of 2010. By proposing amendments to the law, the Government places the failure to comply with its case on the Agency. And given that this is a huge asset, the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government for not producing the strategy is very great. Perhaps it would make sense to think about interpreting the President of the Government, even though it makes no sense, for let the gentleman be completely buried with his coalition until the next elections, and let him remain there. However, the question arises as to what has been done in this area and which of the ministries responsible for the preparation of sectoral policies has already been submitted to the Agency. I don't think so. If the capital investment management strategy is difficult, the government should already know when it adopts the law. It would be nice if we knew that. Unfortunately, they still do not seem to understand what they want, except to cover up some of the odd transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! The proposal for a new law on capital investment management almost one year after it was adopted in the National Assembly is experiencing a first change and complementarity, which I would say is quite logical and normal, given that we are entering a new area that has not been regulated so far. It follows from the legal text itself that the main amendment is the extension of the time limit for the submission of the capital investment management strategy to the National Assembly which adopts this strategy. We have already been informed from the media that major complications and difficulties have arisen in the acquisition or in general in the development of sectoral policies to be drawn up by individual ministries. These policies were not prepared for different reasons, this is a fact, and therefore it was impossible to draw up a strategy. The law therefore provides in the transitional provisions that sectoral policies should be developed by the end of April 2011 and the strategy itself in the National Assembly by June 2011. However, in the Liberal Democracy Club as part of the legislative branch of power, we must point out that, in this way, it is prescribed to lay down deadlines in a manner that is extremely problematic if we express ourselves quite nicely. The executive branch of the government, its ministries, and the agency itself, which acts as a state agency but is an independent agency, must take responsibility for such a complication and the work we are witnessing. The Government, on the other hand, is a collective body and has been preparing the original law, so it should probably have been more realistic by the time it was sent into the procedure and had already foreseen a longer period of time. In this context, this moment does not really matter whose individual responsibility it is, since it is certainly distributed across a wider range of entities. But despite these principled concerns, the new law also brings some good, meaningful corrections. Among other things, the Agency must prepare an annual report on the implementation of the Annual Capital Investment Management Plan and submit it to the Government and then to the National Assembly. It is also appropriate and supportive to provide that business entities operating in a coordinated manner with the Republic of Slovenia must inform the Capital Investment Management Agency at least three working days before capital investment is acquired, where this would result in an obligation to take over the offer. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia also warns, we have also done so on the committee, on line 3 of the amendment of the law, which amended article 11 of the original law. This is a complication, which has also received quite a bit of media attention in recent days, because in our view it is not acceptable that a little less than one year ago, when we decided on the concept of an independent agency, we again interfere with its essence, in its core. One year ago, we decided to centralise capital investment management with a simple objective and purpose to achieve the principle of transparency, predictability and economy. If we believe in this concept, then there is absolutely no doubt who is making investments. But if we don't believe this, then it's definitely in place to consider shutting down the agency. At the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, we therefore find it particularly worrying that we have as many as two diametrically opposite professional opinions. In view of the fact that capital investments in companies operating the public service of the system operator in the field of electricity and gas transmission and distribution remain in the management of the agency, in accordance with the legal order of the European Union or not. We don't want to be in the Liberal Democracy Club and we won't be a judge, and we don't care about controversy. At this point in time, we would like to believe, above all, that the model of an independent professional agency is in line with the strategy and that it is centrally making capital investments, that this system and model is adequate and correct, and we will support the law. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, President, I'm late.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be moved by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u50	The social turbulence that we are experiencing certainly requires reactions from both the government and the national council, demanding the preparation of laws, other regulations to order solutions, including interventional ones, but it is likely that one of the weaknesses that is definitive and which would suggest that it should be eliminated is overtaken. It is too often that we get to make decisions and then we decide too quickly on such rules, which have not been well thought out, which require immediate recasting, and that is certainly not good. In particular, we should not accept this as normal and normal. This law, the Capital Investment Agency Act, is also one of those that was adopted somewhat quickly. Applicants themselves today find that it has been prepared in such a way that it is not operationally possible to implement it in order to be unable to function, as it was supposed to be an unpredictable problem, although they were probably predictable and therefore we have a demand for rapid amendment before us. The law or agency is, in effect, a new life, a new one. The controversy around this agency was triggered when it was proposed to establish it, either as evidence of politicisation, or as evidence of unrealistic ambitions, as well as any other evidence. Controversy and dust were raised later on in the first decisions, and in some cases, say, humane competition disputes. Controversy has also aroused some of the Government's ambitions to limit the competences of those involved in these two key bodies of the Agency. The law was adopted with shortcomings at the time of some kind of emergency, and it has already been mentioned today that it was essential to centralise these fragmented investments, which were sometimes so guided that they had very opposite effects. It was necessary when this was accepted, also because there was a bright option behind the entry into the OECD. Today we may already know that some ambitions and assessments were exaggerated at the time. It was imperative that something change in this area, because at six billion investments there are no returns and it is relatively bad for the country not to use any more critical expression. This law, as has already been established several times today, has been poorly prepared by the state authorities, so that there are no sectoral policies, no annual plans and no strategy. Such miscalculations, when something has to be done and it has to be written down in law, are pointless errors because, in a better opinion, with less haste and so on, the general of the implementation of such a law would be completely out of the question. These delays are unnecessary or are completely unrealistic. The measures proposed by the Government are, however, measures that are likely necessary to avoid perpetuating the errors, the weaknesses identified. For this reason, the Group of Non-Aligned Members will also support the proposal of this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and coworkers of the secretary of state! The proposed amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia were caused by certain difficulties, as the Government did not prepare sectoral policies within the time limit, which would form the basis for the Capital Investment Management Strategy. I believe that there are some objective reasons for this, as the new agency was set up and started to work later than originally planned by the law itself. For this reason, we have also set out in the law when sectoral policies should be transmitted to the Capital Investment Management Agency to prepare a strategy for managing these capital investments. In this way, we have put more emphasis on the responsibility and commitment of both ministries and governments to prepare and submit these sectoral policies and then to the National Assembly by the end of June. The designation of the Capital Investment Management Agency as the State-owned capital investment management body was necessary as the past has shown the need to change the way government assets are managed poorly and ineffectively. The investment management system so far is characterised by the fact that there has been a large fragmentation of investment management across different ministries, where sectoral policy and governance ownership have been developed, resulting in conflicts of interest, intransparency, inefficiencies between individual investment managers, inefficient and insufficient professional management and complex decision-making procedures. We want to end this with the Capital Investment Management Agency. Of course, the Agency cannot fully operate until there is a capital investment management strategy and an annual management plan. Therefore, during the transitional period until adoption, the Agency should be allowed to acquire and dispose of capital investments. Due to the complexity of the country's strategic documents, the deadline for their preparation and adoption may be extended. Since the strategy is necessary for the work of the Agency, the competent ministries of the Agency must forward sectoral policy up to 30. 4. 2011. The Agency shall draw up a proposal for a strategy based on adopted sectoral policies and forward it to the Government for adoption. The Government must submit a proposal for a strategy to the National Assembly by 30 June 2011 at the latest. Given that the National Assembly will decide on the capital investment strategy, this will be the first Parliament to decide on strategic investments for direct state assets and indirect assets of the country in Kad and the Court. The complexity of implementing the European Directive into our legal system is unnecessary. Time for implementation of the European Directive is possible until 2013. Until then, we need to adopt a strategy and probably some other sectoral policy or some other systemic law. As many understand the energy directive, I think that we are already implementing it in large part in Slovenia, namely, we have separated producers, sellers and distribution. At least there's electricity and gas. There's probably somewhere else we can work out. The question is whether we have taken into account the fact that the same people do not sit in the supervisory boards of different societies in this area and this may constitute a violation of both the directive and the interests that arise within it. This, of course, can also be done without transferring the management of this area back to the government or the individual ministry. This can certainly be fully resolved within the Capital Investment Management Agency. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Investment Management Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u54	Dear fellows and fellows, all the others present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we opposed the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act six months ago and we are also opposed to this novel today. The law was adopted at the time by a relatively long procedure, and I think that there was also a public presentation of opinions, so it is not possible to say that there was no time for the solutions contained in it to be considered. It is more apparent, even with this novelty today, that this law was not about what has been declared, that it has not followed the objectives of effective economic management of capital investments and that it has not followed the ambition of management to withdraw from the governing policy or not so much from the ruling policy as from the individual interest lobby that operates in this policy. This latest complication with this novel points to exactly that. The government family of individual lobbyists within the framework of the Social Democrats and Zares once again argued at a point called energy, and the result is that they did not vote on this paper's third article on the home committee. In the parliamentary group, we drew attention to this at the beginning of the meeting when we suggested that this novel should be considered on a regular basis, and you can see that our concerns or doubts as to whether this novel was at all necessary were justified, since the essential part of this novel was precisely this third article, which is now drawn from this novel. These threats by Minister of Economy Darje Radic also speak of the fact that the reallocation of the interest of individual lobbyists in this country is extremely strong and that the ruling politicians are not concerned with working as effectively as possible for individual ministers, which is why they are appointed to their ministerial positions, but only for what part of the influence in which someone will have due to some other interests that have no connection with the efficient management and management of capital investments. If you want cases, there's quite a few. Over the past six months, we have witnessed quite a number of times that we expected the Agency to take care of a section of inefficient management and management. One example we had at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances several times, the Dars case, where it was found that neither cost-effectiveness, nor efficiency, or even more, was found to be causing great damage by way of management and that the administration doing so could no longer enjoy confidence. What happened? Nothing happened. The Administration shall continue to operate, the Supervisory Board shall continue to operate, while the management and management of this state-owned enterprise shall not take place as well as the good masters would expect. On the other hand, you have another case where the obvious leadership in this society, I am talking about the Post of Slovenia, is not compatible with the ruling policy, where they have been working for a year to abolish the Director of Hauc. Slovenia's post office is one of the few companies that operates on profits, and has realised over EUR 20 million in profits. This profit was realized despite the fact that the largest government party – Social Democrats – owe something to the former campaign for local elections. But he needs to be put down as hard as he can. Members of the Supervisory Board are changing, once the LDS once indeed, now it is obvious that Mr. Zares has been given the task of executing. It is not an inefficient, non-economic management, it is a distribution of feuds to choose positions that do not have any connection with efficiency and economy. Virtually all state-owned enterprises where you have set up your staff over the last two years and this will not be changed by the agency for the efficient management of capital investments, as this is not the case, are drowning in huge losses. The largest state bank over 200 million euros, Luka Koper losses, HIT, gambling, loss, telecommunications losses. There are red numbers everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, not the novelty, nor the law on the capital investment management agency can change these relationships unless you realize once that the personnel that are supposed to operate in these companies are not yours and not ours, but are only capable or incompetent. And no new law can do that. And as long as there is no awareness of this, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not intend to support such a law, nor any novelty, but we do not intend to participate in disputes over this in the government family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of Mr Franci Kek is indeed to be presented by Mr Kek. [[He's not here.]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Two amendments were tabled to the draft law, namely Articles 7 and 13. The first amendment to Article 7 was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the second to Article 13 by the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Of course, Mrs State Secretary may also address the debate if she wishes to discuss it. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I think that the amendment is useful because it sets a deadline for the Government to report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the annual capital investment management plan. The Article is inconclusive to this extent that it does not really know when Parliament is informed at all. I think it needs to be faster. However, I also fully agree with some Members that Parliament should also decide on the report. I think that this amendment is an upgrade to the existing solution and that it is also a Parliament that plays a key role in the adoption of the budget, which is also part of the management of the country's capital investments, so we need to be informed in the course of the previous year if we want to make a competent decision on the way forward and therefore have to be relatively short-term. Allow me to touch some other things that I think are very connected, and the articles are not open and therefore we were unable to table amendments. Article 6, paragraph 6, lays down the powers of the Board of the Agency. The last part of this article also speaks of the Board of the Agency deciding on the assembly material and giving its consent to this decision in the Capital Investment Assembly. I think that this provision is totally ineffective in practice and one large glass to some possible functioning of the Agency. The capital investment management agency has over a hundred investments, which is at least 150 to 250 assemblies per year and, with regard to each vote at each assembly, is expected to give the Agency's Council its consent to the representative of the Agency at the assembly. I can't imagine how this is going to go, how this is going to be operational. I am even less aware of the case when there will be counter-proposals at the Assembly, where ad hoc decisions should be made on how to vote. Will then, I don't know, be interrupted, but will the Agency's representative at a certain assembly be given the Agency's Council's consent? In fact, I am asking the representative of the Ministry how they are operationally presenting the implementation of this provision so that the Council of the Agency will give its consent to the decision-making at the meeting of the Agency's representatives. That's one thing. However, the very important thing is also related to this conflict, which opened up in relation to the exclusion of electricity distribution companies from the system operator of the distribution network, Geoplina and Eles from the agency's management back to the Ministry of Economy. I am afraid that the Minister has not once presented an argument as to why the directives would require this transposition. Perhaps the directive requires this for Eles in 2013, and in no way will this problem solve the transfer of competences, for example, for Geoplin. In Geoplin, they are integrated into one company managed by the Capital Investment Agency, i.e. one company is an integrated undertaking operating the pipeline network while trading in gas. If this company is transferred from the agency to the Ministry or Kad or to the Court of Justice, they will still have both functions in one company, so I really do not know who has failed the Minister so much that the directive is the basis for this company to return under the auspices of the Ministry of Economy. I hope, let's just say the Geoplin case, which is so clear that it can't be clearer for anyone who can count to three, so the Minister may rightly ask himself whether the respected Janez Copač has failed, as Mr Gardener has failed in those unfortunate guarantees, and he had to leave the Directorate. And last but not least, I ask her whether Mr Kopač, who has realized that Geoplin must go back, will be relieved of that. Distribution is the same problem. There is no need for the distribution company and it does not fall under the directive at all. And I publicly ask the Minister, on the basis of which article the directive states that this must be done by law under urgent procedure or by any other law under regular procedure. I am afraid that again this is the fact that she probably did not read these directives herself and believed her co-workers, but the old story repeats itself. Your Honor, the amendment to Article 7 I read is a step towards improving this text.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak, I did not interrupt you in your debate because it is useful to clarify something else, not just question 7 of Article 7, but you know that the amendment was exclusively bound to set the deadline for Article 7. Mrs. Vraničarova has asked for the floor. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment to Article 7, we do not object to setting a deadline within which the Government submits a report on the implementation of the annual plan to the National Assembly. However, since the Agency submits this report to the Government by 31 May and takes into account the Government's Rules of Procedure, which require a normal government procedure of 15 to 20 days, we estimate that 10 to 15 days would be relatively small for a detailed substantive review of the Agency's report and the preparation of the position. At the same time, bearing in mind that the argument Mr Vizjak raised that before deciding on the next budget, a report on work in the previous year should be known, I estimate that it would be appropriate to forward the report and the opinion of the Government on the report to the National Assembly by 30 July, i.e. one month longer. I also assess, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and parliamentary holidays, that this would not in any way reject or shorten the procedure in the National Assembly itself. As far as the rest of Mr Visionak's remarks are concerned, I would like to mention that the Agency's Board's powers relate to capital investments worth more than EUR 5 million. And in these cases, we assess that it is appropriate for the representative of the agency that will participate in the assembly to obtain the Council’s agreement on the proposals for decisions to be advocated by the Assembly itself. Those of you who have been familiar with the procedure by which the representatives of the State have performed in the congregations so far will be able to draw anorology. In the past, the government has been the one that defined the rights or manoeuvres of the representatives of the State to vote in the Assembly and given the changed decision-making structure, we believe that it is right that, in the case of major investments, these are defined as investments worth EUR 5 million or more, not only the representatives of the agency who will participate in the Assembly, but also receive an appropriate mandate from the Council of the Agency. We estimate that the operational implementation of this procedure alone will not be more difficult in any way than it was in the case of the power to act in the assemblies given by the Government. With regard to the questions addressed by the Member to the Minister, it is likely best that they be addressed in the context of the questions sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u60	As I would like Parliament to be informed only in due time, I announce the amendment to Article 7 in the spirit of the Secretary of State's recommendation to replace June 30 with July 31. This means that the government then has two months to study and to take decisions on this report. That's one thing. I think that's procedurally possible. Second thing. The last indent of Article 6 is at least unclear. It is now unclear to understand that this limit of five million also refers to decisions concerning the exercise of voting rights. This may refer to all or only these. That's one dimension of the problem, but it's not the key. The key problem is that, of course, when the government adopted the voting instructions in the assemblies, it only accepted this for those investments that were directly under the responsibility of the Ministry. These were significantly less than now under the responsibility of the Agency, as the agencies have taken on a lot of investment, including capital companies and Slovenian compensation companies. I believe that it is also ineffective how, in the case of counter-proposals and also some kind of distrust of the Council of the Agency or not to the Council of the Agency, but to those who manage the Agency. If they are not competent enough to make a credible decision in the assemblies and one of the Agency’s globes hangs there, there will be at least a conflict of interest between the administration and between the Agency’s Council purely in management matters. This also gives the Board of Agencies a number of management powers. Okay, if you think that's right, it seems to me that you'll also make quite a problem of the purely operational nature of the agency, which no one wants. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, can I understand that you have already communicated the amendment orally? However, I would like to ask because you can only notify him officially until the end of the debate on this article to be considered as an investment. Please give it to me in writing later so we can take it into account. Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I assess this amendment, I think it makes sense, and given the debate between the representatives of the ministry and the proposers, I also think that the deadline, supplemented by an additional month, is also logical, as explained by the Ministry's representative. But I would like to draw attention to another point: Why does it seem important to me that this date is also in this marriage? For one simple reason. Because when we adopted this law, we pursued a series of goals and by this law we actually wanted to transfer the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia to a body that will respond with its independence to the quality of managing these investments from different, as has been said several times before, the interests of those who would like to influence the design of these strategies. I therefore think that this deadline, in what way the National Assembly will consider the report on the implementation of these strategies and the annual plan in the National Assembly, is very important. In order not to be the case, as we heard yesterday, that the reports on the supervision of security and intelligence services are being dealt with in 2011 for 2009, when a number of events have already passed, some corrections could be made from the report and conclusions. However, I myself wanted to comment – given that, Mr Vice-President, you have also allowed this comment to the predecessors concerning other content – also the provision of a law relating to Article 12, which speaks in the first paragraph of exactly what has not been done so far. This means that in the National Assembly we should consider the capital investment management strategy as early as last year. And that was not done, and from my point of view it is bad, because it throws at least two open questions into the framework of this. First, whether we do not have or have not set these dates so that this work could not be done – in both cases this is bad, but of course the worst thing would be that these strategies are not due to other interests, to be managed by these capital investments in a way that then raises certain suspicions. Of course, I think the reason may be in the assessment that we wanted to adopt this strategy as soon as possible and that there was much work to be done in the ministries, although I believe that this date would have been set by 31. 12. that this should be submitted to the National Assembly, justified and that these strategies should be. Of course, speaking now of the text of the first sentence of Article 12, which speaks of individual ministries being required to prepare and to submit these sectoral policies to the agency, and in the second sentence we say "if this does not happen..." It is very difficult for me to understand that in one sentence we write down that by law we are imposing some activity that someone has to do something, and in the second sentence we write that if this does not happen, this will be regulated — yes, if ministries are not responsible for the transposition of sectoral policies within the prescribed time limit, the agency will draw up a proposal for a strategy based on the sectoral policies adopted. Of course, I hope that this will be done by the end of April 2011 from all ministries and that we will not be in a position to have a weak sectoral policy strategy in place in the Government, because from this point of view I think this will be bad. And I hope that the evaluation within the Government will now be carried out through all sectoral policies, that this will be done by 30 April, and that the Agency will be able to draw up a comprehensive strategy addressed by the Government and then submitted to the National Assembly. For all the other messages would once again raise doubts as to whether any of these other objectives would be the basis for not having specific strategies. That is why I also feel that the National Assembly is considering an annual report, which we will then tie to some deadline that should be reasonable, so that the Agency and the Government can do their work properly and thus submit, for example, annual reports to the National Assembly in order to hold a comprehensive and thorough debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Article 7, procedurally? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today we have in the National Assembly a day when the state is being saved. We are considering four laws under the urgent procedure to remedy the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, and today there is no Prime Minister of the Government, although he is justifiably absent, but neither is the Minister of the Ministry nor the Ministers of the Anti-Crist Group. I think that addressing such important laws without the key representatives of the executive branch is somehow inappropriate, a poor signal of how we deal with these matters. I would expect the Minister to be present here today and not to be "painted" here only after we have voted on the amendments and proposals of the laws. This is not right for members of the National Assembly, this is not right for the National Assembly, this is not right for citizens. If we deal with such fateful cases and laws as are on the agenda today, with reasons to prevent and eliminate such consequences, then I would expect those who are most responsible for these matters to represent them. And it seems increasingly inappropriate for these matters to be transferred through a delegated system to a lower level of the executive branch and those who should actually be here to argue, to represent, but at other, obviously even more important meetings and meetings, such as this in the National Assembly, where we are dealing with, we are actually accepting those most sensitive changes in the laws needed to improve payment discipline in order to improve the order of public procurement in order to regulate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u65	Mr Tanko, limit yourself to the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, I propose that you make sure that ministers are also present at the work of the National Assembly, at least in such important matters as these urgent anti-crisis measures. [[...]] And the Minister of Finance or other members of the anti-crisis group are those who should be here today defending the government's bill, and there are not many interests among government Members. Clearly, this morning's case with the Patria Commission of Inquiry has also been strongly influenced by the coalition Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko. You have exceeded the content that a procedural proposal is supposed to have. The Government has properly presented its representatives, who will be represented in these laws, and the right of representation is also vested in the Minister, the Secretary of State, who is present at all times. We do not have a notification as to what is the reason for the absence of the Minister, but certainly as to the reason why there is no existence. And please, your assessment of where the reasons for absence are not correct. Formally, however, all conditions are met, including by the Government for normal work. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it with article 7? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party Group. Mr. Žerjav wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In short, I would like to draw attention to the new practice introduced through Article 13 in the transitional and final provisions of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. This anomaly was also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. And to make the matter more clear, this second paragraph, which we propose to delete, will also be read. In the second and third paragraphs of Article 5 – but not the capital investment management law, but the law on the provision of air navigation services, the Official Gazette and so on – the word "government" is replaced by the word "founder" in all directions. The second sentence of the third paragraph is deleted. This means that the Capital Investment Management Act, when adopted today, amends the Law on the provision of navigation services, its content. It is a matter of great irregularity and, as the Legal and Legal Service says, an intervention into legal certainty. I would add that it is legal or, if you like, marriage swamps if we continue to do so. We can't and we can't! And so far it has not been a practice, at least I don't know about it, to change the content of another law in one law. It is true that some part of a marriage, as I would say, cancels some part of another marriage. But we're changing another marriage in one marriage, and I don't know if that's what happened. And it's a dangerous practice and it's not good. And there's no reason to do that. If the law on the provision of air navigation services needs to change this — let us change it in this law! Send him into the national assembly procedure and these two words will simply be replaced. Indeed, those who want to read the law on the provision of navigation services will certainly not read this law on the management of capital investments. We can't do this. That's not a good practice. I suggest that this second paragraph be deleted and that in the next steps you come into the procedure of the Navigation Services Act and that this matter is corrected and regulated there. There's no reason to change that in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Vraničnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Amendment 5 of the Act on the provision of air navigation services, which is proposed to be deleted, is substantively and formally linked to the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Capital Investment Management Act. This first paragraph of Article 13 deletes the second sentence of Article 4(1) of the Act on the provision of air navigation services and establishes a single or firm providing air navigation services provides that the Agency shall exercise the rights of the founder of that company. There is no reason for this company, which provides for air navigation control, to provide for its management in a different way. If we maintain the first paragraph of Article 13 and delete the second paragraph of Article 13 of the proposed amendment, we will find the internal non-compliance of the Air Navigation Services Act. We do not want to achieve this or we want clarity, which is why we propose both the first and second paragraphs of Article 13. It can certainly be agreed that this is a solution that is not very common with the nomotechnic guidelines, but is not used for the first time or only once. Oftentimes, one law interferes with other regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u72	It's not about clarity in any case. We just have to agree with that. We have had exactly the same treatment of the value added tax law and the law on the prevention of late payments today. These two marriages are also related. Here the amendments to individual articles are linked in one way or another. Is it true? It's true because they're tied to each other! Similarly, the Navigation Services Act could be amended in this case. Really no problem, but we wouldn't need this intertwining and connecting with one marriage to another. That's not normal, and that's not good. It's not good! And I don't know how the Law-Legal Service can even allow this to happen to you or how this can happen to you, Mr Vice-President. It can't be. We can't change the content of another law in one law. It's impossible! Really. These practices, tell me another practice when we did this. I know, Mrs. Breda Pecan, it bothers you to point out mistakes, but that's not normal! Really. It's not about content. No one interferes with the content. We warn only that such a way is not good. I know you're not going to take it because you're going as a bulldozer, but we're just increasing. We already have too many laws, too many regulations, too many acts, etc., which are unclear, which are God's help, now with such actions that we will change one article and one word in another law, make matters even more complicated than they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I, Mr. Žerjav, agree substantively with you, but I cannot agree that this kind of mistreatment has never taken place in the National Assembly. I don't know, but we both remember that, unfortunately, it's been a while. Otherwise, I agree with you: changing another law in one law that regulates this other substance – at least it is not technically nice and misleading people, because then no one can really know what it is and where it is settled, but unfortunately I have to formally tell you that there have been cases and that your finding that it has never been, in my conduct, has never been true. Mrs. Pecan asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must disappoint you, Mr. Zerjav. I have a very similar opinion, as you have shown in this amendment, by linking it with the interpretation given by the Secretary of State. In fact, this amendment of yours should delete the entire article if you want to be consistent. That's one. Secondly, I would like to read to you, for example, because this is more my area, the unofficially refined text of the Environmental Protection Act, which has been made on the basis of recent amendments to the Environmental Protection Act and is being referred to, therefore, this unofficially refined text, with the exception of previous amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, includes further amendments to the Meteorological Act, the Spatial Planning Act 2007, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Community Financing Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Spatial Planning Act 2009 and four or five amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Similarly, if you look at the official and unofficially refined texts of legislation, you will see that this is a habit – I think it is a mistake, but perhaps the Vice-President will remember that I have already talked to him about it in the previous term, because I have to say that I was learning nomotechnics and legislative procedures from 1992 to 1996. That's when we didn't do it. I remember that well. That's when we didn't do it. In the attempt of such acts from one law to another law, the law-law service said: stop, this is not right. Then what happened after 1996, I don't know. However, I know that in these two mandates, which I am once again a Member, this is very often the case. One law changes the articles. The only thing I'd say here as a discharge is that this is not a matter of substantive change. Because a substantive change would be, for my understanding, at least if we were to interfere with the definition of the activities of these — as they are already called — navigation services; if we were to interfere with what this company, which regulates air navigation services, is doing, but not, who is actually the one who performs the founder's tasks. I can say that I would be happy to support this amendment of yours, so that it should be extended. It should be an amendment that deletes whole Article 13. Here I must say that if we want to be consistent, then we must be consistent to the end. What does this mean for the agency itself? I don't think there would be any great tragedy, but then we have to deal with this issue consistently with every change in any law or any new law, because then we have to change those laws at the same time when we're going to have to do a little more than we're doing now. [[...]] A little or a lot more. So I have to say I'm not smart what to do. For this reason, I would say that I am likely to adapt to the majority and I am likely to vote against this amendment. But there's something else I'd like to say about earlier discussions. I apologize, Vice President. I'll use the practice of others. In fact, I would just like to say that this agency is not a hub of human resources for predominance in the economic space in Slovenia, and that it is not true, it is not true that we will be putting in management personnel, that the agency will be putting management personnel in line with the principle: only that it is ours, it does not matter what it knows. As has been said here behind the pay phone. Because if we were to follow this principle, then we should remember what happened to Luca Koper, Intereuropa, Istrabenz, Laški and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u75	I will not say that very famous Slovenian proverb. But we know that kindness is an orphan. But it's okay. Maybe we've cleared up a question, just please stop using it and start talking about everything else. Mr Rado Likar took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. Regardless of the formal possibility that it is possible for another to change in one marriage, but I think it is wrong because it blurs or creates impossibility. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the advice of the Legislative and Legal Service, if we are already formalists, that in the third paragraph of Article 5 of the Navigation Services Act there is no word "government" and that is why this replacement cannot be implemented. Now, if we're that formal, I might ask you about that explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 13 and the amendment? Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u78	Maybe just a sentence. As I was taught, it is not so bad if a paragraph or sentence in another law is deleted that this is not so wrong from a nomological point of view. But if the text changes, the content is bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I no longer see the desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate on Article 13 and the amendment. There were no other amendments. The amendments tabled will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the public procurement law is an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! The previous novelties of the Public Procurement Act and of the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services fields regulated direct payment to subcontractors as a contracting entity's obligation in 2010. In view of the vortex of these provisions of the law, by which the legislator sought to reduce the payment indiscipline and remedy other shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law, as well as in order to prevent the abuse of the provisions of the law with a view to unduly prolonging the procurement procedures, the Government has submitted a new proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which is before you today. Under the current law, direct payments are compulsory only for the first round of subcontractors; in practice, suppliers have reported as subcontractors their subsidiaries or undertakings to which they are linked. Sub-contractors who actually carried out the public contract were consequently excluded from direct payments. With a view to abolishing this anomaly, Article 26 of the Law provides for an exception to direct payments, namely that economic operators considered to be persons associated with the main contractor shall be excluded from compulsory direct payments and that direct payments shall be made instead to their operators who are actual subcontractors. In order to ensure effective legal protection, a more detailed examination of the successful tenderer of the tenders submitted in the procurement procedure shall be made by allowing it to have an insight into the tenders at least three days before the expiry of the period for the enforcement of legal protection. As a result of changes in the law on legal protection in procurement procedures, the obligation to take account of the period of standstill also changes and is more precisely regulated. The contracting authority will no longer have to take account of the periods of standstill in the case of the award of individual contracts under the framework agreement or in the dynamic purchasing system, which means that these orders will be awarded faster and more effectively. With a view to rationalising the procurement procedure, the possibility of modifying the contracting authority’s decision to award the contract is reinstated by law. The contracting authority may, after taking a decision on the award of the contract, find that when verifying the most favourable offer, it has overlooked or misunderstood a certain fact and has subsequently taken the wrong decision. However, the new decision is, of course, subject to the right of legal protection by the tenderers. Additional reasons shall be laid down for allowing the contracting authority to withdraw from the conclusion of the contract despite the decision on the award of the contract. These reasons are, where it finds that there is a possibility that the content of the contract is a consequence of a criminal offence or that, following the decision to award the contract, exceptional circumstances have arisen that the contracting authority could not have foreseen or affected them and that the conclusion of the contract with the successful tenderer makes no sense because it would not have been able to fulfil its contractual obligations. Newly, contracting authorities will be required to provide for non-payment of taxes and social security contributions as a mandatory exclusion clause. So far, this has been just an option condition, so the possibility is not an obligation. The law also allows contracting entities to invite the selected tenderer to disclose their ownership links. Taking into account the news presented by the proposed law, the Government estimates that the proposed solutions to the law will be able to achieve the objectives and objectives that I stated at the beginning of my presentation. I propose to the National Assembly that the draft law in the supplementary text, as drafted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, be confirmed in both second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 36th urgent meeting, on 28 February, the Committee addressed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on Articles 2, 7, 8, 18, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33 and 37 of the proposal. The amendments were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups: the Zares Group, Ambassador Vila Trophynik, also himself, Member Radovan Žerjav. The Committee also received proposals for amendments prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The Committee also received views and suggestions from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry as additional material. In the context of the additional explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that most of the comments made by the service were not taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the proposals for amendments to the Committee. In this context, it highlighted a central comment on Article 2 which amends or builds on the definition of a subcontractor. The debate first raised the question of why the Government did not add to the legislative process the new law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services, as it did in the event of the last amendment to the current law, for example. In the context of the debate on Article 9, in order to eliminate the professional examination of the public procurement introduced by the last amendment of the law and the amendment tabled by Ambassador William Trophynik proposing the maintenance of this examination or the certificate of management and decision-making in the procurement process, support was expressed for such a proposal by the Board. In doing so, it was pointed out that the solutions provided for in the second paragraph of the amendment, which lays down the conditions for the renewal of the certificate until the meeting of the National Assembly, should be further examined. In the context of the debate on Article 18 and the amendment tabled by Mr Radovan Žerjav, on the basis of which the contracting authority is to exclude a candidate or tenderer from the procurement procedure who has already been forced to settle, bankruptcy, liquidation, or those tenderers whose owners and directors have in the past been subjected to bankruptcy or forcible settlement by a company, the representative of the proposed law has pointed out the very strict restrictions envisaged by the amendment under consideration. The Committee expressed its support for the intention of the amendment tabled and also adopted it. In view of the Government’s position, this article had to be completed by this meeting of the National Assembly, and this has also happened. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 26, 29 and 32, 33 and 34. As part of the definition of the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled and the amendment of the Delegation Group was indeed withdrawn at the 9th meeting of the Committee. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. The error resulting from the preparation of this text in Article 33(1) shall be corrected by correcting the report of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u83	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franc Jurša will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye again! Today, we are looking at the last draft of the amendment of the law contained in the package of intervention laws to reduce payment non-discipline. With this proposal, the Government wants to prevent some of the practices that it has detected since the adoption of last year's amendment to the current law and are aimed at the abuse of legal provisions. The proposed law amends the definition of the subcontractor, since, under the current law, direct payments are compulsory only for the first round of subcontractors and, consequently, subcontractors were excluded from direct payments as subcontractors. Under the new arrangement, the related undertakings will be considered as a unit together with the main contractor and only the following entities will have subcontracting status. Among other things, it is more precisely regulated to have an eye on the tender submitted in the tendering procedure and to be more precisely regulated by the obligation to take account of the period of standstill. In order to rationalise the procurement procedure, the possibility of modifying the contracting authority’s decision to award the contract is reinstated and additional reasons are set out for allowing the contracting authority to withdraw from the contract in spite of the legal decision to award the contract. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that this whole package of measures to prevent payment discipline or non-discipline, as well as the proposal for a new law on public procurement, will succeed in its purpose, so we will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. For the last time, a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a new law on public procurement includes quite a few changes, and it is certainly the most important change in the definition of who qualifys as subcontractor in the execution of public contracts. As we are already well aware, the main contractors have set up a number of subsidiaries, which were then reported as subcontractors in the contract, in order to play legislation governing the direct payments of subcontractors. This law makes it more clear, however, that the subcontractor is not considered to be a company associated with the successful tenderer. The law thus abolishes the circuit, where their suppliers or contractors will be considered as subcontractors instead of subsidiaries. However, which are related undertakings, is defined by law, which states that companies are related, if one company has a majority stake in another and or if one company is dependent on another, that is to say, a subsidiary or a parent company, or if companies are a company, or if the latter is the last option, if the two companies are reciprocally engaged or if the companies are linked to an enterprise contract. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support and welcome this solution, although we, too, have already found it difficult to prevent this kind of work from happening again and again, as different laws are being played. The main problem in this country, in our view, lies in business culture and proper supervision and in particular effective sanctioning. However, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we expect that we have closed at least one – obviously very popular – way to play legislation and thus the consequent damage to real subcontractors, who, as the last in the chain, are also the most vulnerable and in this crisis that has affected Slovenian construction, are certainly short-lived. In addition to this most important amendment, various improvements are also made to the law, such as the provision that the entire documentation of the awarded public contract, after it has been awarded, has become public if, of course, it does not contain the business secrets or classified information referred to in this Article. In this way, other tenderers shall be given access to the tenders of competitors, with the possibility for tenderers to obtain a copy of the document under review. Furthermore, after a thorough examination of the House of Representatives, we also welcome the provision of Article 17 of the Law Amendment, which provides that the Government may prescribe for individual procurement cases that contracting entities must also take into account social, ethical or environmental aspects in procurement procedures and the way in which these aspects are incorporated into the subject matter of public procurement; inter alia, technical specifications, conditions for determining the ability of the tenderer, criteria for selecting the most favourable tender and establishing contracts for the execution of the contract. It also seems right for us to resolve the provision on the possibility of withdrawing from the conclusion of a contract, which provides that this can be done if it is found that there is a possibility that the content of the contract itself is a consequence of a criminal offence, or if, following the decision to award a contract, exceptional circumstances have arisen which the contracting authority itself could not foresee are even less likely to affect them. Therefore, the conclusion of a contract with the successful tenderer is, of course, irrelevant because it will not be able to meet the contractual obligations in practice. Let me get this straight. As we assess that the solutions are appropriate and will certainly help to improve procurement procedures in practice, we will unanimously support the proposal to amend the law in the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u88	It seems to us that if the proposal to supplement and amend the Capital Investment Management Act was a proposal for a law to remedy errors, that something similar could happen to this law, the Public Procurement Act, 2C, although it aims at fully legitimate objectives: eliminating the weakness of the previous law or the applicable law, improving payment discipline, preventing further deterioration of societies and bad cities and certain other legitimate objectives, however, the whole range of flaws also seems to be linked to this bill. I'll try to list some of them, even though I'm sure I can't do it all. The first mistake that we think is a mistake and it keeps repeating itself is the mistake that this path has also been under-attracted by the professional and other interested public, because according to our data, therefore, according to the data that the Group of Non-Aligned Members has, it is not necessary that this is all possible information, that no one has been involved in the preparation of this law except the two authorities. The two who cooperated were the Ministry of Transport and the Public Procurement Agency, but there are a number of other interested parties, who would probably have something to point out and know what to point out, but they did not have this possibility. Another error in our judgment, and this too is often repeated, is the main disregard for the comments of the Legal and Legal Service, which is also mentioned in the report and which is usually paid negatively. We feel that this professional behavior that this service has should be taken into account more closely when adopting laws. The third major error is the failure to take account of some of the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and I only mention their protests regarding the unresolved problem of unjustified rejection of situations relating to the definition of subcontractors, because not only their comments but also the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service to others. With regard to the issue of sub-contractor replacement and the possibility of direct payments and the problem of the liability of contracting entities when withdrawing from contracts, because this is also not without material and other consequences for those who are tenderers. Today, the problem has already been mentioned whether the law on public procurement in the water, energy and postal sectors will also be amended, as it is also a matter of public procurement, and whether, even today, it has been discussed, it is permissible to foresee these same consequences in the law cited or to require an amendment there. An additional problem is the problem of the application of the unimplemented terminology provided for in the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, but this law has not yet been adopted and this terminology and the question of what would have happened if that law had not been adopted in such a dictatorship as is envisaged. A further problem is the training of those who decide in procurement procedures. The problem that is being posed is the problem of public authority and thus the targeting of training resources to certain entities that will receive this rather than the training provided by experts who have ministries of their own kind who are preparing such legislation and who would probably be able to provide the necessary knowledge. The problem that remains is the cheapest and most favourable offer and decision-making in this regard, because from history and practice we know that this is actually a problem and that it is constantly being pointed out, but it is repeated. A new problem that opens up or an additional problem that opens up is the problem of discretionary decision-making, which is that requirement for additional justification, which will be considered to be an extra time and will therefore be unjustifiable, and an additional problem of wrongdoing, because malicious investment will have to be regarded as malicious and now such investment is not defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all the employees of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! Given the extent of the consequences of payment non-discipline and the situation in the Slovenian economy, it is necessary to act quickly in this area to prevent the difficult consequences for the functioning of the State and, of course, also for public finances. The adoption of amendments to the Public Procurement Act is therefore essential. The most important amendment to the Public Procurement Act concerns the determination of payments for subcontractors who are, in fact, subcontractors and not subsidiaries or some subsidiary. This will also help to reduce payment non-discipline. By implementing the latest amendments and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, compulsory direct payments of subcontractors were introduced with a view to regulating payment non-discipline in public procurement by subcontractors. However, there is a need for shortcomings in the implementation of these provisions due to abuse and the bypassing of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, by which we want to reduce payment non-discipline in order to redefine the definition of subcontractor. In view of the fact that direct payments are only mandatory for the first round of subcontractors under the law, the subcontractors as subcontractors reported their subsidiaries or undertakings to which the capital is linked, the subcontractors who actually carried out the contract were consequently excluded from direct payments. I should like to remind you, for example, of the large and medium-sized construction companies that have set up subsidiaries and have been prevented from paying off actual subcontractors. Let us hope that this amendment to the law on public procurement will prevent this abuse if it does not completely prevent it. With a view to ensuring effective legal protection, it is more precisely regulated to have an eye on the tender submitted in the procurement procedure by allowing it to be inspected at least three days before the expiry of the time limit for the enforcement of legal protection. As a result of changes in the law on legal protection in procurement procedures, the obligation to take account of the period of standstill also changes and is more precisely regulated. The contracting authority will no longer have to take into account the period of standing in the event of the award of an individual contract under a framework agreement or in a dynamic purchasing system, which means that these orders will be awarded faster and more effectively. In order to rationalise the procurement procedure, the possibility of modifying the contracting authority’s decision to award the contracting authority is reinstated by law. The contracting authority may, after taking the decision to award the contract, find that when verifying the most favourable offer, it has overlooked or misunderstood a certain fact and has subsequently taken the wrong decision; the new decision replacing the previous offer may be subject to legal protection by the tenderers. I appreciate that an important amendment to the law has also arisen with the amendment of the MEP, Mr Žerev. Today’s amendment makes it easier to determine who should not take part in the invitation to tender or be expelled. It is simply intended that public procurement financed by public finances is not addressed by those who have now or in the past brought the company into bankruptcy or insolvency and thus have actually caused social damage. I would also like to stress in particular the provisions which define those who run public tenders. This is a matter of responsibility and competence, and we have also followed the demands of both chambers that want to be conducted professionally and properly. It shall also specify the additional reasons why the contracting authority may derogate from the conclusion of the contract in spite of a legal decision on the award of the contract, provided that it finds that there is a possibility that the content of the contract is a consequence of a criminal offence or that, following a decision on the award of the contract, exceptional circumstances have arisen which the contracting authority could not foresee or affect and the conclusion of a contract with the successful tenderer makes no sense, which it will not be able to fulfil the contractual obligations. As an essential amendment to this Act, it is necessary to reiterate the amendment to the definition of a subcontractor. On the basis of this amendment, it will be impossible to duplicate the provisions of the current Public Procurement Act and provide for greater financial discipline in the implementation of public procurement. Of course, nothing will go without morale inside of it. It is that this law has an even greater impact on the conscience of all those involved in these proceedings. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support amendments to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone! The new law on public procurement is part of the package of intervention laws to reduce payment non-discipline prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The problem of payment non-discipline has not occurred since yesterday, nor has it occurred during the economic and financial crisis, only with greater intensity has it taken place on a day-to-day basis. Therefore, our first point is that these laws should not be adopted on an urgent basis, but, as has also been shown by the debate on the financial period, on a regular basis. Although, according to the proposaler, the new law eliminates the shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. Due to the vortex of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, by which the legislator seeks to reduce payment non-discipline, the definition of the subcontractor changes. More specifically, it provides for an overview of the choice of tenders submitted in the procurement procedure. Once again, the possibility of modifying the contracting authority’s award decision is introduced. The contracting authority may, after taking a decision on the award of the contract, find that when verifying the most favourable offer, it has overlooked or misunderstood a certain fact and has subsequently taken the wrong decision. The new decision replacing the previous decision may be subject to the application of legal protection by the tenderer. It shall also specify the additional reasons why the contracting authority may derogate from the conclusion of the contract in spite of a legal decision on the award of the contract, provided that it finds that there is a possibility that the content of the contract is a consequence of a criminal offence, or if, following the decision to award the contract, there are exceptional circumstances which the contracting authority could not foresee or affect and the conclusion of the contract with the successful tenderer makes no sense because it will not be able to fulfil the contractual obligations. In doing so, we ask ourselves why the Government, as a proponent in this case, has not also submitted an amendment to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. On the last amendment to the Public Procurement Act and probably other amendments, both were considered, according to the package. In our view, the solutions proposed should be implemented throughout the field of public procurement, since they are both substantive and nomological in nature. It should also be pointed out that these are the biggest public procurements in the case of this law, which is not being dealt with today and where problems are similar. While it was explained by the Government's representative on the working body that this bill was not put on the agenda because of time constraints, there can be no argument for such an important law. It is more likely that there is pressure or the influence of some within a ruling coalition that wants to harness energy and postal services and does not want to be limited. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already stressed, with the last amendment of the law, the inadequate solutions that now appear to be shortcomings. At that time, we drew attention to the dangers of obsessing provisions and to the ineffective resolution of problems relating to subcontractors. The solution proposed by this novel will not, in our view, solve the problem in its entirety. On the contrary, hypernormality will further create them. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce have a similar opinion. Their comments go in this direction. In our view, the law will not bring what is its main purpose, namely to prevent the abuses we have witnessed in recent times. And the reason is that those who do this do not suffer any sanctions, neither material nor moral. In spite of the above, we will not support certain appropriate solutions to the new law on public procurement in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me say this from the outset: in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. We will support him for three essential reasons. Firstly, with the implementation of the latest amendments and the completion of the Public Procurement Act exactly one year ago, compulsory direct payments to subcontractors were introduced with a view to regulating the payment discipline of public contracts with subcontractors. In view of the fact that direct payments are only mandatory for the first round of subcontractors under the law, the subcontractors as subcontractors reported their subsidiaries or undertakings to which the capital is linked, the subcontractors who actually carried out the contract were consequently excluded from direct payments. In view of the vortex of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, by which the legislator sought to reduce payment non-discipline, the proposal changes the definition of the subcontractor. We believe and we hope that such a solution will be able to regulate these anomalies, which we are actually discussing all day. Another time. The economic performance of public procurement, the selection of operators, payments to the main operators and direct payments to subcontractors require not only regulatory bases but also professional preparation, management and supervision. It is evident that there is an acute lack of both expertise and supervision for timely, quality and financial management of public procurement. Due to the fear of procedural errors, the choice of contracting entities generally only takes into account the lowest price criteria. We therefore absolutely support with the amendment the proposed solution, which, contrary to the basic proposal of the law, retains the public procurement examination, later defines it, and in particular clearly defines the obligations and deadlines in which the Government must determine the content and manner of carrying out the education and the professional examination by means of a sub-legislative act. We expect the disapproval and ill will of some budgetary users who are committed to the application of the Public Procurement Act, but we all need to be aware of what this is really about. It's about our money, it's about taxpayer money, it's about the economy. Third time. Inadmissible, immoral, all convictions are worth the practice of playing the rules of public procurement, which has evolved in us to masterly accuracy. The company gets into bankruptcy, on its knees, creditors, subcontractors, workers are left without everything, hungry, barefoot, without a roof over its head, without any hope of paying a fair and hard-earned and wasted payment. Let us establish one, two, three, countless subsidiaries, new businesses connected in one way or another, and laugh in a mustache at the state, creditors, workers, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, serve and never answer for anything. On the contrary, we continue to be kept in the safe hands of state money, state-owned enterprises and tendering. Interestingly, the circle of people is always the same, the same and – nothing to anyone. This practice must be removed step by step, interrupted, eradicated, uncompromising, brutal, however you wish. That's enough fooling around with all of us and all of this shit. If the law enforcement authorities are not already acting or their measures are not effective, at least the country in areas where it has scissors and linen must eliminate such anomalies. It is therefore necessary to exclude from the procurement the applicant, the tenderer and the subcontractor whose member of the management or the supervisory authority was, at any time within two years of the expiry of the time limit for the award of tenders, a member of the public procurement procedure or a member of the management or the supervisory authority, or an agent of the entity to which the insolvency proceedings were initiated or the enforcement procedure or the forced termination procedure. It is also necessary to exclude companies in bankruptcy from the procurement procedures. We can't just deal with public money, we can't deal with taxpayer money so carelessly. Each company still checks the credit ratings of the companies with which it cooperates under these severe tight conditions. And if ratings are bad, he simply doesn't cooperate with these companies. In our case, however, it would be easy to use public procurement, regardless of whether the company is in bankruptcy, in a forced settlement, to continue to cooperate. I don't think that's acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled in this Article. The amendments were tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups, namely Articles 8, 9, 18, 32, 37, 39. You have an overview or these amendments. On the basis of these, we will discuss and decide. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 8 and the amendment to this Article tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate by Article 8. We are moving on to the debate on Article 9 and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to say I'm going to support the amendment, so I can speak at all. Then I am interested in a question that I hope the Ministry representatives will answer for me. This Article 9 speaks of the fact that the person who decides to order must be qualified to have a certificate that he must renew his knowledge, etc., and that this knowledge will be acquired in persons who will acquire public powers at a public competition. The question that follows has been heard many times; also how these trainings are not offered by the authorities of the state administration, which must have adequate expertise, which here and there are also drafting legislative proposals, and therefore must be broadcast as work under a contract or under the public authority of someone outside this administration, which is a duplication of costs, as I estimate that the top experts, who are also employed in our national administration, could carry out such training within the framework of their working time and obligations without any problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Matej Vraničnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, Article 9, paragraph 8, or Article 24, paragraph 8, provides that the Ministry responsible for public administration shall perform the tasks relating to the professional examination. This ministry will also carry out education. The following sentence only refers to the possibility that, on the basis of public authority, he may grant the possibility of carrying out an education and carrying out an expert examination to an external institution. So it's an option, it's not an obligation. However, I must say that our co-workers, within the framework of the education organised by the Administrative Academy, are very active in participating and transferring the knowledge we have at the Ministry in this area, including to participants in such education, whenever there are major changes to the law on public procurement. However, I must say that there is a great deal of public procurement in all persons who are bound to respect the law on public procurement. My colleague tells me that the estimated number there is about 10,000 such persons, and the question is whether training and professional examinations could be carried out in the framework of the Administrative Academy for such a multitude. For this reason, I consider it appropriate to allow for the possibility of granting these tasks to an external operator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u100	First of all, I didn't say it was mandatory. I said it was possible with public authority. But I asked only very simply, as many ask, how could they not – you have tried to answer that these people, who have to train them, are too many, even though they train them in certain cycles – how could I, within our national administrative apparatus, accounted for so many and so many thousands of people, not find a staff that would do this within the framework of their work obligations. I doubt that, but if it is as you say, because of this great scale, we will have to have, or we allow ourselves to have, the possibility that private companies will be able to do so, then a huge amount of these private companies and private lecturers will also have to do so. And they will probably also perform a number of employees in the state administration through individual d.o.o. and other companies that will be given public authority. Such prohibitions that we should not do this, which would otherwise be mandatory civil servants, I have not seen here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I must say that I will support the amendment and I fully agree with the consideration of my colleague Rezman. Especially those who are still doing other things in the public sector in the municipalities are simply appalled at what market niches we have managed to provide to certain educational companies and organisations when we look at educational seminars, namely those organised in the SOS and the ZOS. There are quotations of between 15 and 30 euros. Where they are organised by these companies, however, there are numbers of 200 euros up. And after you look at the list of lecturers – visible, important people from ministries, from the public sector, directors of directors and someone else. A similar story as here also occurs to us in the invitation to tender for the municipalities, for example, for certain ministries, companies are already walking in municipalities, education, preparation of terrain and this for invitations to open only in May and June. This is said to be a link between earners and entrepreneurship with the Ministry, and I therefore support this thought. You have to be careful here, and you have to cut here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I no longer see interest, I conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 18 and the amendment to Article 18, which has also been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u104	That's right, it's an amendment to the board. The original proponents, however, were our colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, and I must say that the matter and reflection are true, I support the amendment. Lumpari and the barbarians in Slovenian construction have caused us, and they will be, much worse for us, and perhaps this is an opportunity to build Slovenian construction on smaller and certainly more solid foundations. A while ago, I was reading an interview with one of the Slovenians who works in Italian construction, namely a normal construction worker with secondary education and a B examination there is a normal salary of between a thousand 200 and a thousand 500 euros. In our country, however, we have practiced the system that equal work has been done by people who have come to Slovenia from all over the Balkans and half of Europe and have worked for 300, 400 euros in poor inhuman conditions. All the profits, all the profits from the sub-contractor, the sub-contractor put the owners in his pocket. It's simply unacceptable, unworthy. Even in the light of employment policy, it seems to me that if we pay the citizens of Slovenia fairly, then we will not have any problems by hiring our people. Above all, what matters is interesting. However, in Italy or in Primorje, where these companies compete, the construction product eventually stood the same. I think that, as this crisis is, of course, a tragedy and a disaster for many people, there is also an opportunity to encourage in Slovenia the knowledge that the profession of a builder, if only paid with dignity, of course of all respect and consideration, is worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment. Let me tell you why. I myself proposed an amendment on the Committee on Finance, which, in fact, was also the source of one that was a little more radical. After the debates and debates we have had in recent days, I also agree with this, a somewhat popular amendment, but with which we will resolve a lot of things. What has been happening in our country in recent years, when some on public contracts have become rich; even more, they have owned companies and, now, they are watching a post festival, they have come into trouble, they have left the demolition behind, the company has bankrupted, forced settlement and workers have thrown on the road without everything, at the same time they have established several parallel subsidiaries of new companies, they have changed their working clothes, blue clothes, they have put on green, and they will continue to be happy to participate in public procurement – it is unacceptable. And we can't let that happen in this country. This article is going this way and that is why we will support this article. We will also support it because it excludes companies that are in bankruptcy. It was impossible and abnormal that the law allowed the public procurement to be carried out by those undertakings which were in bankruptcy, forcible settlement and, of course, by their own discretion, the contracting authority may decide whether or not to cooperate with a company which was in any event financially threatened. That's unacceptable, too. We are in a time when we have a billion and a half or two billion deficits in the budget, and that is why tax money must be treated very responsibly. I said earlier about the pay phone, companies today twice, three times that I will not say ten times check the ratings of their business partners with whom they cooperate. This must also be done by those involved in public procurement. It's morality, of course, and it's strange that we have to write in some way into the laws that we adopt. Logically, anyone who works with their money would be unable to cooperate with someone you know is in a difficult financial situation, but unfortunately, you cannot cooperate; thanking, apologize, in short, is impossible. I would expect this article, or this supplement, to be given here, but with tax money in the future, it will force a little more responsibility. I'm sorry it has to be coerced, but that's the way it is. As I said, we will support this 18th article. We will also support the entire law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. True, this law or this article was much more radical in its original form. He also intervened in the areas of companies which are in forcible settlement. In cooperation with the People's Party, which has been the proponent of the original amendment to the basic text, we have somehow succeeded in forcible settlement is actually the rehabilitation of the company and it is pointless that such a company, which has the opportunity and assumes that it could be remedied, could be excluded from this, as this business could also be part of the rehabilitation. And some of these companies, some of them we have already had in Slovenia, and this is the Mura case, and probably who, where these companies can be very quality, which are in a forced settlement, has successfully demonstrated in some kind of rehabilitation that with the knowledge that is in these companies, not with the owners, but with the knowledge that is, with the workers, they can also compete successfully in the field. It is true, however, that entrepreneurship in this area is so innovative that we can never follow these innovations through legislation. This proved to be the final publication of a law, or amendment, where we wrote down, and one of the subcontractors found a way around it. This too, I am sure, will go a long way or at least try, and as my colleague Radovan Žerjav said, it is moral within these procedures, it is the responsibility of the people who run the procedures and therefore it is important that these people are qualified to have the certificate and bear their part of the responsibility. We have therefore also supported this part of the committee's debate and reflection on how and in what way people working with public money, who allocate public money, who share billions of money on public calls, how to give them responsibility, how to put them in a position to do so professionally. Finally, this was the request of the Chamber of Commerce, even so far as the invitation to tender, when it was completed, should examine the expert in this area whether the most economically advantageous bidder was chosen. It's about the dumped prices, it's about data manipulations and some other stuff. Let us hope that through this education and certification of these people we will be part of this [[...]] It is also desirable that public procurement services, especially in the local area, unite, as do some services such as editors or others, in order to do so in this area, and that this will not be a kindergarten in which an official or someone who has the ability to distribute public finances will direct it. It is also about the fact that public calls will be correct, fair and that cash flow, cash flow, as we like to call it, from the public finances which it is generally, also flows into this real sector. And in this way, reduce this payment non-discipline. It is not understandable that someone who does not have one square metre of road or one supply tunnel and these things paid by public funds leaves a number of subcontractors to fail — or we will not name or do some advertising to these people. But that's what this is about, and it's about morality within these businesses. And it is true that these are more moral things that we regret to enter into the law in order to make the innovation of the economists who are more concerned with consolidating ownership and their finances than with the prospects for the development of these companies. And the provisions that are in here — not for the sake of being able, but for those who sign this must eliminate such an extremely important message; rather than taking this into account or not, it is a message from this national assembly that we want to end these rascals. I think it is therefore worth supporting such an amendment, which allows for one part of the economic segment, which is in a forced settlement and has a perspective of correcting itself with the help of public finances. However, we will certainly not only solve this by means of this law, and the area of the insolvency, compulsory settlement and bankruptcy law will need to be thoroughly processed and these two elements in the economy, bankruptcy and forced settlement, which are such as to mean a new start. And once we do so, we will also solve many economic problems in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it makes sense to support this amendment, because in my opinion it will prevent a number of things from happening in the past. I would point out once again that the fundamental disadvantage of this law is that, as I have already mentioned in the parliamentary procedure, there is also a law governing public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services, because, as I have already mentioned in the position, public procurement is to a large extent in this area and it is unfortunate that at the same time the solutions provided for in this Public Procurement Act would not be implemented simultaneously in this other law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask myself to explain to myself whether or not I'm thinking about what's wrong. In this Article 18 – I will support the amendment, but this amendment states that the candidate or tenderer who, on the day of the deadline for the submission of tenders, does not have the tax obligations and contributions paid, which I fully agree with. However, I now ask if this day, when the deadline for the submission of the offer expires today, and someone yesterday paid contributions that he had not paid before, I don't know how long no, or whether he has bought it now, would have said, forgives for all previous violations, and whether those who, 10 or 20 years ago, paid all the taxes on a regular basis and couldn't pay them yesterday for the reason that his cash flow actually went out after all the contracts and contract deadlines of the previous week, but someone screwed up on this contract and couldn't pay it, and it's nothing to blame himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vraničarova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. With regard to the question raised, I should like to explain the following. Any provision which states that a person who does not have all the tax obligations settled must be excluded from the procurement procedure must be subject to a cut-off date. And that cut-off date shall be the date on which the time limit for the submission of tenders expires. In your two cases, if a person has not paid for a longer period of time, the day before the submission of tenders has settled all obligations, including late interest, the tax authority will have to issue a certificate for such a person that on day X it has fulfilled all its tax obligations and owes nothing. The person mentioned in your other case, who has always fulfilled his or her tax obligations, falls under certain circumstances which he or she could not have affected and is therefore once late for payment, and this is precisely during this period, in tax law, this person shall be considered to have fulfilled all his or her tax obligations, of course, if he or she continues to do so in accordance with an authorised deferral or periodic payment. This means that a person who once gets into difficulties in paying taxes and contributions will not only be penalised for this and will not be able to participate in public procurement procedures – he will be able, but will have to make sure that his tax obligations are properly regulated in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! With this amendment to Article 18, I think that we are already showing one will and one will not, but a serious commitment to making some changes in this area and in general in the area of payment discipline and acquisition. In the latter, when it says that a new fifth paragraph is added, which reads as follows: 'When the tenderer intends to execute a contract with a subcontractor, the conditions set out in paragraph 4 of this Article shall also be met by the subcontractor involved in the execution of the contract.' This supplement is very important because we know how it happened. They all set up one company, another company, and at the end of the day, they were able to drive and actually pay the most "up" by smaller entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs. Perhaps there are some things that are not and cannot be so clear to you here in this Chamber, but I will now tell you how you can sit in this House if you are elected as a Member. If you're in a company that doesn't pay taxes, you just finish your term and come to the National Assembly. If you're in a part of it – no problem, you finish your term and come to the National Assembly. But if you're in espoia, God forbid you owe anything! And they can owe you other people. I don't know how much. You have to settle everything so you can sit on this chair. I'm one of those guys. When companies owed me, I couldn't settle everything, even though I had everything settled by now and then. I had to take credit, pay for everything the country was doing, and then I could just sit in this chair. If this were the order for everyone in this country, we wouldn't be in the same kind of trouble as we are today. We know the order to work, but on the small things, but not the big ones, and we need to stick to that order and keep it all the same. I have told the National Assembly many times that we are discriminatory to independent entrepreneurs. There's another thing going on today. Very nice, Madam Secretary, I support you in saying that you need to be elastic, that you need to have a cut-off moment, that if you didn't pay for a month, and because of such problems and problems, he has been credited, which, we all know, made it impossible for him to pay because his purpose wasn't to pay, but for independent entrepreneurs it doesn't apply. You're 20 euros late when you pay social contributions, you come to the doctor, because you don't know you're late, and that's what happens, and your sister comes out with a masa card: "Hey, sir, you don't have paid contributions, but today you can't go to the doctor." All these things are happening in this country and we are experiencing all these things by independent entrepreneurs. Businesses do not experience this, in d. o. o. they do not experience this, in independent entrepreneurs it is experienced. I'm for making order for everything completely the same. And for closure. Speaking of independent entrepreneurs. Here in Ljubljana a doctor works, I don't know how to write, he's retired, he has an office where he works for free. We receive medicines that have not expired and are visited by people who do not have social security — and what did he say on TV? The biggest problem comes from the failed independent entrepreneurs who failed to do so because of such scoundrels in this country when they brought these independent entrepreneurs and their families. Families fell apart, they failed in person, not as a business, because business could work. Please, we're on our way when we can make an order for everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u118	I agree that there must be deadlines and that it can be a cut-off date, for example, one of those deadlines. But a cut date can also have an alternative, say, a cut-off period. What we're going to do is, let's say, if someone hasn't paid this money on purpose in months, turned this money around, invested it somewhere else, paid back back the last day, so that they can get a public order that will then allow him, for example, for the next year or even more to do this one and the same. I think it's quite right to take into account the fact that someone is in distress, let's say a day, two or a week, that someone is planning to work for longer periods of time and by paying for their vacations than in the Middle Ages will allow them to continue their work in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. And there's one other thing running away from me. Indeed, there are many people who are owed money by the State and are not paid back to them, but they are also indebted to the State, but no article in this law or in these amendments allows this to be offset by a cessium contract or something like that. I don't know, man has the feeling that he's doing this on purpose, and then one person gets squeezed, he gets everything he's got, and maybe the country doesn't have to pay the debt he owes to that man anymore. I even think that a brand new law should be made — not a change, not a correction, because it is a flick of a flaky dress. It's never a new dress and it's never what it used to be. We should sit down and, after all, be able to tighten up in some other areas, and also tighten up in the field of who should be dealing with any kind of business at all. We have a whole range of people in Slovenia who destroyed one company and went to another. And they destroyed those businesses, and they went to the third; and they rolled about. Always the same people! The bankruptcy managers manage the bankruptcy assets until they burn up all the money – and no one! It's nobody's fault. We're writing some laws, I don't know what everything is trying to do here, after all, a person has the feeling that he's just looking for a cover to hide some of the already existing negligence, and there are some other things that are preparing, because I don't hear one good news in the morning when I get up, or at night when I watch TV. Rarely something beautiful: only from athletes or some other culture. From the economy or from politics, I hear absolutely nothing good, absolutely nothing that a person could say is going to be a little better tomorrow. And then there are laws that essentially, even if we look a little further, we ask why the boundaries of penalties in companies are falling. If someone cheated and cheated on a company, I don't know if the company cheated on someone for five million, we're not going to vaccinate him for 350 grand. No, we'll go to 100 grand to keep the poor guy 250 grand in his pocket. Or for the responsible person, when there were between €2,000 and €12,000, there are now between €500 and €2,000. For a director who has 14, 15, or 20,000 euros in wages, it's like nothing. But, like my colleague said, we're going to destroy the S.P. because they're the most capable of destroying it. But I'm sure that's the first step. Or are we really going back to a period like 1949, when they supported everything, destroyed those privates, etc. The world is moving on, Slovenia is going back. And with such laws! This law is not granted. It is not assigned and instead to sit together and do something together, the government hides everything until the last moment and then bursts out with one such law that we must adopt and is, of course, also adopted here because the coalition has a majority. From the very beginning, we said that we should sit down with Pahor and he promised that we would sit down and that the opposition would participate as it did in the previous term. I was in the previous term in the opposition, but Janša called us and we sat down and debated things. Now Pahor has promised to continue this practice, once we were together, and then nothing more – and then the petrol fire is extinguished. It's not about settling a case, it's some flat-rate regulation of a matter that doesn't have that solid basis. I don't know, what we're pushing and flicking, but let's take a case of English law when one law comes in, it's completely changed, not that we have a law amending the law and a law amending the law, and that kind of thing, and those who can't be bureaucratic and look after bureaucracy, will always burn. But I have a feeling that the country is waiting for this and wants it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, in fact, it has been a much more spiritistic atmosphere all day, but we are talking about very important laws. It was interesting to follow the atmosphere yesterday, here in this Chamber, when there was much more debate, much more plentiful statements, today when we talk about how to resolve payment non-discipline, we talk about public procurement, there is no too much will and desire to discuss it. With this Article 18, I see it in part as well as the sharpening of this Article 18 in some way than the creation of a blacklist. The blacklist, which has been discussed a lot in the past, but also now, especially the problem of how an individual enterprise, with whom you are not satisfied in one way or another, cannot participate, in short, is a problem to get it on this blacklist. These paragraphs, which we have written in Article 18, will improve everyone, I will tell the contracting authority; the contracting authority. And that seems important to me. The worst part is when the contracting entity has no leverage, it has no tools to defend itself; how to defend itself from unsuitable tenderers, in short, who should not participate in a specific public contract. And these articles, these paragraphs that we've written down, give this to the client. That's why I think it's important. It seems to me that it is, however, one step at a time, one step at a time, one step at a time, one of the many anomalies we have witnessed recently, the last two, three years, if you want to eliminate, however. I would like to continue this way, and I also absolutely agree with what my colleague Jelinčič said – with more dialogue, with more communication, with more cooperation – and I would probably like to step forward with another anomaly. For example, there is a lot of talk about the taking of property, and we step a little on the spot and so on. Chain establishment – this is actually a sport with us. You set up businesses as much as you want, you leave old people behind, you don't even care what happens to them, and so on. The issue of enforcement – an important question, and so on. In short, I really want this article to be adopted, because one of the anomalies will certainly be solved with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 18 and the amendment to this Article? Yeah. Mr. Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u124	I also support the adoption of such an amendment. I think it is absolutely necessary, for I myself know in concrete terms how last year's largest Slovenian construction company has served to have a third term, if I say so, a subsidiary run for public procurement, which was worth almost EUR 20 million from the design budget, and to have an offer of EUR 11 million. And if we know what the consequences of this are, what I am saying often happens, given that for several years, even as the mayor of the municipalities, I know how public procurement works, that there are new social problems on public contracts. And these social problems are in these categories that are trying to change through this amendment of the law. So, in the end, with the subcontractors. For if someone offers an offer value that does not even cover the costs of the material, it is very clear to you that there can be no other end than that either the works are not done qualitatively or someone does not receive the invoices paid. Therefore, I think that the step in the direction indicated by this amendment of the law, which is also indicated by this article, which was made by colleague Žerjav, and then, in cooperation, the coalition has added something else, but I think that the essentials are summed up, right. I think that's a step in the right direction. And that is why I support this amendment and I propose that we confirm it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you. Anyone else? No, then we move on to Article 32 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u126	I have another question, and I can't ask others because the articles are open. In relation to this Article and its points 1 and 4 thereof. The first paragraph shall record an offence for legal persons who comply with the law governing companies, medium and large enterprises and so on. Finally, point 4 states that the responsible persons of legal persons, independent entrepreneurs, individuals and public authorities or local self-government communities are also subject to sanctions, and all else is released. My question is how it is with other public legal persons; or, therefore, they do not fall under the same criteria, but I am thinking of public institutions, public agencies, ministries and all others that can also be contracting authorities. And if there's any clever reason why we don't count them, then I'd like to know about him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Vranitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u128	If I may make this point clear. As far as the State authorities and the authorities of the self-government local community are concerned by the law on offences themselves, the State authority or the authority of the self-government local community cannot be responsible for the offence; only the responsible person in that body can be responsible for the offence. Therefore, in the first paragraph of Article 32, this person is not, in essence, covered. Other companies, however, are covered by paragraph 2, or paragraph 3, where they are sanctioned for the same offences, but by different or different penalties or other fines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Well, an interesting part of the explanation of the amendment to Articles 32 to 34 is that when it says why the contracting authority, that is, the person who signs the contract cannot be punished for the offence. It reads: deleted provisions defining as an offence the non-compliant definition of criteria for selecting conditions for the coordination of competence or technical specifications. In principle, the contracting authority does not set discriminatory criteria and conditions on purpose, but does not know. Since contracting authorities must have contracts for these qualified persons, then I do not know how we can refer to ignorance. Now, if they are qualified, they cannot be ignorant or ignorant, but such public contracts do not just take someone off the road. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it is assumed that they know something and that these discriminatory criteria and those conditions are so written on purpose that contracting entities can avoid any penalties. It's very cleverly written. I don't know who advised you, but in this way a good lawyer wipes out every responsibility because you already have in this explanation that he doesn't do it on purpose, but he doesn't know – a poor poor man because he doesn't know! I think that we already have a whole range of hacks in this area in Slovenia, let's say, in choosing the contractor already one way or another, when it is not chosen according to this principle, that the best solution is to be found, not the cheapest solution, but in general we need to look at how much money we will spend, but if that is to be fixed twice or three times, and that is to say twice or three times the price that has been higher – no one cares anymore because there is some money here again. Then there's the Republic Audit Commission, which also works in a very strange way and there's weird jokes going on. I have heard from quite a number of representatives of companies who said they had complained about the audit committee, and the audit committee has decided so funny that they are convinced that it is a fraud, that it may be corruption. And according to that paperwork and those statements, and given what they told me, I'm pretty sure it's something like that. In short, unless we say again, in accordance with this explanation, that the Republic Audit Commission does not know. I mean, we're a funny country to put in our new legislation free options for those who will do something wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Vranitzer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much again for your word. In relation to this last debate, however, it should be stressed that it is necessary to distinguish between the procedure for an offence committed by the responsible person in the conduct of the procurement procedure and the procedure for legal protection in relation to public procurement as such. There are two separate issues and in relation to criminal law, it is already under the law on offences that only a person who can be held responsible for the offence can be held responsible for the offence, either by slander or by gross negligence. A completely different question is, in which cases or in what way can only be challenged by the award of a public contract in the context of the procurement proceedings, these cases, which, Mr Jelinčič, have been discussed and sanctioned or may lead to the annulment or, in the worst cases, even to the nullity of the contract of award of a public contract. Thus, we must separate, on the one hand, criminal liability, responsible persons and, on the other hand, the possibility of legal protection in relation to public procurement, and, of course, any disciplinary responsibility related to the ignorance or inadequacy of the conduct of a particular professional involved in the procurement process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u134	However, there is a significant difference in view of the fact that if we look at this first point, where the penalty of up to 100,000 euros is at risk and the fourth point, where the penalty of 500 euros is at risk, it could therefore be the same offence for several hundred times. If the legal person of public law commits something that is listed in points 1 to 12 or 13, to 17, then we have very different sanctions for companies – for these large, important, noticeable – and for legal persons of public law substantially, substantially smaller. That's one of my thoughts. Another point on what Mr Jelinčič has been talking about. Let me read what it really says here. Provisions shall be deleted which define as an offence the non-compliant definition of the criteria of origin, the conditions for determining competence and the technical specifications. In principle, the contracting authority does not set discriminatory criteria and conditions on purpose, but does not know. The tenderers shall have the opportunity to enforce legal protection against this infringement and to request the remedy of the infringement. Since mistakes occur at work, it is pointless to sanction well-intentioned but ignorant or misleading contracting authorities — who is not insidious?Oh, my God! However, it is difficult for dishonest contracting authorities to prove their malice. That's saying nothing can happen like that. Let me also say what sounds more foreign, but it is clear to lawyers, ignorantia iuris nocturnal or ignorantia non est argumentum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I was going to say that, too, that ignorance of the law doesn't tie the blame. However, this marriage proposal preempts the guilt of those who do wrong. Because it is very difficult to prove to someone that he has done wrong for dishonest purposes, especially in Slovenia, when we have so many incompetent people in jobs where we should be very capable. The way you look at it, you know, well, this guy really couldn't write or do something for evil purposes, how to understand what he's supposed to do. But another interesting thing is in here, for example, that the responsible person who illegally acquired the property can be punished with a maximum of 6,000 euros. That's great! That's nice! Let's make a fortune of half a million euros or a million euros, we'll pay 6 euros, we'll get rid of all the guilt and we'll keep the assets. Nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 32 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. Then we move on to Article 37 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. We are moving on to Article 39 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 25th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u138	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Late Payments in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u139	Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will oppose the proposed solutions covered by the law on the prevention of late payments. We are convinced that, while the government has a well-sounding purpose and objective, this is to prevent financial indiscipline, but the solution to this problem is being tackled with very loving or inefficient instruments. In the view of the Economic Chamber, this law will further increase the inefficiencies between economic operators and will not solve the problem, although the government, namely the office and the policy, claim that it will. I therefore believe that first of all solutions should be carefully reconsidered, analysed at all, and then made decisions, such as to make them obsolete. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the main source of payment non-discipline is elsewhere, in a credit crunch, because financial institutions do not service the needs of the economy. Good companies, they don't get money with good programs. The problem is also that, in fact, investment in key development projects in this country has stopped, and so there are no projects, and for those rare ones, there are very low prices at the expense of the subcontractor's failure to pay. And what's very important is that in the country we should change our behavior. See, the source of non-payments was actually caused by state-owned companies, see only Dars in the construction of the Pomeranian arm of the motorway, for example, the Ministry of Culture in the construction of the Opera in the immediate vicinity where the operator of Vegrad was then the SCT and the purchaser of subcontractors without pay. And these are the key reasons: the country, through state budgets and through state-owned companies, is releasing about half of the money into the economy, half of the gross domestic product of one year. And if it is not able to control payments to subcontractors despite the adoption of legislation, a good part of the blame for payment non-discipline is also here. So if the government proposed appropriate measures and added to these measures, which I have now listed, also this, then we could believe and hope that the payment discipline will be reduced or at least infuriated in the future. However, since this is not so, because such measures are lonely, uncoordinated, we feel that this solution is inappropriate and therefore we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 17. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia under the urgent procedure We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. 2011. We move on to Article 7 and move on to a decision on the amendment of Article 7 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 13 and move on to the decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 13. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you. We will not support the amendment of the Capital Investment Management Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We will vote against this because, so far, the implementation of this law has shown that the purposes which led to its adoption six months ago have not been realized in the field of more efficient management of state investment, and not in the area of the shift in the management of capital investments from day-to-day policy. Also in connection with the novel we have today on the table, we have witnessed a prestigious conflict between the Social Democrats and Zares at the point of controlling energy companies. Reason — Article 3 of the novel is deleted or was rejected on the committee. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group does not want to participate in the conflict over the sharing of spoils, but we want to participate in the argument of better, more efficient and more cost-effective management of state assets. This novel does not guarantee this, as it does not guarantee, as we see, the law itself. Over the past months, we have witnessed several times that, even in this National Assembly, on the committee responsible, on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, we have called on the Agency's management to start carrying out its function and the task assigned to it by this Act and to exercise its responsibility in those undertakings with significant state assets where, according to the assessment of the competent institutions, the Court of Auditors has found that they do not manage it economically and with a view to effectively managing it through public funds. Moreover, there is even suspicion that part of this money flows into individual private pockets. Nothing happened, no more! Those with adequate political backdrops can continue to serve as managers of administrations and supervisory councils, and those who do not have this political backdrop, although they do well to manage state property well, to generate profits, such as the Post of Slovenia and Mr Hvauc, are increasingly under the shock of the current authorities, the current policies with the aim of replacing them. Not because we would not do well, not because we would not effectively manage what is entrusted to them, but because they were not appointed on the proposal of the consecrated, those who consider the state to be their hereditary feud or property, and this is the current ruling coalition. We will resist this in the SDS, we will so far, and we will also be in the future. And also for this reason, this novel, which does not improve this law and thus does not improve the efficiency of managing state property and state investment, of course, we cannot support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Franci Kek Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. We will support this law, even though it is without Article 3. And I add that there is no fight for energy between SD and Zares, because Minister Radiceva has made it clear that excluded companies that are to be excluded under the European Directive are not necessarily foreseen to come to the Ministry of Economy, but can go either to Kad, or to the Court, or to the Ministry of Finance, or anywhere. So it's not about any of the activities of Zares to allow himself to control his energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 26. (The vote was 42.)(against 26.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. 2011. We are moving on to Article 8 and are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS, LDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 9 and move on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 18 and move on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 18. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 32 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 32. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 37, we decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 37. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 39 and deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 39. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 8, 9, 18, 32, 37 and 39 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. Please, you have the floor. Can I help you? I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 27th item of the agenda – this is the report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services for 2009 under the heading ‘secret’ – only the report. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for views and conclusions. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u145	We will support the proposed positions and conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The Commission’s monitoring of intelligence and security services highlighted in the report the problem of politicisation of supervised services. The individual cases reported by the Commission in the context of its work in 2009 show that it is not possible to prevent their abuse for political purposes only through the exercise of parliamentary control over intelligence and security services. Acting in individual procedures and investigations, which are generally very media-exposed, leaves in the public an increasingly serious doubt as to the objectivity and legality of the proceedings, and thus seriously doubts as to the legality of these services. The politicisation of supervised services and the selective treatment of cases is a poor journey to raise public confidence in their professional and independent work, which is the only wedding for the rule of law. Based on these findings and views and on the findings and views of the report, the Commission proposed to the National Assembly two key decisions. Firstly, the National Assembly proposes to the Government to ensure that controls are improved in the work relating to the use of covert investigative measures in cases where proceedings against a supervised person are stopped or concluded without the lodging of a criminal complaint, i.e. when it turns out that there are no reasonable suspicions of a criminal service. Since the measures already taken are within the executive branch of the authority, the police and the prosecution in part, legal certainty in this case is not guaranteed by the court, since the proceedings have already been closed. In such cases, it is essential that the National Assembly has full control over such measures through the Parliamentary Commission, as there is no such control. Secondly, the National Assembly notes that the regulatory arrangements for the use of disguised investigation measures do not prevent the possibility of abuse of their application, since in individual cases they do not respect the principle of proportionality, rationality and efficiency, and therefore expect the competent authorities to interpret and apply legislation restrictively and with a view to detecting perpetrators of criminal offences and at the same time to prevent political distortions that occur in individual cases through extensive interpretation of the application. In the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I believe that we do not see any reservations about the adoption of these decisions. According to forecasts, these conclusions will not be adopted, which will mean that the ruling transition troika, Social Democrats, LDS and Really, we do not know from what inclinations, but on the basis of such rejection of conclusions, pushes the way for further politicisation of the intelligence and security services and the police. We do not want to attend this work in the SDS Group of Members, so we will support the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I find that opinions and conclusions are not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a referendum law and a human initiative is suitable for further consideration. I inform you that in accordance with Article 90, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present are necessary for the adoption of the decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u147	Your Honor! The State of Slovenia was created on the basis of a referendum decision and the referendum is today an important democratic institution incorporated into the Slovenian Constitution. There is much talk about the desire to change it, but unfortunately in the proposals of the Government, which we have seen these days, we can only understand the desire to limit the right of people to direct decision, even though Slovenia now stops it even in the first place, before the central realization of the power that takes place through elections and by dividing it into three branches of government; it is said legislatively, executively and judicially. A change requires a two-thirds majority, and it is clear that in the SDS we will not agree to restrict the right to a referendum because we are convinced that the people have the right to decide on all important issues of social life. We therefore want to preserve the democratic standards achieved and to strengthen the right to a referendum. At the same time, it is our desire to maintain this democratic institution, this democratic institution, to the fullest extent possible, which could be achieved by bringing together several referendums on the same referendum day. There would be no problem with that, just some good will. After all, this coalition is enshrined even in its own coalition contract as one of its objectives, for which it will verify the degree of consensus that can be achieved. This verification is possible today, and will also be carried out in practice today. In the SDS, we will certainly support this decision that the law is suitable for further consideration, as it provides a real opportunity to achieve a cheaper direct exercise of power, to a cheaper referendum with the merger of several referendums on one referendum day, while at the same time maintaining the institution of the referendum irrevocably and thus reaching the level of democratic decision-making, direct decision-making by the people, where once again I wish to remind you of the creation of an independent democratic state of Slovenia. It will be too much to offer anything that would limit the referendum. Then, I can say in advance, there will be no vote for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Also in the Slovenian People's Party, we co-signed the proposal to have one referendum day in the country, i.e. one referendum day. If we wanted to act even more rationally in this country, we could determine what I think would be wrong, so that one day a year, like a referendum, we could make an election and everything would take place once a year. By voicing that restricting decision-making at a referendum with such or other interventions to the referendum legislation itself is, in my opinion, inappropriate and is significantly more rational, even fair to citizens and citizens, that decision-making is for one day, as has already been said, which also means a substantial reduction in costs, since each referendum campaign and referendum has a consequence of certain costs. By doing so, however, what else would this accomplish? We would certainly achieve a significant different participation of citizens and citizens [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u150	I'm asking for a meeting in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u151	Well, yeah, president, don't worry, they don't care that much. Not even this country, let alone a referendum day. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u152	Voice explanation, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u153	Yeah, yeah, I'm trying to do that. I'll do mine. Therefore, direct decision-making by citizens and citizens is the most democratic way of making decisions and, of course, direct decision-making is also when we are elected, so that is when we want to do so, and with this one referendum day we only upgrade it. But I would expect from the coalition, as I have said before, that we might complement this with decision making, that is to say elections, so that we would have everything in one day of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Final Account for the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u155	Your Honor! We will not support this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, nor will it be supported by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. There are several reasons. I'll give them a few. First time. The final account talks about the implementation of the budget in 2009 and has in fact shown that public finances have been extremely unbalanced this year, that our revenues have fallen due to less tax collection as a result of the crisis and that the Government has failed, it has not been able to limit the country's current expenditure, in particular limiting the country's investment expenditure, which has further exacerbated the economic crisis. You have generated about 5% of the deficit this year, but 5% of the deficits, as expressed in percentages of gross domestic product. Compared to the government budget deficit, the deficit was around 23%, and 23% more than the country used to collect taxes and other revenues into the 2009 state budget. If someone believes in the stability of public finances in such a way, then very little knows about stability. This is as if households would spend 23% more than they have income and think they will survive a certain deadline. So it is possible to spend a year or two, and your government obviously thinks that it will be able to survive the entire mandate and additionally entrust this country. However, this is not the only reason why we oppose the adoption of such a decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Above all, these are two negative opinions, both for the accounts and for the implementation of the 2009 budgets. It was an extraordinary discrepancy between the rules and the conduct of this government in 2009, which was implementing the budget, and in this House we have already drawn up a solution for such cases. The solution to such cases is to reject the closing account for 2009 here today, on the basis of the rejected closing account, we charge the Government to correct the closing account and thus take into account the Court's observations. This is how the final invoice should be corrected to be submitted again to Parliament for its decision. With this, for the first time in the history of this country, we will have a more reliable record of spending public finances in the year behind us, which will be a new practice, but in order to allow this to happen, it is necessary to reject this final account today, so we will be voting against the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the 25th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue on Monday, 7. 3. 2011, 9 p.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
