ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Franz Bogovic, Mr Matjaž Zanoskar and Mr Vinko Gorenak. Representatives of the Government are invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 17 October 2011 with a reference to a meeting with one item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act, the second reading. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Group of 11 Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca Ravnikar, submitted to the assembly a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, a reduced procedure. With regard to this bill, the 23 Members and Members Group, first signed by Majdo Shirca Ravnikar on 19 October 2011, submitted an application for an extraordinary meeting of the assembly. In view of this, I propose that the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly be extended by considering that proposal. You were informed of this proposal by letter of date 20. Ten. 2011. Would you like a representative to say the words of the bill's motions? This is a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mrs Majdo Shirco Ravnikar. Does he? Mrs. Majda Shirc Ravnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u2	The proposal that we have on the table today does not have only majority support in the National Assembly and in the State Council, but I also speak on behalf of the Office of the Ombudsman, the Association for the Rights of Patients, the Child, the Association for the Civil Health of Public Health, for us, on behalf of the Advisory Centres for Children, Youths and Parents, in particular the Office of the Ombudsman in Ljubljana, also on behalf of the State Council and the Council, which, on the basis of a discussion on the protection of children and adolescents in case the parents do not have all the contributions paid, requested, proposed that legislation be amended immediately in a manner or as soon as possible, or if only possible or in a common good way, in a way that children or minors will not receive only emergency health care, as is now provided by law in cases where not only contributions, but also other assistance. The situation will be such that they do not get, if I simplify, only the bait, but the bait can also be followed by rehabilitation, not only to get an asthma medicine that is urgently saved from an emergency health situation, but also to have the right to rehabilitation. This problem has brought time, is acute, is inconsistent with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and also with our Constitution, so I believe that there will be no problem in supporting these changes, which go only to Article 78 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u4	At the Ministry of Health, we have already met this problem and we wanted to solve it comprehensively in the context of the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act. However, in this case, we wanted this procedure to be respected and to support the solution proposed by the Group of Members. The regulation now in force in law actually discriminates against children under 18 years of age who, although in the spirit of the law, would have the right to all kinds of health services regardless of the insurance of their or their parents' status, but because of the formalities introduced in the previous novel, a certain group of those children whose parents have not paid the contribution and are independent entrepreneurs, these benefits or rights cannot apply. Therefore, although this issue is not fully resolved, as there are other irregularities and inconsistencies that prevent certain groups of insured persons from exercising their rights to health care, in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we believe that this novelty needs to be supported in order to resolve at least the problems that these children have with regard to the exercise of healthcare rights at the outset. I suggest you support such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Anyone but Mr. Barovich? No, no, no. Then you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. You yourself have heard a kind conversation that you called on 1 hour ago – in the Slovenian National Party we absolutely support that, in addition to the basic agenda for which the meeting was convened, this meeting is also referred to as an extension of the Amendment and Supplemental Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We are absolutely opposed to further discussions at this meeting on mandate-holder matters. Therefore, I would be very happy to see each point of enlargement or to vote on each point of enlargement individually for the benefit of all of us, if not already done otherwise. Otherwise you will force us to have to, because we want the law on healthcare to go under enlargement, also confirm the mandate-holder matters, which I do not think is fair and fair. However, if you allow us, Mr President, to decide on each point individually, then I think it would be very fair and fair, but in fact the fairest and fairest thing would be to have this opportunity to accept the proposal of the Slovenian National Party for withdrawal from this proposal for enlargement of the optional issue in its entirety. We want to talk about the Health Care and Health Insurance Act in addition to the announced point, and we absolutely oppose resolving the mandate-holder matters on the last day of the existence and meeting of this National Assembly, even at an extraordinary meeting. I think that this is fair and fair and that this is not only the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, but everyone who thinks honestly at this moment in this national assembly. Please, if you can take any of the proposed measures into account, if not, I will try to pursue other procedures in a professional manner so that these two points, which are important for the Slovenians and the Slovenians, can be considered. In any event, the next power will be able to resolve matters peacefully within two months of its conscience and judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. We vote on each enlargement point separately. Whether it is on the agenda or not, we will decide on each proposal for enlargement separately. Then we will decide on the agenda as a whole. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance following a reduced procedure. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 2 of the agenda today after item 1 of the agenda. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the assembly that the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly be extended by a term of office. You were informed of this proposal by letter dated 20 October 2011. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Mr President Bojan Kontic? He doesn't want to. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? It's just an MP group. Then I'm filing a report. [[...]] On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will vote against the extension of the voting rights, point 3. Above all, it does not seem fair to us and does not seem fair to us to decide. I repeat, the last day of the extraordinary meeting and a few hours before the dissolution of the National Assembly, which will take place at 00:01, although our work will of course continue. I estimate that mandate-holder matters are a matter of long-term content that would be fair and right for the future government to decide and not so far away, because you know well that this will happen within a month and a half. I also call on colleagues and colleagues to make the same decision at all points of enlargement of the Mandate-Election Commission. I think that this will be the fairest way to treat both these people who are supposed to be decided in terms of mandate-holder matters, as well as the future authority that we do not know which will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Grims has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Your Honor! Here we face one of the things that in the democratic world and in some normal political culture today certainly would not be proposed for the agenda. The issue of constitutional law is being raised, what are those urgent matters that the Government can do. Again, a number of proposals are proposed for the agenda of the National Assembly, which was set up by the Government in resignation, which, by the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, has the only right to carry out urgent ongoing matters and nothing else. What is happening now after a vote of no confidence in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when it proposes new and new human resources solutions for the entire mandate period, is, of course, purely ordinary abuse of law and is clearly contrary to the constitutional principles that bind us all – the National Assembly, all officials and all those in the Government who knowingly open the way to their friends, acquaintances, political travellers for long-term earnings in well-paid jobs and at the same time impose large-scale glass into the system of the next government. Not only is it extremely inappropriate, once again I warn, it is also obviously illegal, it is unconstitutional and in the SDS Group we will definitely oppose such enlargement proposals. The government should not be able to resolve any human resources issue by way of derogation, except in exceptional cases, it may place someone as the perpetrator of an obligation with a limited mandate for a limited duration. Everything else means a drastic excess of powers, means that the constitutional framework of the State of Slovenia is knowingly being violated and that they want to create a situation in which it is very likely that in the next mandate in a wide range of areas there will be a need to see whether there is anything else that can be saved or whether the solutions are appropriate. I firmly believe that it is those who today are causing this obvious unconstitutional situation who are overstepping their powers, who will then start shouting and shouting, and who are referring to God to what principles, ethics, and something similar. It would be ethical for everyone to be aware of the limits of power and one of the fundamental principles of the restriction of power is that once it has been voted on by the Government, it cannot and must not or must not, propose nothing that goes beyond the framework of urgent work. Today is [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Guido Kres will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, at an informal meeting, we have found that we have knowledge, as well as wisdom. I would appeal, let's give, let's activate this wisdom and the third point, the mandate-election issues, let's just not discuss and let's leave it for the next term. I think it'll be the right thing to do, the wisest thing, and we have the knowledge for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u13	Thank you very much. There are no further statements to explain the views, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In this regard, I also inform you that, under this item, we will deal with six matters, which are marked from letter A to letter E, which you received today at the bench by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The National Assembly will treat electoral matters as item 3 of the agenda after item 2 of the agenda has been concluded. I inform you that Member Anton Anderlič tabled a proposal yesterday, 19 October 2011, to extend the agenda of this meeting by the agreement on the work of the National Assembly at the time of discharge, which was adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 119th meeting on 14 October 2011, and you received it by letter of 17 October 2011. The national assembly for the consideration of that agreement is not competent and the proposal for enlargement is contrary to Article 64, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of this, the National Assembly will not address the proposal to extend the agenda for an extraordinary meeting. Would you like a word, Mr. Anton Anderlich? It's like a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President! In this mandate, we do not have any luck in citing meetings of the National Assembly and meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and I am not surprised why there were already two requests for the discharge of the former President. Practice repeats itself. I attribute this to those who prepare these sessions, not to you. It is simply that you have exceeded your powers in the College and are in contravention of Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, which says: "In the case where the College decides, the decision of the College is taken if the proposal is supported by the leaders of the Group of Members whose members represent more than half of all Members in the National Assembly. The majority will of the College shall be determined by the President of the National Assembly." In an agreement that you say is only an agreement, you have decided that the College will agree at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly if the proposal is supported by the leaders of the parliamentary groups whose members represent two-thirds of the representatives of the total number of Members present. At this point, you have exceeded the powers you had at the College, even if you're pleading that this is an agreement. This is about things that change most of the rules of procedure that you can decide on. I myself hope that this agreement will not have to be realized at this time and that the matter will be, I will say, forgotten, because unacceptable practice will not be established, which is what happens when Mr Plevelje explains, is some consistent practice and we will work after that. If there is any legal void, let it be regulated by a new mandate in a manner that is appropriate in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I believe that, as in many cases, constitutional lawyers have different views on this issue. I have at least five opinions from constitutional lawyers, two of them have written a constitution, some of them have participated in the Constitutional Commission when we were involved in the adoption of the Constitution, and of course they say quite differently that conditions have not arisen that would dictate the adoption of such an agreement. This agreement would be fully corrected if it were accepted by the National Assembly, my fellow Members and Members. I don't understand why you fell for those who whisper to you that this is not within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our parliament has been stolen! It is only Parliament that decides on how it will work, what rules it will lay down, and certainly not on the College, which has strict powers. Moreover, if a group of Members disagrees with this decision, it can be verified in the National Assembly and decided again. I regret what happened, and let's move forward happily.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Tone Anderlich. Let me explain a few things. There are no constitutional or commercial provisions on the manner or extent of the work of the National Assembly at the time of dissolution. This is a legal void which would be legally possible to fill in correctly only with an appropriate amendment or addition to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Can I finish? Since the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or its amendments and additions are adopted on the basis of the reasonable application of the rules of procedure for the adoption of law, it has been assessed, in view of the announced dissolution of the National Assembly, that no amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure can be adopted within a given time frame. Taking into account the above, in particular the time constraints and the fact that there are no other legally binding possibilities for regulating this legal void, it has been assessed that only political agreement can be reached in the work of the National Assembly at the time of dissolution. On the content of this agreement, on the manner in which the National Assembly is working during its dissolution, I first convened a consultation with constitutional experts and then four informal consultations with the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities. On this basis, I took note of the record of the constitutional experts' discussion and prepared working material for informal consultations. I have asked all those invited to give their views or comments in writing on the work material. This was provided by only one parliamentary group and was also taken into account when preparing the final text. The College of the President of the National Assembly discussed the text of the agreement on Friday, 14. Ten. 2011 and adopted by consensus. All the leaders of the parliamentary groups present voted in favour, representing as many as 87 Members and Members. Let me stress once again that this is a legal void that has not been regulated by the adoption of amendments or additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to time constraints and that there are no other legally binding possibilities for this. For this reason, a political agreement was drawn up and adopted on the part of the National Assembly at the time of its dissolution, by making reasonable application of the provisions on the majority necessary for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This agreement is not prepared in the form of an act of the National Assembly which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, could be decided by the National Assembly. There is no doubt, however, that this is a political agreement that binds us to political morality. Mr. Anton Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Mr President, I suggest that you do not explain any further, because you will further complicate the situation in terms of respect for the various powers that a person has. Who is the one who adopts the most binding political agreement? Who? The National Assembly as the highest legislative body. Why did you prevent the National Assembly from adopting a political agreement on how it would work at that time? This is my point, and I only suggested that you present this political agreement to us and that the National Assembly treats it and accepts it, because when I looked at the 14th Magnetogram, 10. There was no debate. There have been some explanations again by Mr Plewell and I regret only this here and I hope that you do not have to continue, the matter is over for me, I have nothing to do with it. But if ever since Parliament was disbanded and there has been much talk about how someone will work, the government and Parliament, and so on, we have participated in many debates, on televisions, on round tables and so on, but you have not even attracted professional colleagues from the business commission to this work. You haven't informed her that you intend to do this. And what you are now explaining is not correct, because the interpretation is as I have written down that, in accordance with Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure are followed and given an opinion on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure by the Business Commission and no one else. I am sorry that this is the case, but I suggest that we end and finish at this point. I really hope that this agreement will not have to be realized, but if so, I hope that then the assembly will participate more actively and that it will be involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda as a whole. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road transport rules within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The bill is proposed at the 28th emergency session of the 20th. Ten. 2011 treated the Transport Committee as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Let me say immediately in the introduction that in the Group of Social Democrats we are pleased with the Committee on Transport's decision not to adopt the articles of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which has been tabled in the procedure by the Group of Members and Members. This is a very grave intervention in the Road Traffic Rules Act, which, while it is supposed to be a generous attempt to mitigate the level of penalties and the time limits for paying these penalties, is very gravely affected both in the Road Traffic Rules Act and in the Offences Act. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, this would in fact prevent the implementation of the Road Traffic Rules Act and also the punishment of those who commit traffic offences. Of course, the definition of applicants as easier offenses is extremely controversial, as it is difficult for us to agree that it is an easier offense if you do not use the safety belt. We also point out that we cannot agree in any way that in winter it is not necessary to clean a passenger or freight vehicle, because lack of transparency, poor visibility and, finally, parts of snow that can fall off cargo vehicles are sometimes extremely dangerous. In other words, aggressive driving in temperate traffic areas, in an area that is mainly intended for pedestrians, could lead to a tragic accident. Similarly, the use of mobile phones in drivers and cyclists in many cases is a cause of accidents. Otherwise, over 20 kilometres per hour from the allowed time should be tolerated in the settlements. This is, of course, extremely controversial again in the areas when we meet with playgrounds, playing areas, where even on Saturdays and Sundays children, of course in the game forget their safety as they approach the road. These are the reasons why we voted against this law on the Committee on Transport and we believe that it is indeed irresponsible at the end of this mandate to take decisions that would give a very controversial message to drivers or participants in transport that everything is actually allowed, and this punishment will probably not reach, because if it were adopted, the law could not be implemented in practice. This would, of course, be completely contrary to the logic of road safety and, last but not least, would undermine the achievement achieved in the previous government's mandate when the penalties increased by 100 %. Then, too, many accidents came to an end. In this reference, Parliament has adopted a new law in road traffic rules, which also refers to these penalties, but the penalties have increased dramatically only for driving in the opposite direction on the highway and for driving under the influence of alcohol. For others, increases were significantly lower, some 20%. Because of the fact that we do not destroy extremely important and courageous decisions here in Parliament at the expense of the fact that a policeman may sometimes do his job in a way that he does not like most, it would be, as I have said, extremely irresponsible. In the Group of Social Democrats, we once again welcome the decisions of the Transport Committee, which did not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Mag will present his position. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! The Road Traffic Rules Act, which was adopted last December and entered into force in the middle of this year, and all previous laws, which increased the penalties for certain road traffic or road safety violations, dramatically increased these penalties and eventually led to one excessive situation. The penalties for traffic offences, especially the smaller ones, are very high in Slovenia, too high for the purchasing power of our population and, compared to other European Union countries, for example, Germany and Austria, are far higher. In fact, this is the result of some logic of some narrow - looking experts, who see only in criminal policy and in higher depths a means by which they think they will achieve a reduction in the number of offences or the behavior of people as some robots who will follow all the stupidities that of course they prescribe and put the road manager back on track in the form of road signs. Today we have Slovenian roads written as a New Year's tree of various signs, which are more or less unimaginable, unprofessionally placed. Sticking to all the impossible limits, of course, is true art and has nothing to do with the frequent provision of security. Often these designations are non-professional and are set up for something when it will and what will come in concrete terms in some parts that have not yet begun. Here are a number of restrictions and designations of settlements where actually the settlement does not begin at all. As a result, police officers like to use these inadvertent signs as a reason to punish, or overspeed, any other wrongdoing, although it is obviously not a threat to anyone for five, 10 or 15 km faster driving. That is why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that in cases of minor offences, where it is evident that there is no danger of road safety, a warning should be given first and then, if a repetition of the offence takes place within 1 year, a prescribed fine is imposed. In this way, we want to make strict penal legislation a little closer to people. In fact, I am disappointed that many responsible at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport live in a closed virtual world away from people's problems. I'm sorry, dear coalition colleagues, but you obviously live in such a virtual world. Clearly, you are not affected by the problems of those citizens who have been ingrained in the past period, even though they have not done anything that would endanger road safety. They were stopped from a bush just next to the settlement board, although there was no settlement there, they were stopped in front of toll stations, where impossible restrictions were put in place, stopped for such and different reasons and did not endanger safety, but were fined and fined by the inexcusable provisions you adopted in December and were enforced by 1. This year's 7th. Dearly beloved, we want to make legislation in the field of criminal policy and road traffic offences a little closer to reality. Respectable people are not machines, people will not follow all the impossible markings they see on the roads and have nothing to do with common sense. These people are being punished and, of course, we are proposing and proposing that these penalties be at least slightly reduced for those offences that do not endanger road safety. On the committee, you voted against such solutions by coalition members, members of the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democrats, DeSUS and, of course, you prevented the adoption of this law, which reflects the needs and expectations of people. I believe that you have done a poor service to those who have been persecuted in the past period by unnecessary law enforcement authorities and also to those who will continue to do so in the coming days.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I should like to say that the majority of the members and members of the Group of Members really welcome today's decision of the parent working body, which today did not support the SDS proposal for a solution to the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act. Its main purpose, as I mentioned at the first reading, was to ensure that certain offences, which they said would not directly endanger road safety and would not result in harmful traffic consequences in the first offence, were given a reminder instead of a fine. If a road traffic operator repeated the offence within a period of 1 year and the official would not have warned him, he would have punished himself with the prescribed fine. A novelty was decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party because the new law imposes much more severe penalties than the formerly in force Road Safety Act, which applied until 30. 6. 2011. At the same time, the proposaler forgets to mention that the penalties increased dramatically in 2008, which was during the previous government of Janez Janša. In fact, we can agree with the SDS's concerns on the amount of penalties imposed in the Road Safety Act. At the time of its adoption in Zares, we proposed that the most appropriate amount of penalties should be adjusted to the amount of personal income or property in breach of road traffic regulations. Unfortunately, no parliamentary group backed up our proposal at the time, so we withdrew and did not insist. Once again, I am surprised that the SDS Group just before the early elections of the National Assembly has submitted a new law that opposes the level of the penalties currently prescribed, without being reduced, but only introduces one-year leave. I reiterate that, should the content be adopted, it would be contrary to the General Offences Act to introduce non-systemic changes or to introduce reminders with one-year leave. The applicable Road Traffic Rules Act pursues the main objectives of the country's transport security policy, such as reducing the number of traffic accidents in which persons are injured and fatal accidents. Therefore, with pride and upright attitude as part of the legislative body, I reiterate my satisfaction that the non-systemic solutions on the Committee have not been adopted. Preventing and changing the thinking of Slovenian drivers are those we must pursue in the future without any forgiveness, because, as a fellow member of the committee said, if the law is the solution of one life and the solution of one disability, it is doubtless enough to achieve its purpose. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the safety of our citizens and our children on the roads is more important than one or 100 or a thousand pre-election points. That is why we have not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members, welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret that this Parliament, by rejecting the bill on the committee, after the collapse of the coalition, has missed the opportunity to make life easier for citizens and citizens at the early conclusion of the mandate with this small measure. In this mandate, Members of the Slovenian People's Party have also proposed that, for the worst crimes which result in serious injury and even death, such as driving in the opposite direction along the highway, it is imperative that sufficient and effective penalties be put at risk in order to have a preventable effect. However, we reiterate that this is not enough for road safety, preventive education, safe driving training and, of course, safer and properly equipped and marked roads are important. When adopting new road rules, we had a lot of comments and proposals. We have warned that penalties must be reasonable and proportionate in relation to the severity of the offence and possible consequences. The legal novelty interferes with the recently established rules, which in fact caused a lot of disapproval and comments. Citizens and citizens are also referred to our Group of Members, and they point to cases that in fact point to the excessive involvement of authorities in the collection of penalties for offences. With the proposed amendment, fellow Members proposed that a reminder should be given instead of a fine for small offences that do not directly endanger the safety of road transport and that do not cause harmful consequences in traffic. This would certainly not endanger road safety and cause more accidents, so it is impossible to understand that such a positive law with such unconvincing objections has been rejected on the committee itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposer correctly noted that we also participated in the decision that the law was concluded in a form such as that of DeSUS Members. I'm certainly proud of this as a Member of the DeSUS. The applicants say that the penalties are too high in certain cases. Here I ask myself, what is this right amount of punishment to be acceptable? For us ordinary people, every fine, every punishment is high or too high, but this is a reflection of the fact that penalties are when we do not respect rules and laws, and the rules of road transport must be respected. The road doesn't wonder who's got the wallet, who's weak and who's not. The road and traffic on the road require the rules laid down. Let this lead us. No law is good and no law is acceptable to ordinary people, even this law may not be acceptable. However, if the law on road rules saves at least one life, if it solves tragedies, this law also has its purpose. Just one more thing, now that this is the last performance of the National Assembly. If we respect all road traffic rules, as the legislator says, then we do not have to be afraid of the height of the penalty, nor of safe driving. That is why I want a safe and careful ride for all users of Slovenian roads. Likewise, your fellow Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President! This law does not interfere with the most serious offenses, but in the part of the law, when it comes to offences of such nature, when it does not endanger anyone and it is an offence which a police officer could categorize with a warning. The law does not exclude alcoholics and drivers who are under the influence of illicit substances. No one wants the driver structure to be reduced but to increase, but as we see, repressive measures are not effective. What does the current law offer us? It offers this, as we have seen, that the municipalities in their budgets are planning the proceeds of offences. As can be seen in the case of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is equivalent to EUR 5.2 million. A year and more of the old decisions on payments and penalty points are being sent back, and these were sent by Ljubljana City Hall in June by over 11,000. As we see, we hunt for drivers only on minor offenses, in settlements where radars are set up for signs that limit speed. Speed certainly kills, but if restrictions and traffic rules are taken into account and the speed is adjusted to road conditions, accidents will also be reduced by accidents. We are all involved in traffic – both car drivers, motorists and cyclists are very dangerous as well as pedestrians must respect the rules that apply to them. It is not logical, however, to go across a border where traffic is even more dense and there are probably no fewer accidents, because if we follow traffic across Europe, we find that there are even more serious accidents there than we do. There are 100 or more vehicles involved in chain collisions when road conditions are poor — with fog and an ice cream. What am I trying to say? Even though they have a somewhat higher standard there, the penalties are lower and do not increase despite the increase in accidents. When they analyze the situation, they don't react panickingly. I am sure that in poor road conditions these preventions and respect are more common among our drivers than with foreign drivers. Who's driving and breaking up with us? Mainly foreigners, especially truckers, who do not heed any warnings on the highway and tunnels. I must say, I've never seen any of these offenders stopped by the police. It is not productive to penalize people in cash and even with the withdrawal of points, even in the final phase by the withdrawal of a driver’s license. Some of us know that repression never reaches its purpose. What if someone can't pay? There were always many of these, even when the penalties were even lower. We're going to build dams on this? For more capacity. We're gonna lock people up, and we're gonna put them on this account at work. But as far as reminders are concerned, there is no problem. The police have been monitoring the work of every police officer for a long time, and there is no fear that a colleague who will be at work for the second day or one week at a time would have had no data if he stopped the same offender. In any event, however, a conditional reminder would have a greater effect than a fine. That's what all the professionals who do this professionally know. If you don't have the right winter equipment and you're causing traffic disturbances, the penalty is 500 euros and 5 penalty points. If you come to Parliament this morning and drive home tonight, you will have some bad road conditions, no winter equipment, and if you interfere with traffic, it will cost you 500 euros and 5 penalty points. So it would be right if we all thought about it. Apparently, the former coalition is doing a poor service to the Slovenes and the Slovenians. We all agree that road accidents need to be reduced. Finally, you had the opportunity to secure the railway crossings, where the most fatal accidents occurred, and you did nothing, so today you will not convince us that you understand the problem of traffic and the causes of accidents, because you never knew how to listen to it, colleagues and colleagues from the former coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Bojan Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we have always supported all discussions, taking into account all opinions concerning transport safety. The fact is that the legislation we are talking about today, and we want to change it, we adopted it some year ago, and it was enacted in July of this year. The results of transport safety in Slovenia are good and are improving, the number of victims in transport is lower, and this is an important and necessary message. It seems too early for us to change after a few months a solution that works in practice, for better or for worse, but with attention and concern we have listened to all the problems that these marriage solutions proposed by the Ministry of Transport cause. On the other hand, our thinking goes also in this direction, that there will be a time to change this solution and that immediately before the elections, to open up these issues, which will become a pre-election topic, neither wise nor wise. The decision of each of us when we commit an offence, when we also pay the penalty, is, of course, in our heads and hands behind the wheel and on our feet. Of course, the punishments are high in these difficult times, sometimes too high and painful, but from personal experience I have to tell you that I have had the opportunity to be at some funerals where the young participants of the victim were in traffic and I must say that the biggest punishment is when you are present, even though you are not guilty and nothing is due. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that this moment is not yet appropriate to change solutions. In any case, however, we are close to thinking that allows people who are in distress to have a reasonable, perhaps extended period of time to pay the penalty. Until then, the decision is how we will act in traffic, how many crimes we will commit, especially in our hands, our feet and our heads.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 11 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirca Ravnikar. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Mrs Maja Širca Ravnikar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Your Honor! The Novela answers the question of what happens in cases where the parents after whom the children are insured do not have settled health insurance obligations. If contributions are not settled, children cannot get all medical attention but only emergency. This means that today children, adolescents do not have all the health services provided. The shares are only necessary, but not the rest of the health care. As has already been said today, a child may receive bait but not rehabilitation after fracture or injury, and may receive an infection medicine or any longer treatment of asthma or a disease to be treated. This truth has particularly hit hard in recent times of crisis, so we can say that this novel literally saves time. It was due time, as we are facing an increasing failure to pay contributions, which is a particular issue, and it would also be worth stressing this integral issue of non-payment of contributions, which will be regulated by the amendment if adopted in the State Council dealing with this issue. But we are dealing with the issue of children's rights as enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which does not distinguish between emergency and other medical assistance. We are also talking about Articles 54 and 56 of the Constitution, as well as the moral and ethical principles that this society can advocate and must defend. If we are talking about ethical principles, I stress that the practice of doctors and healthcare professionals dealing with situations where they should not offer assistance and treatment for non-essential health care is working on the ethical drive, we know that. But if doctors who take care of children without insurance offer assistance, they always risk being punished for the provision of services without financial coverage. It is necessary to act ethically and only in this manner, in accordance with the laws, and therefore the amendment to this Article 78 is more than necessary. I would like to point out that we are not only Members and Members of Parliament, but that they have literally called into this amendment both in the Association for the Rights of Sick Children and in the Association for the Civil Control of Public Health, in the Report of the Ombudsman and in the Advisory Centres. The advice itself, which was the fruit and result of such complaints and observations that took place on the ground and in the State Council, brought conclusions, so to speak, that the novel should be cut into this law. In this sense, I believe that there will be no major problems in this movement in the National Assembly. Many will say, as we have heard at the committee’s meetings, that other solutions need to be found, that not only are children here, that parents, mothers, and so on, and that the system, especially in self - employed people who cannot pay for such and other reasons, is unjust and that it creates new injustices. But these are questions that we cannot resolve in Article 1, as the Government itself has already said. In its project and its vision, the government has also drawn up such solutions. It has prepared a strategy, but what helps us when we are in the state we are in, and legislation in the field of strategy and overall vision, which is recorded all there by 2020, which cannot be implemented at this time. But we can do something that is not integrated, but it is extremely important, in the end it eliminates discrimination, defends the Constitution, the convention and drives us away with our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ms Mag. Andrei Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 10th regular meeting, on 13 October 2011, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted by the group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca Ravnikar, which gave an introductory explanation on behalf of the applicants. In doing so, she stressed that the existing Health and Health Insurance Act laid down in Article 15 the category of insurers we classify as 25. Article 20 provides that children shall be insured as family members of the insured under the conditions laid down in the law. On the basis of Article 78a in force, insurance undertakings and their family members shall retain their rights to health services and to compulsory health insurance benefits at the time when they do not have paid their contributions. Until then, only necessary treatments may be applied to compulsory health insurance. The purpose of that proposal is therefore to enable the full exercise of children's rights in the field of health under compulsory health insurance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained the following in writing the opinion and made comments on Articles 1 and 2 of the proposal. She pointed out that the basic purpose and purpose of the draft law was to regulate the protection of children's rights, as the bill stipulated that children were not deprived of their right to health care at a time when their family members did not have equal contributions to health insurance. It noted, however, that the provision of the proposed new second paragraph, if it was to be in the full interest of the children, should be supplemented by the rule under which rights are not retained, including, in addition to the right to health services, the right to payment of compulsory health insurance benefits. The representative of the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State, presented the Government's opinion and stressed that the Government supports the proposed law. The Ministry of Health is aware of this problem and supports any changes that could lead to its speedy solution. At the same time, the drafters of the law point out that the proposed third paragraph is wrong and unnecessary. The opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Mr Peter Požun and stressed that the Commission had considered the draft law at its 61st regular meeting and fully supported it. It calls on the proposers to clear up the text of the bill in the legislative procedure with amendments by qualified applicants and, in particular, to update the proposed third paragraph. A written opinion on the bill was also forwarded to the Committee by the Institute for Health Care of Slovenia. The meeting was attended by Director Sam Fakin, who presented the opinion and attached himself to the bill. In the debate, the members of the Committee agreed that the problem must be resolved, but it is certainly necessary to start reforms in the field of health and health insurance, which awaits the new government. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Health Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them in full. By including the amendments in the legislative proposal, he has thus set out the text of the amended bill, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. You have the floor, Dr. Ivan Ergen, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable members and members of the National Assembly! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the problems related to inadequate insurance solutions for individual categories of insured persons, as now defined in the Health and Health Insurance Act. These irregularities or difficulties in accessibility due to inadequate treatment of individual categories of insurers are no longer the only ones to which the group of Members has decided to intervene with the proposal for a new law. As a result, the Government has also supported the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Health in relation to health and health insurance reform processes. Unfortunately, there was not enough time for these changes that we have prepared to bring to this high assembly and to suggest that in the future you decide on them and allow better and fairer health insurance and adequate access to health insurance rights. Thus, we have no choice but to support it and we are pleased that this initiative has resulted in at least one group of insured persons, who, even as far as the spirit of the law itself is concerned, being treated inadequately, since we have written down in the law that all the rights enjoyed by children or adolescents up to the age of 18, are available free of charge without any extra charge. We all know that children and adolescents are also entitled to this, and this administrative prison that has been established is, in fact, unworthy of our system or our definition. We are definitely supporters of all solutions that allow equal and fair treatment of groups that are either more vulnerable because of their social situation or because of their characteristics. That is why we support this solution and propose to the National Assembly that this amendment, together with the amendments, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law before us solves the issue of the health care of children whose parents have this bad luck so that the legislator does not pay them social contributions. For these children, the issue is important and is becoming more and more topical in terms of our economic situation, but in terms of the overall and increasingly difficult problems of health care, it is only one stone in the mosaic, which is becoming increasingly severe. At the end of the year, the health treasury will have €55 million deficits, €18 million will be covered by its own reserves and €37 million will run out. As a result, payment deadlines will be extended, and hospitals and health care homes will be paid at an ever-increasing rate. The health treasury also predicts a lower share of the payment of certain health services. For dental prosthetics, emergency transports, intermediate leaves, glasses and the like will pay half as much as before. The burden of payment of health care is consistently passed on to supplementary health insurance and thus directly on the shoulders of insured persons. This has been happening more and more noticeably for many years. In 2006, we spent 2.4 billion euros on health care, and last year we spent 3.2 billion — 8.3% of gross social product in 2006 and 9% of GDP last year. In 2006, compulsory health insurance accounted for 80 % of these funds and last year only 70 %, the rest came from insurance pockets, 14 % from supplementary health insurance and 16 % from direct payments. From year to year, the health insurance situation is deteriorating dangerously, and we obviously do not have a heart for government policy in this area. First, Minister Miklavčič ensured that by the end of 2009 the National Assembly would adopt the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, and then the promise was made by the end of 2010, and Minister Marusič extended this promise until the end of 2011. Now he can plead for early elections, but that doesn't help us. The problem that should have been resolved long ago will be exacerbated in this time period and in the following year we can expect a 200 million-dollar loss of medical bills. In fact, there will be no loss because we will no longer be able to repay ourselves, but we will have stagnation and a decline in health care by firing employees, abolishing individual ambulances, closing down duty stations and hospital departments, in short, fewer health services. All of this will be genuine, confused, painful, because we should have long since rationalised health care, updated its management, adopted a rational basket of health rights, and redesigned supplementary health insurance. The Minister is aware of all of this and has promised all of this, both the former and the present. And you can't live from the promise itself. We also had bad luck in this mandate in the area of health. The law itself will be supported, even though it fixes a single stone in a coloured mosaic of health care, it is only provisional. A more lasting solution would be if employers were subject to strict discipline in paying social contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u40	Thank you. If I continue with my predecessor. It is true that this novel solves one stone, one part of the problem, not one stone, because when we talk about rights and respect for the Constitution, we are talking about difficult issues and the necessity of correcting them. However, it is also true that other approaches are needed and there was more solution to the question of how to deal with this non-payment and the possibility of integrated care for children. Among others, the one proposed by the Ombudsman, who in some ways speaks of universal and total protection or even automatic health insurance when talking about children. The number of people with no compulsory health insurance for at least a year has been increasing recently – since 2008, when we faced about a thousand 780 cases, there have been 100 more by the next year, and by the end of last year there were 4 000 860. They also have no official data on the causes, but it is true that more and more independent entrepreneurs are among the unprotected. I believe that the issues of non-discipline of payment, or even the possibility of forgiveness of non-payment of contributions, as now contained in the law, which, by the way, solves or eliminates the law applied in the State Council, which deletes the article, give the possibility for the Health Insurance Office to cancel contributions to health insurance in certain cases. This is also a path that will try to remedy the existing situation. Undoubtedly, we are trying to repair what everyone has recommended, what we ourselves know to ensure that children do not share the fate of their parents or that they must always be fully protected, and that they must be available to children and adolescents for all health care not only necessary. As I said before, practice has pointed to aids where health workers have helped with ethical drive and proper conduct. They were illegal, they got into trouble many times, and this simply should not be allowed to do anything black, even if it is good, because if they have already accepted what is more than necessary health care, there have been difficulties in writing prescriptions. A change means that we respect not only our marital, constitutional duties, but that we also properly and properly care for children and minors. The question of how to remedy other cases arising from the fact that the contributions are not settled is that they are being resolved elsewhere, today it is promised by a number of people who say that in the future, if these contributions are not paid, people will be deleted from the register of this space or just expelled, and certainly very punished. Accessions can vary here when it has already been said and I repeat that in the state world, one system already offers a solution and all those who care about it, especially for healthy society, will undoubtedly know how to find answers for everyone else and not just for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposal for a law that will allow for the full exercise of children's rights in the field of health. In addition to basic treatment, treatment should include other health care services, as well as compulsory health insurance health care and the right to monetary benefits, irrespective of whether the contributions are paid by the employer or by the debtor under whom the children are insured. In doing so, we point out that we should not only regulate changes to children, stepchildren, brothers, sisters, and children without parents, but also to other immediate and extended family members referred to in article 20 as family members of the insured person who live with the insured person in the common household. The Ministry of Health is a similar solution, as we are aware, already envisaged in the context of the preparation of health legislation based on the document Upgrade of the Health System by 2020. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party would like to point out in the debate on this law that when seeking solutions, it is necessary to take into account the fact that a large part of the insurers referred to in Article 78a who cannot pay their obligations, such as independent entrepreneurs, have not found themselves in trouble by their own fault. In most cases, they became victims of poor economic conditions, lost their jobs, and sought solutions for self-employment. They found themselves in a vicious circle, for sudden and solvable for them is not an easy situation to solve. Members of the SLS believe that the proposal for a second reading law will be adopted, as it is also supported by the Association for the Rights of Sick Children, the Association for the Civil Health of Public Health, the Council of State and the Government. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the solution to the problem of child protection, bearing in mind that one of the first and most urgent measures is a new parliamentary call, the rapid preparation and adoption of measures to stabilise the health register, as well as pension and social policy measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Mag will present the position. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Although it was at the beginning of this mandate that we wanted to come up with a new reform of the health system, unfortunately we did not succeed. We can see that there are many problems in this regard, and perhaps today — just before laborers — a bitter taste when we say good - bye and have to admit that we have failed again. That is why I am extremely pleased, even though just before fruit trees, that without any other taste, this point of the applicants is placed on the agenda and this proposal is adopted by law. The proposal speaks of the most vulnerable group of the Slovenian population – children. I don't think there will be any of us who won't support it. I will not repeat what this law brings, I will not talk about it, but it has been supported by the Committee on Health of our National Assembly, supported by the Government and unanimously supported by the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the adoption of the Bill of Amendments and Complements of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is only the passing of sand in the eyes or the sweetening of pre-election candy and the knocking of conscience on the poorest and weakest voters. The legislator should, in the first place, systematically address irregularities and illogical misregulations rather than violate the decaying system, full anomaly and contradiction. If I go back specifically to the bill, I can say the following: the Constitution and the legislation in force already allow all those who need urgent assistance to be children or adults. All those in need of such assistance are entitled to medical treatment whether they are insured or not. I therefore wonder what the purpose of adopting the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is and what health care is essential, especially when we are talking about children. When it comes to health problems, I believe that every visit to a child with scarecrows to a doctor is in some way a search for emergency medical attention. Parents don't go to a doctor with their children because they don't know what to do or because they're bored. Kids aren't stimulants. When we have to adopt one such additional amendment of the law in children, this actually seems to me to be the pro-election intention of the proposer, and I don't want the proposalr to blame me, I don't mean anything bad. First of all, we should consider what needs to be done in order to permanently eliminate inconsistencies in the non-conformity of contributions, in order to recover outstanding contributions, or in order to sharpen the growing payment discipline. There is no way we can solve the problem only with cosmetic adjustments if we do not fully and consistently reach into a system that we have to say is bad, if not very bad. I wonder why the system does not already comply with the provisions of the Constitution, which, as the highest legal act of the modern state, is intended to guarantee, inter alia, the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, which is, in the first place, the right to health and social protection. Article 50, paragraph 2, of the Constitution states: "The State shall regulate compulsory health, pension, disability and other social security and shall take care of their functioning." The first paragraph of Article 51 of the Constitution states: "Everyone has the right to health care." What laws should be adopted? Why should Members now take the right to adopt additional laws if this allows us citizens to do so already in the Constitution? Perhaps we should consider what is wrong with our country, not to protect or enforce what is enshrined in its basic charter, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Thank you very much, President. A friendly greeting to the Secretary of State! When a person cannot do everything in life, it is good to correct or at least do what he can. Of course, the health system is a wide story. A similar broad story is the pension system that we have touched, and we have not been successful. In this country, we need to be aware of the simple fact that we can share what we pay in pension and medical bills. The latter must be those children who feel financial embarrassment — both health care and other cashiers. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree with the reflection of the applicants. We were also one of the signatories. If it is the will of all to do the matter before the discharge, then of course it is not and there will be no thanks to the applicants, not the thanks of the signatories, but it is the thanks of all of us who will press the button to adopt such a law. I am sure that it is only a few hours before the vote that we all have this opportunity and an opportunity for a positive message for the benefit of the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Thank you very much. On behalf of the unrelated Members, Mr Andrej Magajna will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u50	Your Honor! We will, of course, support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance in the Group of Non-Related Members. We join all those who advocate the principle of universal health and non-discriminatory treatment of children. If they had not done so, they would in fact again have a category of children who would otherwise have received those basic health care, not what the other children were receiving. This eliminates this non-discrimination, although, as the Secretary-General of the Ministry has already pointed out, we have not covered all the categories. Another note. For three years, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour have not resolved the issues of non-payments, which has long been regulated in our neighbouring countries, and this cannot be at all. It is interesting that this could not be settled in three years, although many of us have been alerting this in Parliament for the first year. In many documents, client programs put the principle of the universal health system first or foremost. We also seem to have different interpretations of what this means, although there should not be so many different interpretations. This novel or amendment is a contribution to remedy this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič, who will present her position on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, I am merely informing you that this time it is a direct vote and that there are no amendments. We will draw closer to the vote after this position. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The existing health system in Slovenia is urgently needed for reconstruction due to changed circumstances, mistakes and shortcomings in the functioning of the system. This fact has been further exposed by the economic crisis, which has shown shortcomings affecting the exercise of health and health insurance benefits, particularly in the provision of child health care. In practice, children of insured persons who are not compensated by the employer for contributions to compulsory health insurance cannot obtain medical care unless in urgent cases. It is true that, at the starting point, there should be no circumvention and the obligation to pay health insurance contributions, which is often the result of poor economic conditions in which individual insurers, in particular independent entrepreneurs, are not found guilty and therefore have limited access to health services by them and by family members who are insured by them. However, with the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which we adopt after a reduced procedure, we cannot solve this problem, which would also have an unsuspecting financial impact, at least EUR 10 million. However, a comprehensive reform of the system has been written down, namely in the material already dealt with by the Government, the upgrade of the health system by 2020 prepared by the Ministry of Health. It sets out the legal solutions by which, in the event of non-payment of the contribution, beneficiaries would exercise the right to health services and compulsory health insurance benefits to all family members of the insured person. We can only hope that such solutions, as recorded in the document, will be adopted by the next government. Social Democrats believe that the legislation that violates children's constitutional rights must be amended without delay. We have therefore also signed a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which aims to enable the full exercise of children's rights in the field of health in the field of compulsory health insurance. The draft law provides that children are not deprived of their right to health care at a time when their family members do not have paid their dues. Our country has also committed itself to the protection of children's rights through the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the basis of which we must all strive to ensure that children have the highest attainable level of health and services provided by the health system. Why do the Social Democrats feel that the proposed amendment should be adopted in addition? Firstly, children cannot influence the fulfilment of the statutory obligations of employers, even though they are their parents under whom they are insured. Secondly, children do not have the possibility of insurance as a specific category of beneficiaries. Thirdly, it is also necessary to mention unequal access to the health of children or to health services provided by existing legislation. Some children already have access to all health services on the basis of the existing law, irrespective of the payment of their contribution, provided that they are educated, while others, today, do not. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that, irrespective of the upcoming comprehensive legal changes in healthcare and health insurance, children's rights must be addressed without delay. The high support for the proposed amendments to the law was also demonstrated when the material was examined by the Health Committee, through which we adopted amendments to improve the content of the proposed provisions. It seems that no one will oppose the proposed law, which can only please us. We all agree that our children are our future and only by caring for their health can we expect them to develop and realize their potential. Therefore, as has already been said, we also promise our support for the law to the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Before voting, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members are present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency by means of a proposal for a decision. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Dear Mr. President! If you have already forced all these points to be dealt with, we have before us a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a director. I haven't had time to read this in all the crowd we've had. But don't you think it's worth someone telling us that this is a government proposal? I don't know. I'm asking. If this is a government proposal, if it were my proposal, I would say that my proposal is for it and for it. I request or make a procedural proposal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party to request government representatives to come forward and present their proposal. Please put a procedural motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u55	Mr Bogdan Barovic, do you suggest that we vote on this in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u56	Dear Mr President, as you say. At that time, you're a better know-it-all, I have to tell you, you've been running very well, even though you've had 100 days not even peace, but working hard, and if that's what you said, then so be it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u57	I understand that we are putting the procedural proposal to a vote and that the representative of the Government or the proposer must provide an additional explanation for this proposal. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 33 members or Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 33.]] The proposal is not accepted. We continue and give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Jakob Preseknik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He's quitting. I give the floor to Mr Ivan Grill to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. We are also protesting in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government did not wish or did not wish to present this proposal, as there was no government representative at today's urgent meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission where further clarifications could be given on the proposed candidate. This points to something that has obviously not happened in Slovenia, but now it is becoming practice before the end of the mandate. Only a few hours will separate us when the President of the Republic disbands the National Assembly and just a few hours before the National Assembly in this composition is dissolved. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its coalition, formal and informal, are deploying people to key positions. You want to use the final hours of your commitment to place people in the responsible positions of your mind. In doing so, you do not take into account that such behaviour is unhygienic, that it is contrary to democratic principles and most worrying that it is also contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was voted non-confidential on 20 September, has lost certain powers under the Constitution and laws and should only carry out ongoing operations. During the current course of business, it certainly does not include the recruitment of key positions. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not respect its limited powers and violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, while in the coalition, both formal and informal, you help it. Similar things are happening today when the Director of the Agency for Insurance and Control is confirmed. Although the Government no longer has powers, it appointed a new person to this position and sent this proposal for confirmation to the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that this process be allowed to be decided by the next government and the next call by the National Assembly, and our proposal by the coalition has been rejected. With this, the ruling coalition assumes full responsibility if Mr Simoniti's confirmation has been annulled in the event of a complaint before a court of law. This will leave him with an ungrateful mark in his future career, and of course he will not be to blame. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not define ourselves according to its professional competences, but we strongly oppose such a mode of recruitment just a few hours before discharge. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we propose that you do so in other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, if I may ask you to pay a little more attention to the one who represents the position or who creates it. Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Melita Zupevec. He's quitting. Mr. Matjaz Han. He's quitting. Mr. Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I've been thinking about quitting myself, but when I'm listening to arguments about why I should reject the government's proposal, of course I have to answer. Additional arguments from the Government intended to underpin this proposal would certainly not rest with those who voted against the Commission's mandate and those who would vote against the Council of State. However, let me say that there were in fact no additional requirements for additional arguments on the Commission's terms of reference, perhaps because there was no representative of the Government. However, I must say that the meeting of the Commission was held in such a way that we had a regular meeting first, and after that we had an extraordinary session to discuss this proposal. The government and the competent minister with the co-workers are very difficult to plan work in this case, and so it has been this time. It is not a matter of evading, but we now have a secretary of state here between us, but there have been no real calls for further arguments, even though they would not have been taken into account, we know this in advance. But when someone says that the candidacy will not be supported by protecting the candidate, and then that sounds like it, I won't use the term, because the candidate is actually good, we have nothing against him, but because the Government, which is running the current business, and because this is the end of the mandate, it is inappropriate for us to confirm this candidate. This, of course, is not a valid argument; the correct argument would be disagreement with the candidate because it does not meet the professional criteria or anything similar. Inappropriate to the candidate you want to protect in some way at the same time is to place him in mental or any other framework. The appointment procedure takes some time and did not start at that time as you state, but the procedure was ongoing. We are in a position to make a decision at a meeting of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has full powers and operates normally, takes decisions, on the contrary, it is obliged to take decisions, in particular those on time, which must be done, and these are our powers, which we must actually exercise. This is now at the end of the mandate, and at the beginning and in the middle of the mandate it is not important at all. It is important that this is when it is in accordance with the legislation which prescribes mandates. This is similar, respected colleagues and colleagues, as if they were to say that the goal in football in the extension is not valid. It's all right. It's all right. And sometimes he takes all three points. This is also the case with the vote in the National Assembly. As long as the National Assembly has a mandate, it must carry out this mandate, whether we like it or not. We are obliged to do so, the Mandate-Election Commission has drawn up a proposal and the National Assembly must decide on this proposal, given that an extended meeting with this agenda item. I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The previous performance sounded, "we owe," according to locals, sometimes they say "must just die", but if circumstances are strange, then it is better to ask and sometimes to stop. When I look at this proposal from the government, I find that the invitation was 10. 6. 2011 and that the Insurance Supervisory Agency is 31. 8. 2011 carried out the procedure for determining professional competence, the last test, and then you carried out those procedures. The proposal comes to the table last minute before 12:00. In fact, I have to say that the victim is probably a candidate that you didn't want to give to the National Assembly in due course and in normal times. But now that your system's broken down, when we've experienced an implosion of this left-wing system, you're putting it on because it's a less bad solution than you've probably planned and tacted. This call would probably be cancelled if your mandate were to continue. It has an insurance agency and should have more weight. The insurance companies are in some way connected to the banking system, and both systems are not healthy. In the past, we have had a lot of irregularities in insurance, an affair that has been suppressed, because insurance companies are well-standing companies, because commentants are constantly paying for risks and that is why some insurance bosses are big bosses. And the country didn't have what insurance companies were supposed to have. Now, it is said that the former director of the Mutual Mr Marko Jaklič – we know what the affairs and will were, with that money he probably built this black construction, I don't know how many millions of euros is worth, and then Jankovic put it on Lekarne Ljubljana, where he was again preparing black privatisation – on Mr Janković's ministerial team. These are the very troubled people we would consider ministers, and you are quietly and calmly looking and approving. Until such things are cleared up, and as long as there are so many problems in insurance, problems in the sense of working under the table, state money is being drained, we hear a whole bunch of things about the insurance company Triglav and the Director's aspirations, which according to our information has practically already fallen through the rails of Nade Klemenčič, we need to think carefully and have the opportunity to do so. I don't know Mr. Candidate either. I see that he was already the Director of the Legal Service in the first service, so he probably had good connections from this point of view all the time, but in this way it is impossible to fill such responsible places in such a state in insurance companies. Make sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Dusan Kumr. He's quitting. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Sergei Simoniti as Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Position occurs with 1. 1. 2012. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I shall then open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rudolf Petan will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Our opinion is as it has already been announced. We believe that this point is not suitable for consideration, but if you force it, then, of course, we will not support this proposal. But I'd like to say the following. If the candidate fulfils all the formal conditions, including the professional conditions, then he must vote. Of course, it is not that simple, but another question is asked here, whether the proposer, as the Government says, has all the professional qualifications to propose such a proposal. This is not a proposal for running a pastry shop, this is a proposal for managing insurance supervision, and this is the first insurance supervisor. Insurance companies are part of the financial system, and the financial system in Slovenia is currently in a situation like it has never been before, and it would be difficult to find such a comparison anywhere. Of course, some are worse, but it is not good to compare with others. The fact is, this government does business only. Why did I say, "if the government has all the professional grounds to suggest it"? Because the government doesn't even know what running business is, that's the problem. So if the government doesn't even know what the current business is, how can they propose such an important function for six years? No one here today spoke of a name, no one, and I don't think of it at all. But it's other things that are more important. At the moment, the government does not have all the professional qualifications and grounds to propose such an important human resources proposal and it is very frightening how the Government currently employs people long and long and fast. Why is it not necessary that she herself does not know whether she has all the appropriate qualifications for this, given that she has limited opportunities for substantive work and that she does not even know whether she should come to Parliament or not? In this case, we have a government representative, that's true, but at other points, and also at the point where the government was answering Members' questions, there was such a bad occupation that we got the feeling that the government really didn't know whether it had to come to Parliament or not. It is therefore very irresponsible for him to come to Parliament at this time with such a proposal. We will, of course, oppose such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have completed our explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? He doesn't want to. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 1]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Good evening! Today we are going to vote on one matter, which is called "government intervention and extension of a person who is very questionable" if I say gently. Other candidates are fine, but me and the Slovenian National Party are not at all charged with being a candidate under the number 13 of Dr Gregor Jurak. Some information about this gentleman: by the Ljubljana Police Administration, the Criminal Police Sector of 12. 6. 2009 has filed an appeal against Gregor Jurak for a criminal offence of abuse of the official position under Article 261 fourth and third paragraphs of the Penal Code. It is all right, however, that the Minister for Education and Sport has proposed it and is proposing it further. Secondly, warnings were sent to the National Assembly by the Ministry responsible for sport about the illegal conduct of the then Director Gregor Jurak and the illegal payments for his work to his personal company, the illegal conduct of that Director and the illegal payments of the prizes for his work. The Anti-Corruption Commission found illegal payments for his work at the expense of his company by the Sport Foundation, where he was the director. The Court of Auditors found illegal payments of awards for his work. The enterprise carried out by this gentleman through the Sport, Child and Youth Union with activities at the Faculty of Sport, where he was employed and also here, is also without legal basis. However, Mr Lukšič considers that this gentleman is suitable and has proposed him to the position of the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport, for one of the three candidates. One wonders what the Ministry of Education is up to. Do we really have to push our friends everywhere? Do those for whom it does not matter whether they are accused, convicted in court, and so on — these people will continue to do their strange work peacefully. Of course, Mr Luksic is behind this. Despite the fact that the Ministry has been repeatedly warned by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Court of Auditors, the Sport Foundation as a police administration, Mr Luksic, and it does not matter what he does, the main thing is that it is ours to get him to this post at the last minute. I am almost sure that the coalition will vote in favour of this candidate and support him, but I think it will have to be launched – I hope that some other constellation will lead the country so that the pigs will no longer be possible, that those coalition gentlemen who supported the various frauds will be punished and called to account, whether they are former ministers or former Members or something like that. I don't think we can support something like this. The fact is that he is voting in the set for everything together, and that's exactly what Mr Lukšič meant to say in this set: "Well, well, the others are fine, somehow they will." He won't! Because it has been said for three years that somehow it will be, the country is in this state, and we cannot at least confirm it now. We will vote against it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will vote as always – each in accordance with our conscience and conviction. The fact is, there are quite a few thoughts on the scale. On the one hand, we have received calls from some citizens and mayors from various political options, that the Sports Foundation shares important funds and that it would not be right if the procedures to be launched and signed towards the end of the year are not completed at the beginning of the year, because many investments are needed for funding and in various Slovenian municipalities are waiting for very necessary co-investors. On the other hand, when we talk about candidates, names and procedures, it would certainly be better if we decided on each candidate individually. We are also convinced that the Slovenian sports scene overcomes a large number of different names and that any candidate who storms and disturbs could be replaced by a number of sports workers who know the field and have earned it in the past. I would also like to point out that, as far as Slovenian sport is concerned, we must see that all organisations and all spheres are represented. From the field of sport and recreation of all citizens and citizens, we may also have overlooked the so-called Sport Union of Slovenia. The Sports Union brings together 75,000 recreationals and recreationals. We also run a number of projects dedicated to young people, the youngest and bring together sports of all generations. It is important to consider why, for example, there is no representative of an organization such as the Sport Union, which is overrun by large membership. The dilemma is quite something, and as always, we will make a decision, each with our own vision of problems and things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you again very much for your word. Even in this item of the agenda, when you appoint a new membership of the Sports Foundation Council, you have demonstrated in the coalition that you want to put your people in positions of responsibility during the last days before the dissolution of the National Assembly. There is no need for a new composition of the Sports Foundation Council to be set up just before the end of the term of office of the Government and the National Assembly. In the National Assembly we received a notice from the Sports Foundation that there were 11. 10. In the existing composition, the urgently needed work has been done from calls to the adoption of the financial plan, which ensures that everything goes smoothly in advance as well. Any excuses that a new composition should be adopted in order for the work to take place immediately are not justified. This membership, which is today being adopted, proposed by the Government a person who is morally more than controversial. This is Mr Jurak, for whom the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has identified elements of corruption in its opinion. The Court of Auditors also found irregularities. Mr Jurak, when he was Director of the Sports Foundation, illegally paid more than 10,000 euros to his company. And after the investigation, the police also filed an indictment with the D.A. On the basis of its competence, however, the Prosecutor rejected the complaint on the grounds that there was no intention to do so. Whether such rejection of an accusation is proud of the rule of law, let each judge for himself. Mr Jurak was once again proposed by the Government and Mr Luksic in a new proposal for the Sport Foundation Council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are strongly protesting such proposals and will vote against them. As I have already said here, let us once again point out that the existing composition of the world has all the necessary powers to carry out its function forward and there are no excuses for rushing to appoint a new composition of the world, because everything that needs to be done in this area can be done by the existing world. It would be hygienic if the National Assembly in its next composition re-evaluated those candidates who are eligible for this position and decided to do so. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, everyone, welcome! Given that I am firmly convinced and that no shadow of any appointment or group of candidates or individuals should fall on any of the appointments, we will therefore vote against this proposal. There's another reason. It is our belief that the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for some kind of usurpation of certain institutions in the field of sport in these appointment procedures. Because of this, as I said in the introduction, we will vote against this proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Melita Zupevec. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Matjaz Han. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Bojan Kontic. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Ivan Grill. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Dushan Kumer. [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. What group wants to explain its voice? Procedurally, please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Given that we voted by name on each candidate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I would suggest that the National Assembly, today or now, decides on each candidate individually and not in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Mr. Grill, I would like to remind you that we have a proposal that has been submitted to us by the Mandate-Volution Commission. This proposal contains a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Only this proposal can be voted on, not the other. Of course, we can be in favour or against and then possibly force another conclusion. We only have one, and that's all we can vote on. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I am applying for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Sign up, please. Mr Bogdan Barovic on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Otherwise, the President, Mr Victory Jelinčič, said what our position was. But we don't think so, and these are your words from yesterday, your political options that because of some of the facts we have to for one of the members – and these facts are facts, they are not supposed to – are to vote in a package and therefore exclude some others who are probably already entitled to become members of this foundation. That's the first time. That is why it is now difficult for us to vote against everything. Secondly, given that we have a large constitution and a small constitution called the Rules of Procedure, I would be very happy, and this is not a burden on you now – but how is it possible for the Commission to decide in one way, on each and today on all of them? Are we really out of our minds? If the Commission voted on each individual, it would be fair for us to vote on each individual today, or this is as if the Commission voted on all of them together, but today we would be asked to vote on each individual or to vote on each individual. The simple logic that I, I'm sorry, I really don't understand. The decision on the Commission shall be equivalent. However, if we were to reject it on the Commission, for example, today would be like when we should not have decided on the 1st item on the Transport Act, we could have said our own, but the Commission rejected it. If the commission had said no in any way, we shouldn't be deciding again today. So these things are, excuse me, a little weird, Mr. President. I don't want to discredit 5, 6, 7 people for one reason, I don't say conjecture, but for one person whose facts are. You must understand me, Mr Vice-President, I do not wish to interfere, but the Slovenian National Party will, if you introduce a group vote, say no and fail, if such will is to be done, a system of all people, among whom I believe that they are very capable and desirable in this foundation. So I really don't think it's fair that the Commission is voting for an individual and we are voting for it. Even if a person does not want to, he has to think that something strange is happening, and that is why I apologize to all those whom we consider to be good candidates, but to thank those who have made such a proposal that we will reject everything – at least as far as the Slovenian National Party is concerned – because of some facts about one person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. I can't do anything but repeat a decision that follows a business solution. The proposal is made and we must vote on the proposal; we have no possibility of modifying the proposal ourselves. Mr. Grill, please. Procedural or explanatory? Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u79	In my own name. Just one moment. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Mr. Grill, please, in your personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will vote against such a proposal for two reasons. Firstly, because there is also Mr Jurak in this package, whose documents show that he is more than morally contentious. The second reason, however, is that this letter, which we received from the Sports Foundation in the National Assembly, informing us that the World of the Sport Foundation, is an existing one that manages and carries out all functions to carry out all legal acts of a specific task. At its regular meeting on 11 October 2011, the Council of the Foundation adopted a financial and work plan and a call for a fund-raising fund for 2012. He also appointed appropriate working bodies and commissions to take care of the implementation of all publications and public procurement tasks. The opening, evaluation and analysis of applications is expected to take place by 20. 12. 2011 and their financial valuation by allocating funds will be carried out by 5. 2. 2012. This means that there is no need to call today the new composition of the Sports Foundation or the Sports Foundation Council, especially because it is more than a morally challenged person. Therefore, as I have said, I will not support this proposal alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their personal name? He doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate and the explanation of vote. We move to a vote on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 31 votes in favour, 22 against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We turn to point C, this is the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility due to suspicion of involvement in the financing of disputed management acquisitions and lack of takeover legislation The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving to point C, this is the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility in the preparation and implementation of construction investments in the area of the construction of motorways and economic infrastructures financed by the State budget. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 53 of whom voted in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving to point D, this is to consider the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility in the preparation and implementation of certain projects of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the University of Primorska and public health facilities financed from the National or Budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u82	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the core. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Patrio case. The proposal for a decision was forwarded to the Council by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I'm closing this agenda item. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Today's 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is probably the last session of the fifth session before the elections and before the constitution of the newly elected National Assembly. So let me say a few words of thanks on this occasion. Much work has been done in this mandate, which has not always been easy. The expiry of the mandate was marked by a wide range of work and decisions and, to the greatest extent, by the global, financial, economic crisis and the search for and finding a way out of the global, financial and economic crisis. It was also marked by the 20th anniversary of a number of events that had a significant impact on the development and progress of Slovenia's independence process and the development of Slovenian parliamentary democracy and allowed us to grow from nation to nation. For a short time, I took over the leadership of the National Assembly from the successful predecessor of Dr. Paul Gantar, during an extremely lively period marked by a restless political atmosphere and troubled and tense economic circumstances. Nevertheless, I kept trying to carry out a trusted function faithfully, responsible to the best of my ability and always as the first of the same. I am sure that my work without your support and without the support of my colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly would be significantly more difficult. Therefore, allow me to express my warm and sincere thanks to all fellow Members, my fellow Members, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the representatives and representatives of the Government, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, all co-workers and members of the services of the National Assembly, all institutions and individuals, including civil society, as well as representatives and representatives of the media. I wish you all well and to remain friends and forget about some, sometimes even a harsh or more unkind word. I hereby conclude the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Happy and happy, wherever our next life course leads. Colleagues and colleagues, at the end of the 5th term of the National Assembly, I invite all Members and Members to take group photos. I invite you to gather in a circle around the pay phone as the photo shoot will take place from the balcony. Let this photograph be a good memory of the work done and spend time in the National Assembly. All those who monitor our work, either with a camera, camera or keyboard, thank you very much. [[Applause]] The meeting was closed on 20 October 2011 at 4.28 p.m.
