ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Anton Anderlič, Miran Györek, Anton Kampuš, Franz Bogovič, Villa Trofenik and Zvonko Lah. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CROSS LAW, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Nicely greeted! Allow me to present to you in the gravest of terms the contents of the Law on Offences. This is the seventh novel since this law was passed in 2005. This novel covers about one fifth of the legal provisions. The changes that this novel brings can be divided into three sets of contents. The first set of issues, or solutions, which have been discussed by the profession for a long time and over this long-standing debate and judicial practice have now matured to the changes that this novelty brings. These include, in particular, a new regime for the liability of legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and individuals acting independently and their responsible persons for the offence. Another such refinement of the existing regulation is a more precise procedural distinction between the infringement procedure and the criminal procedure. And the third such thing is to redefine responsibility for the offence of foreign persons enjoying immunity under international law. The second substance set of amendments concerns the provision of greater legal certainty for the parties in the infringement proceedings. In this context, let me mention the consistent exercise of the right to a declaration in a swift proceeding, the introduction of the possibility of an appeal by the criminal authority against a judgment by which the court amended the decision of the criminal authority in favour of the offender, the introduction of a new exceptional remedy, which is called the abolition or amendment of a decision on the proposal of the criminal authority, which follows in particular the discharge of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court of Justice of those cases which do not constitute important legal questions, but is a matter of easier infringement and more uniform case law in criminal proceedings, which we are pursuing and we wish to exercise by establishing one local and actual jurisdiction of the court to decide all appeals against violations rather than the previous four higher courts. The third set of cases relates to the harmonisation of this Law on Offences, which is a system law on offences, with new solutions in the field of public procurement and transport legislation. In the context of public procurement, it is a matter of sanctioning the exclusion from the public procurement procedure, which is now systematically regulated in the Law on Offences, and in relation to transport legislation, it is primarily the institutions introduced by the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Drivers Act, i.e. the Institute for the Temporary Withdrawal of Drivers and the Institute for the Procedural Enforcement of the Endorsement of Driving Licence. If I mention very briefly the most important institutes that are newly established in this novel, the Institute for the Temporary Withdrawal of Driver's License is first of all. This is an institute designed to immediately identify the most dangerous drivers from road transport. It will be useful in the case of only the worst infringements, i.e. the worst violations of the rules on speed of driving, infringement of the rules on driving under the influence of alcohol or on driving in the opposite direction from the authorised motorway. With this we want to increase safety on Slovenian roads. It will also be possible to sanction the return of the worst offences against traffic more severely. This means that for those violators who repeat such worst-case infringements, a longer lateral penalty of driving ban will be imposed, not only from one month to one year, but from three months to two years. However, not only does the law impose greater repression but it also introduces provisions aimed at establishing prevention. The main institute in the field of prevention is the postponement of the expiry of the driving licence. This is an institution by which the court will give the offender the possibility that the termination of the driving licence will not take effect immediately, but will be postponed if such an offender is willing to subject himself to a certain, if I may say so, treatment. In particular, it is training for safe driving in cases of speed overruns or infringements related to speed overruns and participation in the rehabilitation programme for the separation of dependence on alcohol or drugs when the offender commits the offence under the influence of alcohol or drugs. So, the law that is before you brings so certain repressive measures to ensure greater security as well as measures that provide prevention or eliminate the causes of danger and traffic accidents on our roads. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered this law at its 26th meeting, on 13 January, the proposaler is the Government. We had the following materials: the law itself, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and the opinion of the Council of Justice. I will not repeat Mr Škrlec's words because he has explained them thoroughly now, he has also presented them on the committee, so I do not think he will mind me if I keep going. The Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Špela Macek Gustin, at the presentation of their written opinion, said that most of their comments were taken into account in the amendments to the coalition and further explained that the amendments proposed by the Committee to the amendment by 53rd, 61st also eliminate the inequality between the perpetrators of traffic offences with the criminal points. The Council of State or their representative, Mr Vnučec, has upheld the law. The Committee then adopted the amendments to Articles 19, 26, 35, 53, 53 and 62 and did not vote on the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 61. This article has become irrelevant. Otherwise, the Committee also adopted its amendments to the Committee’s Articles 40, 41, 42, 50, 53, 61 and 62, and adopted and adopted an integral text of the proposed law. However, all of this is, of course, an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Undoubtedly, criminal law is one of the most important parts of the relationship between an individual on the one hand and a country, legal and institutionalised repression on the other, particularly the frequency of an individual’s encounter with him. As a result, there is an urgent need for greater attention to be paid to the amendment and modification of the institutions of criminal law or to the change of criminal policy in general. The solutions that have been drawn up, together with the comments already made on the home committee, are completely acceptable to us Members of the DeSUS and, of course, we will support them. We support solutions that represent and relate to faster, simpler and more effective criminal proceedings; to a more precise distinction between criminal law and criminal law, which in practice has often been a major problem and to the referral of cases from one criminal authority to the judicial authorities, to the immunity of foreigners in our country under international law, to the procedure of the authorities with regard to remedies in this proceeding. We are particularly pleased that the competent ministries are constantly trying to find appropriate, correct and effective measures regarding the reduction of the number of dead on our roads or the effective and legally permissible removal of dangerous drivers. The Ministry proposed the rehabilitation of the institution of withdrawal of the driver's licence. Although it is now possible for certain offences to be temporarily withdrawn, it is only for a period of 24 hours. The proposal, however, is aimed at sharpening this measure by proposing the immediate suspension of the driving licence in the event of the most serious infringements of the rules on speed of driving, infringements under the influence of alcohol or illicit drugs by driving in the opposite direction from the authorised motorway. We also fully agree with the stricter sanctioning of the most dangerous returnees. On Slovenian highways, it is possible to track a number of breaches of safe driving which have no connection to common sense. And we are pleased that the Government has addressed these issues recently with the adopted package of transport legislation. With this amendment of the Offences Act, sanctions for these acts will be even more severe, in our view, entirely justified. For this reason, we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the DeSUS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u8	Dear Mr. President, the honourable one is here! The second most extensive novel of the Offences Act is in the process of adoption. The substantive changes are extensive and represent the introduction of a new foreign sanction, a change in the substantive and legal basis, the responsibility of legal and responsible persons, the introduction of two new procedural institutions in road traffic offences, the introduction of two new remedies and the extension of the formal trial in the process, the request for judicial protection and the addition of legal provisions that ensure the contradiction of the procedure. According to the proposaler, the topical novelty is due to problems that have emerged in practice. These are, in particular, frequent infringements in the field of public procurement, which compensate for financial and budgetary resources and inadequate road safety. We welcome the introduction of new sanctions and exclusions from public procurement procedures in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. The introduction of new sanctions into the Offences Act also provides for the protection of both public interest and the interest of contracting authorities in procurement procedures. It is particularly important that the sanctions in question are defined as a party and may be imposed in addition to and not at the site of the main sanction for an offence. With regard to the basis for determining the liability of legal persons and legal persons responsible, it is welcome to amend the regime in particular in the sense of abandonment of compulsory supervision, which in practice predominates as a form of offence service. The practice has also made clear the difficulties with the procedure for identifying responsible persons. Road traffic violations have proved difficult when the perpetrators are returnees. I therefore welcome the possibility of immediate action in the event of repeated dangerous infringements and the immediate elimination of dangerous drivers from transport. It is also proposed to extend the duration of the ban on motor vehicles for returnees. Legal remedies under the Law on Offences are limited, but we do not support the introduction of a new exceptional remedy within the Slovenian National Party's Group. In view of the fact that offences are easier to commit and the procedures for exceptional remedies are rare, we see no point in introducing a new remedy, since the legal protection requirement so far is fully following the purpose of an extraordinary remedy. Moreover, in our view, the very definition of when a new remedy would be used is disputed. It's about cases where the violation is obvious. However, practice has shown how problematic such broad legal concepts can be, whose content is assessed in a particular case by a particular individual. The proposed novel, as I said in the introduction, is extremely extensive. Certain amendments are welcome and some are extremely opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences is the seventh novel since the entry into force of the Law on Offences of 1.1. 2005. The fundamental objectives of the amendments can be summed up into three sets. Firstly, it is more appropriate to deal with those issues on which the profession has debated for a long time and has also matured with judicial practice for a change, which is mainly applicable to the new regulation of the liability of legal persons of independent entrepreneurs, individuals and individuals who carry out activities independently, as well as their responsible persons for offences, a more precise procedural distinction between criminal and criminal proceedings and a reordering of responsibility for offences committed by foreign persons enjoying immunity under international law. Greater legal certainty of the parties in the infringement proceedings is ensured, in particular with regard to the consistent exercise of the rights to a declaration of swift procedure, the introduction of the possibility of a criminal body's appeal against a judgment by which the court changed its decision in favour of the offender, the introduction of a new extraordinary remedy, the abolition or amendment of a decision on the proposal of the criminal authority, which partially relieves the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court of Justice because it is a matter of remedying obvious errors in the proceedings, but not of resolving more difficult legal issues. And to ensure uniform case law in the case of offences by establishing the exclusive jurisdiction of a single higher court for offences rather than the previous four. The third set concerns the alignment with public procurement legislation, which introduced a new foreign sanction, the exclusion from the procurement procedure. And new transport legislation already adopted by the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Drivers Act. In particular, the institute of temporary withdrawal of the driving licence and the institution of suspension, enforcement and termination of the driving licence shall be the point of reference with those laws. The latter in relation to the programme of additional training for safe driving and rehabilitation programmes to help address the causes of traffic offenders, accidents and their consequences. The most important innovations in the bill are: the introduction of a new aside penalty for exclusion from the procurement procedure, which will be imposed in addition to a fine of three or five years from the legality of the offence decision. The rules governing the conduct of infringement proceedings and the imposition of sanctions for offences shall be amended if the offence is committed by a foreigner who enjoys immunity in the Republic of Slovenia under international law. After the entry into force of the novel, the Act will have its own provisions, responsibilities and legal persons of independent entrepreneurs of individuals or individuals who carry out the activity on their own. The current Act on Offences refers in this part to the reasonable application of the law, the liability of legal persons for offences, which in practice caused difficulties before the criminal authority, in particular the inspection and the court. In view of the 2009 decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the right to appeal shall be re-examined in order to determine the clearer role of the beneficiaries in the lodging of the complaint and to determine the grounds for the lodging of the complaint as well as the appeal procedure itself. A new exceptional legal remedy shall be introduced with the title “Abolition or modification of a decision” on the proposal of the criminal authority in which the district court of the criminal authority will decide. The purpose of this novel extraordinary remedy is to partially detract from the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, since only one exceptional legal remedy is known by the current law, which is a requirement for the protection of legality, which is quite burdensome for those highest competent authorities. A new institute for the temporary withdrawal of a driver’s licence is being introduced, with the aim of immediately removing dangerous drivers from the road. This is an example of the worst violations of the rules on speed of driving, driving under the influence of alcohol or illicit drugs, driving in the opposite direction Procedures in which the accused has been temporarily taken a driver's licence, seized by a motor vehicle, will be driven in a prior and rapid manner. [[...]] The courts will also have to consider these matters as urgent during the judicial holidays. Returnees will be subject to stricter sanctions in the area of infringement of road safety rules, so that a lateral sanction on the prohibition of motor vehicles can be imposed for a period of three months to two years, up to now from one month to one year. For all the reasons listed above, the proposed law will be supported in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, the distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences. This is the seventh amendment to the law to improve individual solutions that relate to a number of problems that are in practice today. These include procurement infringements, liability procedures for legal and responsible persons, increased road safety. We are thinking in particular of the problems related to the withdrawal of a driver's licence, ensuring a higher degree of legality of decisions in infringement proceedings and so on. This issue is addressed by law in an appropriate manner, since the applicant follows the rules of the individual package in accordance with the principles and objectives set out in the proposal. As a result, the parliamentary group has no support problems and will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to criminal law, the law on offences is part of the criminal law of the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia and one of the most significant elements of its statehood. Criminal law, in the broader sense of the word, may cover a largely heterogeneous group of offences, acts which are linked to the law of regulated criminal sanctions. However, acts which are negatively assessed and considered to be criminal offences are not all the same in terms of their harmfulness and their danger, including the goods, values and interests which the company cultivates and protects are not all of the same importance. The applicable law on offences, which also introduced a comprehensive reform of the substantive, procedural and enforceable law of offences, was adopted in 2003, and has been applicable since 1. 1. 2005. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Offences before us is, as has already been said today, the seventh novel of the Law on Offences. The content can be divided into three sets. The first includes a new regime for the liability of legal persons, independent entrepreneurs, individuals and individuals who carry out their activities, a more precise procedural distinction between criminal and criminal proceedings, and a redefinition of responsibility for offences committed by foreign persons who enjoy immunity under international law. The second set of issues follows the provision of greater legal certainty for the parties in the infringement proceedings. In this context, it is of particular importance that the right to a declaration be exercised consistently in a rapid procedure, that the possibility of a criminal court appeal against a judgment by which the court amends its decision in the interests of the offender, that a new exceptional remedy should be introduced, that a decision should be abolished or amended on a proposal from the criminal court and that there should be uniform case-law in the case of offences, by establishing a solely competent, single higher tribunal for offences rather than the previous four. However, the third set concerns matters relating to the regulation or coordination of regulation with public procurement and the coordination of the subject matter or the regulation of offences with new sectoral laws. Today, the rules of road transport and the driver law have already been mentioned several times. Despite the scope of the amendments, the second reading reached such agreement that no new amendments were tabled for today, which I am personally very pleased with. Of course, this does not yet mean that no further adjustment will be needed in the future, of course in order to ensure the speediest, simpler and more efficient procedure and thus the enforcement of the law. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The new Act on Offences is, as has already been said here on several occasions, the seventh since the adoption of the Offences Act in 2003. This amendment amends about a fifth of the legal provisions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law is welcome in some segments and also brings some more appropriate solutions than we have received so far. In this light, it is worth mentioning, in particular, the pursuit of greater legal certainty by the parties in the proceedings and, as a result of the offence, the consistent exercise of the right to a declaration in a swift procedure, the introduction of the possibility of a criminal court appeal against a judgment by which the court amended the decision in favour of the offender, the abolition or amendment of the decision on a proposal from the criminal authority. We are asking about the appropriateness of the proposed decision, which speaks solely of the competence of a single High Court for Offences rather than the four so far. The new road traffic rules followed by the recently adopted package of transport legislation are followed by this new novelty of offences. However, with regard to road traffic offences, which are now defined in the new transport legislation or traffic safety package, it is appropriate to ask whether these rules will effectively and consistently sanction the perpetrators of the worst road traffic offences or returnees who are being driven without a valid driving licence. We believe that in the context of criminal proceedings, the situation of parties within the framework of judicial protection must also be levelled. This is recalled by both the Constitutional Court and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This fact was also pointed out by the Council of Justice. We also express our expectations that the laws in the field of transport regulations, which we have recently adopted quite a bit in this National Assembly and, in fact, this amendment to the Act on Offences that we are adopting today, will be applied consistently and in particular to all the same. Not only for ordinary citizens, but also for those who come from the highest peaks of Slovenian politics, which means that sanctions will be sanctioned as shown by this law, even for those who pass or drive through the retirement zone, although they are not allowed to sanction those who exceed the limits of speed allowed and that this will be consistently taken into account. We know two well-known cases from the Ministry of Transport, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior. I could mention up to a recent well-known case of Minister Gjerkesh, who, in fact, was the only one conscious of the responsibility for his work and immediately withdrew from his ministerial position. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us brings about a series of changes and a complement to the law currently in force, which has largely taken place on the basis of many debates of the profession. Judicial practice has also shown that certain issues are not adequately addressed. The novelty that we are considering today thus changes and complements one fifth of the legal provisions. Let me list some of the news that really in the Group of Members, the new policy seems to be the most important and, of course, the previous speakers have also mentioned it as such. Greater legal certainty of the parties in the infringement proceedings is ensured because, inter alia, the possibility of a criminal body complaining against a judgment by which the court amended the decision in favour of the offender is introduced. A new exceptional remedy, remedy or amendment of a decision shall therefore be introduced on a proposal from the criminal authority, which shall only be taken into account when it comes to remedying obvious errors in the procedure. In the Group of Members, we are really pleased that, according to the new criminal cases, there will be only one court and not more than 4 courts, as has been the case so far. Why? Because we believe that this will make it easier to ensure uniform case law. A novelty is also going towards harmonisation, as has already been said, with the new legislation already adopted, the Institute for the Temporary Withdrawal of Driver's License and the Institute for the Enforcement of the End of Entry into Force of the Driver's Licence, with regard to the programme of additional training for safe driving and rehabilitation programmes. The purpose of the new Institute for the Temporary Withdrawal of Drivers is to immediately remove dangerous drivers from the road when it comes to the worst violations of the rules on the speed of driving and driving under the influence of alcohol and illicit drugs or driving on the wrong road. The most important innovations brought by the novel should also include the introduction of its own provisions on the liability of the legal person, independent entrepreneurs, individuals or individuals who carry out the activity on their own. This eliminates the problems that criminal authorities have encountered in practice because the law in force in this part referred to the meaningful application of the law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences. According to the new law, this will be regulated in the very law on offences. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the amended and amended Act on Offences will help to increase road safety. Of course, in order to achieve the desired objectives, in addition to stricter criminal policy, the awareness of each individual or participant in transport is essential. We will truly support the marriage in the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Finally, we have a law on the table that the Government has promised since the beginning of this mandate. The law brings a number of good, most urgently needed solutions, which are difficult to summarize briefly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we particularly welcome the introduction of a new aside penalty for exclusion from public procurement procedures, which will be carried out in the event that a party submits, in public procurement proceedings, a false proof or false statement. The consequences of this are now frequent procurement infringements that have damaged public financial and budgetary resources and suspended a number of projects in time. It is right, dear colleagues and colleagues, to make order in this area and that someone for his speculation in obtaining public contracts also bears the consequences of his actions. The Law also regulates the substantive legal basis for determining liability for offences committed by legal and responsible persons. Even in this place, there has been a hole in the legislation, and responsibility has been placed from one responsible person to another. Therefore, the law will bring more transparency in this area. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support the specialisation of courts in certain cases, such as the exclusive competence of the Higher Court in Celje for all criminal matters. We also support such solutions in the future so that not most cases in the judicial field will concentrate in Ljubljana, but other courts in Slovenia will also assume certain responsibilities. The law also provides appropriate transport solutions. The Law on Offences also provides for stricter treatment of the worst infringements of road traffic regulations. We have long warned in the Slovenian People's Party, at one point even with a legal proposal that heavy-duty drivers who are in grave breach of traffic regulations should be seriously threatened by the safety of other drivers, removal from the road. Driving under the influence of alcohol or illicit drugs, driving in the opposite direction on the highway, more than 100 % of speed limits and similar offences are grounds for immediate action. The law also solves the problem of returnees who renew road traffic offences because of certain dependencies or simply because of irresponsibility and at the same time offer measures to address these causes by means of rehabilitation programmes and additional training for safe driving. The proposed law is the product of a broader public debate and as a result it has brought to the attention of the professional public the problems we face in practice. In such a marriage, it was not difficult to find a broader consensus, both in the profession and here in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we would like more such laws, including in the field of labour and economic, tax and other legislation, which solves specific problems and complications on the ground, but not offer some theoretical solutions. For these reasons, we will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on prostitution, within the framework of the ordinary procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members! The law on volunteering, which NGOs have been expecting for many years, is on your hands today. Unquestionably, we all agree that organised volunteering within non-governmental organisations is the foundation of solidarity, integration, people-to-people awareness in our country. And it is right that the State responds to this extremely important social benefit of our fellow citizens in the way we have tried to systematically regulate it in the Voluntary Act. To be able to respond effectively, we have prepared the law in close cooperation, I can say, together with representatives of NGOs. It defines volunteerism as a socially beneficial work, defines voluntary organisations, rights and obligations, sets out the principles and sets out many mechanisms that we estimate will help strengthen and encourage our citizens to participate more fully in volunteering. If I just list some mechanisms that we can jointly assess as good, these are the following: there will be a special arrangement between a volunteer and a volunteer organisation. On the basis of this agreement, the voluntary organisation will be required to provide for the guided management of this voluntary work, mentoring. The organisation will be obliged to give him a certificate of acquired competence in the performance of voluntary work, which is of paramount importance when such an individual can run on the labour market and demonstrate his or her competence. Volunteers shall have the right to reimbursement of costs incurred in carrying out voluntary work. Up to 20% will be able to recover this personal work from the costs incurred in the form of a flat-rate, otherwise on the basis of the invoices submitted. Also mentoring, which is leading to the competent exercise of volunteering in a given field, is extremely important. The State will encourage the further development of volunteering in the way of permanent work with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an inter-ministerial working group, from representatives of ministries and NGOs, to develop a strategy and further measures to promote volunteering. At least 10% of the funds allocated to non-governmental organisations’ programmes will have to be earmarked for the financing of voluntary work carried out by individuals within non-governmental organisations. Here we believe that even with the institute, when NGOs and voluntary organisations apply for public funds and can also evaluate voluntary work in the context of this application and will present it instead of a cash contribution, this is extremely important for strengthening the non-governmental sector in our country. And last but not least, the state recognition we introduce and given by the President of the State every year, the state reward and state recognitions show the country's exceptional high awareness that voluntary work and volunteers create a large part of social capital or gross domestic product with their commitment. As a result, we are also introducing systematic monitoring of the number of volunteer hours, so that after one year of reporting, we will be able to assess for the first time in this country how many hours our people have contributed to the fact that the lives of fellow citizens in crisis, whose title is addressed to volunteer work, are living more humanely. Thank you very much. I suggest you support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much. This bill was considered by the Committee at its 26th meeting, on 13 January. The proponent is the government. We had a wide range of materials, namely the draft law, the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the decision of the Youth Committee of 15 December 2010, the letter from the Municipality of Velenje, the letter from the Mountain Council, the letter from the Youth Council of Slovenia, the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. There were a lot of amendments to the business deadline, I must say. The coalition groups tabled amendments to paragraphs 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 12, 18, 23, 24, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32, 33, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52. Amendments to Articles 2, 7, 9, 17, 18, 23, 24, 32, 33, 37, 38, 50, 51 and 52 were also tabled. The amendments of the SLS Group to Articles 7, 31, 32, 33, 50 and 52 were also tabled. The Minister also gave the Committee an extensive interpretation of the law, as is now the case. The legislative and legal service, on her behalf Mrs Method Hrvat Pirnat, said in their presentation of their opinion that they had made one general comment on the bill, namely that it is not clear to what extent it relates only to organised volunteering and to what extent to other types of volunteering. The position of the Council of State was that they supported the bill. Ambassador Majda Potrat, president of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, said that the draft law was considered to be an interested working body after a preliminary hearing on the Youth Sub-Committee, which operates within their framework. In addition, a decision was taken calling on the mother labour body to examine and follow the recommendations made by the Council of Slovenia on the draft law. It also expressed its satisfaction that these recommendations have already been taken into account to a large extent in the amendments. Representatives of NGOs, who were quite numerous and actively involved in the debate, somehow unitedly supported the proposal of the law, of course each with some different views and wishes for amendments. An essential part of the debate was devoted to the contents of Articles 5 and 17 and 23 of the draft law and to the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Ambassadors, represented by Mrs Jerajev. The Committee therefore adopted amendments to SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS, most of these amendments, as well as the SDS Group's amendments to Article 2 and Article 18 and the SLS Group's amendments to Article 31. The Committee did not adopt most of the SDS amendments and most of the SLS amendments. However, the amendments of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 4 and 18 and some of the amendments of SDS Group Members to Articles 9, 33, 51 and 52 have become irrelevant. The Committee also adopted some of its amendments to Articles 4, 5 and 38. Finally, the Committee voted on the proposal for an integrated text of the bill with the amendments already adopted and adopted them all together. This integral text is an integral part of this report.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u26	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary! The proposed law on volunteering is intended to be fully and fully regulated at a systemic level in a single regulation, which has been regulated only partially, opaquely and completely in various legal acts so far. Therefore, the area of volunteering in the Republic of Slovenia is not systematically regulated, although it is very widespread and has a long tradition. Even at European Union level, this topic is not systematically regulated. Due to its specificity, regulatory arrangements are not necessary. However, from the point of view, it is necessary that the State recognises volunteerism as one of the important values that make a key contribution to the development of social solidarity. Moreover, the exercise of voluntary work requires the provision of certain rights under the responsibility of performing such work, which cannot be regulated without a legal basis, given that volunteering constitutes a noble and humane act that is currently desirable but also increasingly necessary at the time of the crisis. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that the status of persons engaged in such non-profit activities should be regulated. Volunteers carry out voluntary work in a wide range of fields, from environmental protection, civil protection, fire protection and other natural disasters to culture and social. A clear, normative determination of the rights and duties of all those involved in volunteer work is needed. Finally, volunteering also complements the country's social services. However, the country must establish an enabling framework for the further effective development of volunteer work. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will also support the proposal of the Law on Volunteering.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we support the bill that we are considering today. Volunteer work has a long tradition in Slovenia. In recent years volunteering has become increasingly important in the area of complementing state services and social services, allowing lower costs and greater accessibility to these services. Volunteering contributes so much to social well-being. Therefore, the need for its systemic regulation is increasingly being highlighted. In order to further promote volunteering and benefit from all potentials, it is necessary to adopt a law defining voluntary work, allowing statistical monitoring and evaluation of its added value and encouraging the work of voluntary organisations. The area of volunteering in the Republic of Slovenia is not systematically regulated; public normative determination of the rights and duties of all participants in volunteer work is required. The exercise of voluntary work requires the provision of certain rights for the performance of such work which cannot be regulated without a legal basis. Finally, in its 2009 annual report, the Ombudsman drew attention to the urgency of the adoption of the Law on Volunteering. The aim of the legal regime for volunteering, among other things, is to open up opportunities for the integration of the unemployed into voluntary work and thus into the active part of the population. The aim is also to raise the interest of young people in engaging in volunteer work, allowing them to acquire social and work experience that enhances their competitiveness in the labour market. The proposal of the Voluntary Act, which is before us today, follows the principles that ensure the non-discrimination of individuals and organisations involved in volunteering, the protection of users of volunteer work, the prohibition of the exploitation of volunteers and the incompatibilities and free of charge of volunteering. At the same time, the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering in its articles systematically defines the basic concepts defining volunteers and voluntary organisations, the conditions for the management of organised volunteer work, the rights and obligations of volunteers and voluntary organisations, the promotion of the development and monitoring of organised volunteering, the competence to implement and supervise the implementation of the law. Since we share the Government's view in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that this area needs to be regulated legally, and we believe that the bill before us is doing so accordingly, we have also supported the bill in the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the group of unrelated Members will be presented by Vila Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Let me say at the beginning of this position that the proposal for a law prepared by the Government has also encountered a favourable response in the Group of Non-Aligned Members Solidarity, and therefore we provide support for the adoption of this law and support for further, we suppose, not too much of a delayed need to make something more complete and change. We know that the Law on Volunteering and the Law on Social Entrepreneurship are thus directly linked. We know that they both began to plow the ice and to stick to it, both areas, some weakness called systemic disorder. The bill is trying to fix it, to sort it out. This system of regulation is actually interesting from this point of view, because the path from the thesis to the adoption of legislation in Parliament is a long decade and a half. 15 years ago, the Youth Office prepared thesis on this kind of law. About 10 years later, a draft was drawn up, which was also transmitted two years ago to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and was transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration. In short, we can see that it's about a bone that's a little hot and folded from hand to hand. We should therefore say that the country has so far shown no particular interest in implementing this and has not been overly active. In fact, there was nothing left but to respond eventually to what NGOs had prepared. Of course, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the law for the sake of the importance we attach to this law, with regard to the many societies and individuals who are unselfishly distributed in these areas, and for the reason that the objectives are such that it is not possible not to support them. In particular, if we think that this is an important contribution in the area of increasing social cohesion in our society, we know that it is the fact that those who are pushed to the brink of economic, social, financial or other conditions may nevertheless be caught up in this social network. We know that it is also a very important objective to complement the service of public services and that it is also about mitigating the social problems that many have and making goods and services more accessible in this area. Also, gathering experience, knowledge, increasing the employability of those who go through volunteering processes is probably not something we should just overlook. It is, as we estimate, however, important to note some things, because we believe that, as the Legislative and Legal Service has determined in general, many provisions are so plentiful, so indeterminate that many can be interpreted differently. In this regard, there may be difficulties in implementing this law, so it will be necessary to pay very close attention to these problems while preparing possible improvements and corrections. This blank resolution writing of individual parts of this law is one of the weaknesses. Another weakness is that while the Government is now actively approaching, providing authorities and measures, providing it with a part of the means, we can find that these funds, the 10% mentioned by the Minister, are not something that, for example, could be said to be new funds for additional activities, but will be more or less allocated to the reallocation of these funds, which are intended for such activities, will only provide greater guarantees for organised voluntary organisations that funds will also be available to them. However, it is also important to note that the type has established such ones as are exclusive, restrictive and possibly even discriminatory, which, of course, will only be able to give more talks at the time of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj, pardon. First, she will present Silva Montenegro's position on the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary and colleague! "Among volunteers for a better world" is the motto of this year's European Year of Volunteering, which seeks to create a better environment for volunteering within its borders and to ensure that their work is recognised and that the public is more aware of the benefits and importance of volunteering. Volunteering is one of the key dimensions of active citizenship and democracy, which realizes European values such as solidarity and non-discrimination. Slovenia has an extremely long tradition of volunteering, and it is therefore right to regulate this area at a normative level in the European Year of Volunteering. It is precisely the proposal of the Voluntary Act that for the first time systematically regulates volunteer work in Slovenia, which has not been fully regulated so far. The key issues covered by the law are the definition of organised volunteer work, volunteers and voluntary organisations, with a special place also having long-term volunteering, the identification of the rights and duties of volunteers and voluntary organisations, the definition of the role of the State and local communities, which are obliged to become more involved in supporting and developing volunteer work, in particular in terms of recording and evaluating this, providing favourable, material and legal basis for voluntary work and providing financial means to co-finance the costs of volunteer work. At all levels, the public authorities are obliged to cooperate with voluntary bodies in the handling of matters relating to volunteering. In line with the proposal, the voluntary organisation, which will provide and train volunteers and organise volunteer work, will also maintain a record of volunteering and volunteering, which will enable the improvement of the state of volunteering in the Republic of Slovenia through the publication of transparent data and present and recognise its importance for improving the quality of life of individuals and social groups. In addition to regulating the rights and duties of volunteers and organisations at the level, the law introduces a state award and recognition for volunteering as the highest national recognition in this area. Systematic irregularity in the area has sometimes hampered the systematic implementation of individual voluntary works, and the adoption of the system law also brings recognition of the importance of volunteering and for the first time provides systemic levers for its systematic development and monitoring. The law regulates important issues of NGOs. It brings together the interests of all volunteers and voluntary organisations. It is therefore right to receive as much support as possible despite the fact that the law also brings a lot and a number of records of additional administrative burdens for voluntary organisations. In the Group of Social Democrats, we miss the fact that when we adopt the law, we will also not get a volunteering strategy as an indispensable act, which monitors and provides with content, encourages and motivates the work of voluntary organisations and the attitude of the Government and government authorities towards this extremely important activity. We expect that by the end of the year the volunteering strategy will be somehow on the table, at least in the form of a draft. Let me say that the strategy is defined in section 36 of the Act. It will lay down a fundamental policy and measures to promote volunteer work for a period of five years. Volunteering is included as a social value in the system of educational work and system. Let me also say that in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill along with the amendments, because 15 million volunteer hours means very much and, last but not least, 200 000 volunteers in Slovenia deserve such a systematic law. Let me say that the contribution of voluntary work in gross domestic product is estimated to range from 0.08% to 0.5% and in the most developed countries, such as Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden, it is 5%. I believe that the strategy will be the one that will also contribute in one way to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will now be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law on volunteering. We estimate that it is right that some things are also legally defined, that we define what volunteering is and that is why we think the law is the right thing to do. In the debate, however, we drew attention to a few things that disturb us or that we assess so that we can write them down and arrange them better. In particular, we are disturbed by the exclusion of Article 5, which speaks of which organisations can and are considered voluntary organisations and which work we consider to be voluntary work. The second indent of Article 5 speaks of the fact that voluntary work is not considered to be free of charge to carry out work intended to satisfy only the personal interests of members of a member organisation and that work which is not of general social benefit. We estimate that with such a dictatorship we may have narrowed it down too much. Although the Minister explained that because they did not want to, or probably it would not be best for all the societies operating today to then engage and declare voluntary organisations, because some members of these societies really only meet their needs. However, according to the data we have, there were between 280 000 and 350 000 volunteers active in 2004 who have done many hours of volunteer work, and most of these are, of course, in societies, institutions and institutions, but especially in societies. That is why it seems to us that the objective of the Government and also the law should be that as many of these are actually defined as voluntary organisations because they operate in different areas. From the protection of the environment, civil protection, protection against fires, culture, social, which means that all 4,000 cultural societies would be part of this group. The second thing that bothers us about the law is a lot of the administration we're introducing. While we understand that if you want to do some statistics, you need to collect certain data, but it seems to us that this is too much and that it will probably be a major setback for smaller organisations to work hard and obtain the name of a voluntary organisation. This means that in the long run, we will be very bad at assessing how much volunteer work really is, because such an organization or smaller societies will not decide on it. We are further concerned that they will not be able to apply for tenders, as one of the conditions will be that the organisation is also likely to have the status of a voluntary organisation. This does not come out of the law at this point, but according to other practices this will almost certainly happen because the money is usually too small and then by the publication of the invitation to tender we narrow things down so that somehow those who meet more than one condition come to these funds. In view of this we have proposed amendments, some have been repeated, which we have already proposed for the Committee's meetings. I think we have had a very high-quality debate on this on the committee. Most of us know work in volunteer societies and, as we say, we support the law in our parliamentary group, but we hope that you will also support some of our proposals that we have tabled in the form of amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! I am pleased that it has already been mentioned in the debate earlier today that this law is, in fact, somehow in conjunction with the law on social entrepreneurship, which is also in the parliamentary procedure, but of course, it might be worth mentioning the key law on prevention of work in black, which can be tackled from another perspective and would therefore be aware that we have now begun with this law before us and with the law on social entrepreneurship with a new view to activities, so that, of course, the law on prevention of work in black would also be applied with greater care to take into account, read and decide on its solutions. What I am particularly pleased about is, not only that we recognize the work that volunteer organisations and many volunteers in Slovenia are doing for the good of these communities, but that in some ways we also recognize that it is not just an economic activity that can guarantee prosperity, that we say it is not an easy equation between economic growth and the quality of living, and that, of course, the events of the last year, two or more months teach us that, in fact, the economy or if you want capital, does not have the social responsibility that people, for example, have in their lives also devote to some of the voluntary activities. It has already been mentioned how much gross social product can be produced abroad in voluntary organisations, and we cannot exactly make this assessment because the current legislation of this work is virtually unaware, cannot be evaluated, the contribution of voluntary organisations is not actually recognised as a material input in the implementation of certain activities and, of course, all assessments can only be flat-rate. But we know that we are, of course, a number of NGOs or societies if you want Slovenians at the world summit itself. We also know that we are on the tail of the European Union as regards the share of gross social product produced by NGOs in our country. In the Really Group, we also hope that this law will help to make a positive change in this area. Although the Council of the European Union has already declared this year as the European Year of Voluntary Activities for the Promotion of Active Citizenship on 24 November 2009, or for a short period for the European Year of Volunteering with the slogan "Be a Volunteer, Change the World". The basic objectives of this year's volunteering year are to create a favourable environment for volunteering, to strengthen the competence of volunteers to improve their quality, to recognise voluntary activities and to raise awareness of the benefits and importance of volunteering. The Universal Declaration of Volunteering says that volunteering is one of the cornerstones of civil society, as it revives the most noble aspirations of mankind, efforts for peace, freedom, opportunity, security, justice for all. As an activity of individuals or groups, volunteering gives individuals, members of communities who are learning and growing throughout their lives, an opportunity to open up and strengthen values, care, assistance, the opportunity to exercise rights and responsibility and to realize potentials, the opportunity to bridge the differences that separate us, to live in healthy happy communities and to work together to find innovative solutions to common problems and to shape the future together. In the Group of Members, we are pleased to see that, as part of the European Year of Volunteering, we are adopting this law on volunteering, which systematically governs the field of volunteering in Slovenia, although it would be good if we had done it before, but I think that symbolism is appropriate to do so. Voluntary work in our legislation has not yet been defined as a specific form of activity that is carried out for the public good and contributes to the welfare of the country and the community. The country and the local communities are often slowing down, responding ineffectively to a number of social initiatives. It is therefore necessary to ensure more stable conditions for volunteer organisations and to recognise this intangible voluntary work as a material contribution to voluntary activities. Among the solutions provided by law is the regulation of the relationship between a voluntary organisation and a volunteer, the definition of their mutual rights and, of course, their obligations, the volunteer has the right under this law to special training for voluntary work, mentors and many other important rights. Among them, until the real costs arising from the exercise are reimbursed, the right to a lump sum which must not exceed at annual level by law a certain percentage of the monthly salary. The possibility of insurance for volunteers shall be defined. It is also important for volunteer project managers to be involved in a youth action largely carried out by youth organisations in Slovenia. It is difficult to expect a novelty of this law to allow the payment of compensation for personal expenses to those who, on the basis of international contracts, do this work in Slovenia. We are pleased that the law also came into existence in conjunction with non-governmental organisations, and that is why we will support it in the Really Group – a new policy of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are pleased that a law on volunteering has also come into the legislative process, which many NGOs have been waiting for for many years, as the law will undoubtedly improve the state of volunteering in Slovenia and recognise the importance of volunteering to improve the quality of life of individuals and social groups. For the law systematically regulates the area of volunteering as socially beneficial activities of individuals who contribute to the improvement of the quality of life through their work and unselfishness and thus to the development of a more solidarity society. In particular, the law focuses on the relationship between a volunteer and a voluntary organisation in the form of an agreement on voluntary work. Detailedly regulates mutual rights and obligations, which we consider to be a very good solution in the Slovenian People's Party, as these volunteers will be entitled to certain benefits, in particular the reimbursement of the costs incurred in carrying out voluntary activities, the right to mentoring and training and other rights. The bill also establishes a register of volunteers and volunteer work that will allow voluntary organisations to manage volunteer work in a uniform and comprehensive manner. It is also possible for a volunteer to obtain a certificate of voluntary work from a voluntary organisation, which will be of particular benefit to him in proving the acquired competences. This is especially true for young people who can benefit greatly from informal experience in the search for a first job. Members of the Slovenian People's Party actively participated in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering. We have also tabled 7 amendments, which were quite similar to the amendments of the other parliamentary groups after the content. While we regret that our amendment to Article 37 of the bill has not been adopted, it would allow for an increase in resources from the state budget for the implementation of voluntary organisations' programmes. This amendment would also remove the provision for voluntary organisations to be allocated to non-voluntary organisations. We are pleased that our amendment to Article 31 has been adopted in the treatment of the parent body, allowing for an increase in the lump sum of compensation for the use of own resources from 15% to a maximum of 20% of the average monthly wage in Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal for a law during the course of the hearing in the National Assembly with the amendments adopted has been very close to the ideal and constitutes an important basis for assessing and promoting volunteering as important activities that can contribute to improving social well-being and the development of a solidarity society. For these reasons, we will be happy to adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Today’s socio-economic situation, unpredictable nature, or any other disaster or tribulation can change the lives of an individual at a time and the moment at which each of us can be found is determined to show one another our unselfishness, humanity, solidarity and willingness to help and support one another. The Voluntary Act has been in preparation for more than a decade. In the DeSUS Group, we will be happy to vote in favour of a law that is already difficult to expect in our area, and we also welcome the adoption of the law in order to finally have it in the European Year of Volunteering. Despite the long tradition of volunteer work in Slovenia, this is not fully system-wide and is not defined as a specific form of activity that is carried out for the public good and contributes to the welfare of the country. Some forms of volunteer work and volunteer rights have already been regulated, but these are individual areas, which means that there is no uniform principle of rules in the field of volunteer work. As a result, its exploitation is allowed, and there is a lack of clear determination of the rights and duties of all participants in the voluntary work process. The area of volunteering in Slovenia is not defined as a comprehensive strategy for the development of volunteering, but is characterised by the dispersion and diversity of regulation at local and national level. This makes it difficult to develop measures to increase its unrecognizability and an enabling environment for faster development and to ensure more stable conditions for volunteer organisations. It is therefore clear that there is also a need for a clear definition of the role of the State and local communities in the promotion, development and systemic support of volunteering. In the DeSUS Group, we find that the bill responds to the current challenges faced by all volunteers, the current trend of increasing the number of active volunteers and, in this regard, the needs of users of volunteer work and organisations. On the basis of the reference volunteer-voluntary organisation, the law provides for arrangements for the performance of voluntary work, which must contain all essential and mandatory components that are the basis for urgent rights and obligations, as well as a basis for ensuring a safe relationship with the user in the sense of non-hazarding health and non-exposure to immoral and certain criminal offences. The introduction of mentoring is also particularly positive for the volunteer and quality. The experience gained by the volunteer will yet come to him as well as recognised, credible competences for any further voluntary work and also in the labour market. We welcome the implementation of measures for the systematic development of volunteering and the envisaged development of a national volunteering strategy through measures to promote it. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the law and we are very pleased that this area will finally receive comprehensive and systemic support. I also have before me a statement by the President of the country, Dr Danil Turk, which declares the importance of volunteering in Slovenia, where there is tradition and, in particular, a strong economic situation in the event of accidents. The President of the State also declares that volunteering is an important component of neighbourhood aid and is one of the most developed forms of integration and solidarity. It also declares that the way in which the law will live depends heavily on the debate in the National Assembly and the Members' willingness to volunteer, as well as on the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the articles of the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 31 January 2011. First, I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 4? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 4. We're moving on to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. In my opening speech, I have already said what bothers us in this Article 5 or we estimate that it is too close to the possibility for some organisations. The second indent of Article 5(2) states that voluntary work shall not be considered to be free of charge, which is intended to satisfy only the personal interests of members of a member organisation and is generally of social benefit. We have already highlighted on the Committee what this might mean for cultural societies when someone goes to a singing assembly to satisfy his interest and his joy, but of course there is certainly a general social benefit. We always say that lovers' societies preserve a lover's culture, preserve Slovenian culture, tear it away, and so on. Here we have also presented examples of some youth organisations, in particular political underages, where a lot of voluntary work is being done, a lot of work for young people, which the Government considers in its proposal to be satisfying only the personal interests of members. We say that we should support volunteerism, allow it wherever possible, and that it is carried out anywhere, but you cannot limit voluntary work, and not only where some might wish. Therefore, in the SDS, we propose to delete this indent because we are talking about volunteer work here. And it is likely that it will be very difficult to assess whether something is just to satisfy personal needs or is also of general social benefit or vice versa. The Youth Council of Slovenia also made such a proposal. We have summarized this in our amendment, because we are also assessing that it would be good for this indent to be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party speaks of deleting the second indent of paragraph 2, namely which works should not be considered free of charge and which are intended to satisfy only the personal interests of members of a member organisation and are not of general social benefit. We may have a slightly different understanding, but also people who are involved in various cultural or sports societies may be doing this in their original activities to satisfy their interests, but they can also do voluntary work within these societies, helping other members or external factors. So we don't essentially limit them inside of it at all. We see volunteerism in a different way. There is not some kind of membership in a society, but it is in itself self - assuming that it is voluntary work. It is necessary to do something about it, and this law also allows for this in several articles. When we talk about volunteering itself, we need to know that we need to look at it more broadly, and it certainly does. Especially in three points, as I see it. First of all, we're getting some kind of regulatory arrangement. And if we look at Article 5, volunteer work is largely recognised in many areas. Secondly, we're talking about community service. So, even in the membership of a society, organizations can carry out voluntary work and are recognized for it. And thirdly, the inclusion of those who are not socially most involved in the various processes, including the unemployed, in order to engage, in some way establish first contact with employers and then may be easier to achieve first employment. By certainly not doing or doing what is the primary purpose of this law by deleting this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much again, President. The amendment tabled by the SDS is summarised by the Slovenian Youth Council, so I would say that if we respond to the original candidate, then there is no need to politicise anything here. I have to say, I support this amendment. I don't see any particular reason why we should be overly restrictive. I don't see how it's possible to separate one person's benefits from the general social benefits in an absolute sense, if he's involved, I don't know, with a lovemaking cultural activity, if someone's engaged in recreational or sports activities, and he's strengthening his health and the health of the people in this way. I see no reason, even some of the others referred to in this article, why we should exclude that volunteering that goes to friends or volunteering that has the character of normal work in the family, because it is not different for me. I think that this article is too restrictive here. And that's why I support the amendment, which is a part of these problems. On the other hand, we allow other types of volunteering. Volunteering in such a way that we allow volunteering, which I think has forced. Since we cannot do this differently, we allow people who have worked in the form of public works to be voluntarily employed in the public administration, and these public works have expired and no longer have the opportunity to continue to be involved in order to remain socially integrated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u47	Comrade Rezman, your time has passed quite a bit, you have two minutes of minus. That's what I missed. I'm afraid I'm going to have to interrupt. Finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u48	I thank you for this insight, and once again, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u49	It was complete, it wasn't intended, it was complete. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The fundamental issue that we have already addressed in cooperation with NGOs on a large, nearly 12 regional agendas was the issue that you have raised with the proposal of this amendment, which is a matter that you have already drawn up in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. It is certainly not intended to limit the generally beneficial work done by our citizens in different associations of the non-profit nature of private law in society and, of course, to aim not to register voluntary organisations. This procedure is very simplified. This organisation will decide for itself whether its activities are being carried out on the outside. Look, there's no need for a 2011 password "Be a volunteer, change the world". Unquestionably, the general benefit is in itself the benefit of associating with people. This sociological moment, which is being pursued by countries, that people are not individualists, but that they are also addressing others in society is certainly extremely important in the context of association. But the essence of volunteering, as regulated by this regulation and followed by NGOs, voluntary organisations in the majority, is, however, not to be found here by those associations which, as this article says, satisfy only the personal interests of members of a member organization and are not of general social benefit. It cannot be denied that union integration is not an organisation, that is, a union where it is not a general social benefit, where they primarily fight for the position of people who pay membership and represent them as an interest organisation. Even religious institutions, churches have members who satisfy their partial interests in this association. Political parties are interested associations where individual members, when united, of course, satisfy their personal interests. Whether these organisations will sign up for voluntary organisations is a question raised at the time of the preparation of this deadline. It is also an assessment by NGOs that the purpose and wish of this law is to organise those parts also within these organisations, member organisations. For example, humanitarian organisations such as Karitas and others who perform outside humanitarian activities in a significant part will absolutely be listed as voluntary organisations, not as such, not as a political party as such, not as a trade union. If this amendment were to be adopted, all these organisations, where the assessment of non-governmental organisations as well, that merger is intended solely for the personal interests of members of this membership organisation, would be problematic in this part of the concept of the regulation as set out below. Therefore, after serious consultations, we decided that the purpose of the law was not to record the hours spent by individuals as members of organisations and to satisfy only their own personal interests, but rather to satisfy the wider interests, when the activity of these voluntary organisations is also shown to other people. So here is the activity of volunteer organisations outside of others. We can agree with you. Nor can it be denied to these member organisations that these activities are not outside, but the purpose of voluntary, non-governmental organisations was not to include these powerful organisations in this regulation. We propose that this amendment should not be adopted and because, according to the assessment of Article 5, as it is today, it is sufficiently clear and sufficiently broad to allow today's voluntary and non-governmental organisations to register voluntary organisations. Here too, perhaps, with the apparent great administration. I would like to explain that, in cooperation with NGOs, we have prepared this method of reporting in the least bureaucratic way possible, but in a way that allows the State to monitor the number of voluntary organisations, in particular the number of volunteer hours carried out by members of these organisations. Our assessment is that, of course, less data here would not mean that, in the public interest, we would achieve the goal they set themselves. Here, for this reason alone, we have also recommended in the Committee's debate that this amendment should not be accepted, because it would certainly be a situation for all organisations that today, all societies that operate and actually satisfy only the interests of their members, members, to be included, not to show their wider usefulness in relation to other citizens. Here, at least in the introduction of the law, most NGOs agreed that this was not their intention either. It is not intended that all the societies that are now registered with Apes as non-profit organisations are private organisations, where people unite to act only out of personal interest. This was not the intention of NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We move on to paragraphs 7 and 9. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 7 and 9 are substantively linked and will be discussed together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 7 and 9 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Alenka Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for saying that again. So, with both amendments, we want to follow that volunteering is a national value, that we must encourage and talk about it, and that what has been said to the previous article worries us that it is too narrow in this way, and then, when we analyze things by law, we will find that we have several times fewer volunteers than we actually have. So it seems to us that these things should be arranged differently. Therefore, for Article 7, it is proposed that voluntary work, defined as voluntary work from at least 24 hours a year, be converted to at least 50 hours a year. This was suggested by the Mountain Association, and explained. In the same article, we are also talking about the fact that voluntary work can also be done in non-profit, private and public institutions, because we are talking about voluntary work in these organisations. In our view, there is no point in narrowing it down and determining where voluntary work can be carried out and where not. The only problem would be that it is not exploited in the economy, it is said that it remains as defined in Article 5, what volunteer work is. So, the work that an individual does on his own will and without the expected payment. By supporting the amendment both to Article 7 and Article 9 in our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Here. The Mountain Association has proposed that the lower limit of certain hours still to be covered, instead of 24 hours, representing three working days of individual volunteer work per annum, be 50 hours. In this case, six working days would be lost in a major action. One hundred thousand volunteers mean to lose, the data is 5 million hours spent or it is actually an assessment by NGOs that three working days and also ours, as a public authority, that even three days – if someone engages, it is important to capture this information. On the issue of volunteering in public institutions, the concept you are proposing is problematic, as you define a public institution at this point as a voluntary organisation. We regulate and apply to the exercise of the volunteering of persons of public law in the field of social activities. These are, in particular, public institutions in the way that today, within the framework of public institutions, recommended volunteering is already taking place today. This means that the management of the institution shall, in agreement with the voluntary organisation, determine in the programme the extent to which it carries out its activities with the volunteers. This implementation shall be carried out by a voluntary organisation. Volunteers are under regime, but on the basis of an agreement with the voluntary organisation's public office. This voluntary organisation also reports on the number of hours spent by voluntary organisations on the basis of an agreement in a public institution for the general social benefit and such arrangements are systematic and appropriate. Certainly not to prevent volunteering in public institutions. This is already being done in hospitals, in nursing homes. In this law, only the procedure that is being implemented today is recorded in the proper manner, in agreement between the chairman and the voluntary organisation. In fact, in Article 9, it is undeniable to reiterate once again that the common feature of political parties, union organisations, employers' associations, professional professional associations, registered churches and religious communities is to meet the specific needs of their targeted members to affirm political options, professions, confessions and so on. These organisations, even if they are carried out free of charge under agreement with the non-governmental sector, are not considered voluntary organisations in this law. Once again, voluntary organisations shall be regarded as those parts of these organisations, member organisations which correspond to the definition of a voluntary organisation. Last but not least, the representative of Slovenian philanthropy and Slovenian Karitas participated in the drafting of the law. These organisations: Karitas, Red Crescent and so on correspond to all the definitions of a voluntary organisation as defined by this law. In short, for that reason, to Article 7 and Article 9 and because, as is the case today, NGOs also agree, we propose that the concept of the law does not change in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u55	Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I know this marriage was hard to prepare. If he wasn't there, he'd probably be ready by now. That's what I mean. However, I don't know if the Minister has expressed herself awkwardly about our criterion of hours to be done with voluntary work, that 25, for example, means a downturn of three working days. Something like that. But if we go to 50, that means two, six working days is out. I don't know if that's the most important criterion. I admit that I do not intend to hunt the Minister for these words, but if we go into this thinking about how many days of work there are, after all, voluntary work can be done at work for days off. I'm going to name just one organization that's probably working on different bases. They're firefighters. Firefighters also do volunteer work. It's a voluntary society. It is likely that firefighters carry out their hours even when they are not working days. That they're having trouble with it, that's what they are. But there can't be any criteria for volunteering as much as it would be on weekdays. I admit that I do not know what the basic approach was in the drafting of this law. I know what it says. That's second, but what a downturn at work days, but I don't think it's the luckiest and most appropriate. And if I stay with firefighters who don't look at work days, they do their job whenever it is, 24 hours a day. I think that we should also help such organisations with a different approach and not take positions, I do not know how voluntary firefighters meet for employers, if intervention takes place during working hours, then this is a failure. We should find another solution that would not have ignored that fact. That's right. However, we need to ask ourselves: What is more important now, whether it is a workday or a volunteer work? For, for example, the intervention of firefighters and the work they do is simply not comparable to the loss of those working hours they have in their employer. But it's true that the employer has a problem with that. Therefore, those employers who are willing to accept this volunteering, who are also willing to endure such failures in the work process, should be stimulated somehow. And more comprehensive. I hope the government has been following this aspect as well. But that the main criterion is a working day, a work day out, which I don't think is entirely appropriate. I'm counting on the secretary to explain that to me that I'm not going to be in the wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Also reported was Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, then Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. There is probably a misunderstanding because these 24 hours need to be placed in the context of the law. If an individual in a voluntary organisation does volunteer work for more than 24 hours, if you want to, at the annual level, then it is not necessary for a voluntary organisation to register the number of hours that this volunteer has spent at the annual level. So, up to three days, if someone only comes and does one thing and then nothing else is the limit when a volunteer organization doesn't have to keep records of this individual's contribution. However, if he spends three days a year, i.e. 24 hours a year, we want him to be taken care of and that a volunteer organisation will put this work on display and also report to us whether or not he will issue a certificate of this volunteering to the extent that he has done. A lower limit is set for the obligation to report to each voluntary organisation. Your amendment to this lower limit is from 24 hours to 50 hours, so I said you would lose so many hours by individuals because organizations would not be required to sign in. So if an individual at an annual level spends up to 50 hours on your proposal. Therefore, our interest, the public interest is to show as many volunteer hours as possible at the annual level, and the Mountain Alliance has been the only one who has thought and assessed that it would be better to give a greater range to capture and report on this work, and that other NGOs, as well as us who have been looking at public interest here, have estimated that it is good to cover three working days at national level through the reporting of these voluntary organisations and we have them covered in the record. Maybe I misspoke. In short, it is our interest that the three volunteer days that an individual carries out in a voluntary organisation are recorded and, at the annual report, as foreseen once a year, when the voluntary organisations report to Apes in any case with the financial report, they complete the form. This form does not contain difficult data, it will only describe how many arrangements have been made for voluntary work [[oral or written]] , the thefts where this voluntary work was carried out, and this is why it is important because they will also write down whether volunteers worked in institutions, and this is what is written in the article. The third figure in this report is the total number of volunteer hours performed in relation to each type of volunteer work and also the age groups of volunteers. This will be these organisations once a year when they have to submit a financial report to Apes under financial rules. Here we have agreed with Ipes when the report on this work will be sent through Ipes to collect, process and prepare important and properly collected data on voluntary work for the country. So the work that an individual does at least 24 hours at an annual level. So it is the duty of voluntary organisations to record more than 24 hours of volunteer work per year for an individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you. I'll go back to this 9th. So our amendment stipulates the first and second paragraphs. However, we would delete 3rd and 4th, which speaks of the fact that voluntary organisations cannot be political parties, union organisations, employers' associations, professional and professional associations and registered churches and other religious communities. In paragraph 4, you also allow this, but only if these organisations have the status of a humanitarian organisation. But we do know that not everyone has that status locally. I don't know, parish, Karitas or anything like that, and in my logic, this is contrary to Article 5 of the Religious Freedom Act, which states: " Churches and other religious communities that advocate spirituality and human dignity in private and public life, strive to devise a stay in the field of religious life, while also having an important role in public life by developing their cultural, educational, educational, solidarity, and other activities in the field of social state, with which they enrich national identity and thus perform an important social task, are generally useful organisations". After saying that they cannot be voluntary, I think we took some of this away from them because we told them, with the Religious Freedom Act, that they are generally socially beneficial organizations. If I continue, there is a specific parish Karitas who do not probably have the status of humanitarian organisations, but we know that our parishes are carrying out educational work, oratoriums, work with young people. Where are we gonna put this? This is not a humanitarian activity, what I have read, an educational cultural activity. But if we rule out all this, registered churches and other religious communities, then we've ruled it out. We will not recognize this as voluntary work, although countless animationists and volunteers throughout Slovenia spend one week in the summer, 14 days working with children and youth. This is not humanitarian and does not fall under if we want to attribute Karitas and the organisation within the church to organise and implement only some social programmes. Not them, not others, and that's why I think we're restricting them too much here. That is why, as we say, we will support our amendment, which does not narrow it down in this way, because voluntary work is also there, whether we recognize it or not, and if we like it within religious communities, or whether we do not like it. We estimate that voluntary work is where it is done, and that it must also be said that it is voluntary work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. As I said before, I know the preparation of this marriage is difficult, but I was afraid we'd get to it. It's not that important right now whether that limit is 24 hours or something. It's something else. If there is a lower limit, of course we have more organisations, more people to say statistically that they are involved in this voluntary work. That's right. But on the other hand, there is something else. If the limit is higher, otherwise we can reduce it, but the fact that someone has to do a voluntary job, then he has to write a report and then report it to someone. It's bureaucracy. If any report has to be submitted anywhere. Okay, even if once a year, but, uh, you're gonna have to lead this way. I don't know how many sand trucks there are. I don't know how many sand trucks there are. I don't know how many sand trucks there are. This must also be taken into account. I don't argue because I don't object to this law, so there won't be any misinterpretation. All I'm saying is that I'm always afraid that there's going to be a connection. It is said that this law will be linked, with the acquisition of status, to some kind of bureaucracy, administration, will have to write reports and something like that. I don't know what the real limit is. I know it's probably a record or something, and that's clear to me. Because practice will show, practice will actually show, and I only hope that this is a real border, but if it is not the right border, I hope that you will not object too much if initiatives are to make a difference in this area. I say this in advance, because sometimes it comes to someone who deals with this bureaucracy, not necessarily in this voluntary organization, but somewhere else, to dig in and hold on to it like a drunkard fence. If it turns out that maybe this bureaucracy, whatever it is, will become any developing bar, that this part of the law can change because I'm not afraid of volunteering, I don't have any problems there, but I have trouble writing anything else. It's usually like that, so one more time. I hope you found the right relationship. Consider whether 24 or 50 is the right limit. The hope that if it turns out that there is actually something that can be chocolate, we will be able to change that with these organisations on a simple path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u64	I unquestionably share this concern with you. The very involvement of the non-governmental sector in the drafting of this law has led to the fact that if I am trying to make this bureaucracy much easier at the most urgent level, which must be fulfilled, we will eventually get some data. It is not possible to give a certificate to a volunteer of the hours worked, unless one of the volunteer organisations manages a single sign of the name and surname with some data from the individual who carries out the work within the organisation. So the record in this report, this statement is agreed, some kind of aid, will be prepared by the Slovenian philanthropy as a form that can be used by societies as aid, here I fully agree with you that they are not initially inclined to write, record, but deal with what they think is smart to merge. It will be able to issue certificates from this record, which is important for the volunteer. From this record, once a year, only once a year, will it fill in a form that will be the same for all, in addition to the obligation that it must now fulfil on the basis of financial regulations, this is the annual report on Apes, which must be sent by all the organisations, societies, an integral part of this financial report will be another form where these three boxes, which I have previously listed, will be entered. That's the minimum that we're going to be carrying through Ipes, we're not going to burden anything else, we're going to collect them once a year, and we're going to see how many hours these hours have been spent in volunteer organisations. In fact, less could not be defined as the obligation of these voluntary organisations. Finally, in an important part of a voluntary organization, they already have all of these. They keep their membership records if you want, and it already exists. I would also like to respond to Member States' comparatively legal responses, where countries have systematicly regulated volunteering, do not include in the laws between voluntary organisations of political parties, religious organisations, trade unions, etc. The exceptions are for humanitarian organisations and Slovenian Karitas, I stress, Member, Slovenian representative Karitas participated exceptionally in the drafting of the law. I expressed my gratitude to her, of course, and Slovenian Karitas is organised as a legal person and also its branches are organised as legal persons. The care you've given us, of course, is too much. The other activities of political parties, if you want, through political underages, which are also socially beneficial, if you want, this is an organization of different days where young people meet, etc., and it will be possible to volunteer as long as these persons are registered as legal persons and we are not present today. That's not what we're witnessing today. We have also had many discussions with the political teenagers who wanted this activity, which is not necessarily merely politically oriented, and it is socially-beneficial in their assessment, it is a voluntary engagement of these people, but here today it is possible very quickly to organise and record all these socially beneficial activities. All these NGOs that have participated in the drafting of the law are, of course, aware of this and do not want these large interested member organisations for competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Articles 7 and 9? Yes, Mrs. Jeraj, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u66	I still can't agree with that. This case, which I gave to myself, knows the moratoriums, look, it's, after 310 parishes, 22 000 600 children are involved and now, to say all right, it's not generally good or we're not interested in it, it's not volunteering. I mean, we can tell ourselves it's volunteering. But why is such a dictatorship a problem for me? Because then some things will not be financed. Because if someone can't gain the status of a volunteer organization, don't tell me it won't, because it always is. We have the Law on Public Interest in Culture and all societies that are not, do not have this status to act in the public interest, because it is once again a procedure, they cannot participate in some calls because it is a condition that they are in the public interest. And here we're going to say OK, 6,000 800 volunteers we don't care about, we don't care, I don't know who the other volunteers are. Well, the representative of Karitas participated, you said fine, but the status of the humanitarian organization cannot be obtained by local committees or local exposition. As far as I know, it's only at national level. When they are included in the Foundation for Disability and Humanitarian Organizations. Oh. K., then I apologize if that's the case. If we have also granted the religious communities registered churches the Law on Religious Communities, that their work is of general benefit, why do we exclude them here? There is no logic here that there can be no volunteer organization or that it can only be part of it, but you have defined another part, humanitarian, called Karitas, and everything else cannot be. We don't agree with that. Therefore, we cannot support and insist on such dictions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 9 in our two paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you. Anyone else on Articles 7 and 9 and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to Article 18 and the amendment of SD and Really to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We turn to Article 23 and the amendment to this Article of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and SDS. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u68	I think we have similar suggestions here. It is about replacing "expertial work" with the word "self-employed work", because for professional work we would then need, it is said, a broader concept or we would set too harshly and we have already agreed on the committee that we will propose an amendment in this sense. In fact, they're identical if I'm right. We support this amendment in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We support this amendment. NGOs have also expressed a desire for such a definition, so that we do not have any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else on article 23? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u72	Here we have proposed deleting paragraph 4 of this Article. We propose that the first paragraph be amended to read: "The voluntary organisation shall, at the request of the volunteer, issue a certificate of voluntary work to the volunteer." In fact, the original diction is a little different. "Despite the form of the agreement, the voluntary organisation shall, at the request of the volunteer, issue a certificate of voluntary work to the volunteer." On the contrary, we have proposed that an agreement is not binding as to whether we have an oral agreement or a written one. It seemed to us that the oral arrangement could then be interpreted in its own way and explained exactly what they had agreed. We agree, however, that the organisation must issue a certificate to the volunteer if he so requests, not in any case, because it is not necessary that he needs it and it is just an additional administration. But if he demands it because he needs it to prove something, it's his duty to give it to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We have allowed two possible forms of agreement between a volunteer and a voluntary organisation on the way in which voluntary work is carried out, on the extent and so on, in the draft law, to avoid administration and bureaucratic burden. This is an oral agreement and a written agreement. For a written agreement, it is written in the law when it is recommended to accept. If a volunteer does volunteer work on the basis of an oral agreement, of course it is entered into the alert, the number of hours and so on. And the basic sentence of Article 24 says – so we estimate that it is more appropriate – "no matter the form of an agreement, a voluntary organisation is obliged, at the request of a volunteer, to issue a certificate of voluntary work to a volunteer." So, even if it is a relationship between an organisation and a volunteer based on an oral arrangement and someone is doing this volunteer work properly, as agreed, and the requirement in some point of the certificate, we cannot, of course, require that it then begins to be recorded. I am of the expert opinion that most volunteer work will be done on the basis of oral arrangements between a voluntary organisation and individuals. So it is certainly right that those who orally agree on the extent to which voluntary work is carried out also receive a certificate. I propose that we remain at the core of a law governing this relationship between a volunteer and a voluntary organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 24 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. Then we conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 38 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can't see my hand. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the 50th Article, where we have two amendments, namely the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the coalition. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a second-level proposal for a law on amendments to chemical laws and regulations. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I can't give my word for further explanation because the Minister is probably still on his way. The draft law, however, was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. You received the Committee's report before the meeting. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Ljubo Germich. [[He's not here.]] Andrej Magajna. [[He's not here.]] Andrea Richtar. [[She's not here.]] Ivan Grill. [[He's not here.]] Jakob Presečnik, please present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the law by which we adapt or align our legal order with the legal order of the European Union in view of the new regulation adopted in December 2008, by which the European Union adopted a different legislative approach and legislation in the field of chemicals instead of creating a regulation in directives. It does not appear to be such an important change in the law, but it is important because the provisions relating to the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, i.e. dangerous and harmful chemicals, are being corrected and complemented, and provisions directly applicable are being eliminated. As a rule, the Internal Market Services Directive does not allow national requirements as they impede the functioning of the common European market. Exceptions are only cases where such requirements can be justified for reasons of public interest, such as health, environment or public order and safety, and such requirements must not be discriminatory or disproportionate. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that in cases where cross-border services involve physical manipulation of dangerous chemicals, there is a need to maintain a balance between the two fundamental rights of European regulation, namely between the right to health and a clean and secure environment on the one hand and the right to free provision of services on the other. Although the Chemical Act has already laid down certain specific obligations with a view to the best possible and effective control of legal and natural persons engaged in chemical-related activities from the outset, it is necessary after ten years to re-establish the situation and the provisions and regulations adopted by the European Union, that is, third additions and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have a proposal for a novel on the Chemical Act. The proposed amendment to the law aims at aligning with the legal order of the European Union due to the newly adopted and amended regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. In order to take account of the hierarchy of legal acts of the European Union and national legislation and to avoid double regulation of the field of classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous chemicals, all the provisions that have regulated this area so far are deleted from the Chemical Law, as they are now fully and independently governed by the Regulation of the European Union. The proposal for amendments does not substantively change the other provisions for the management of risks by chemicals, as all the provisions governing the procedures and obligations of the debtors remain in force and remain unchanged, so the Members of our Group will support the amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Victory Jelinčič. [[He's not here.]] We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Community Establishment Act and Determination of Their Areas. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At its 10th meeting, on 18 January 2011, the draft law was addressed by the Home Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for this law and the procedure for adoption was somewhat unusual, rather complex and is not the subject of our everyday life, so it is no wonder that there were so many political and professional differences regarding the establishment of two new municipalities as envisaged. We have paid considerable attention to this process in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Since there were so many cross - minded thoughts, we set out the starting points on which we later thought. The first starting point is that we do not support the fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities, we did not first, we do not now, even in the future we do not invite them. There is no basis for this, nor in the European Charter in local government, nor in modern practices in Europe, nor in the coalition agreement that we have co-signed. The second thing that seemed unusual to us was a justification for the government's objective. The government says that it will harmonise its disagreements with Articles 9 and 135 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by adopting this law. When you look at these two articles, there is no single word to be found about the two specific congregations involved. Third, which is somewhat unusual, the proposaler argues that the establishment of a municipality would have no consequences, not in social life or social life, not in the field of social protection, not in the field of economy, development planning and spatial planning. That's impossible. This is contradictio and adjective because these tasks and the consequences of these constitutional tasks are commanded by the congregations. The municipalities must take care of these areas. It is not commanded exactly how, and it is commanded, and these tasks through the law of the local community have and must be managed and, of course, have consequences, especially if we have in mind 4 and a half million funds that have been discussed and which would be subject to subsequent division. The Constitutional Court is equally inconsistent with the Constitution in its decision – and we would like to say in this respect that we respect the Constitutional Court, but that does not mean that in any individual act of the Constitutional Court we should not consider, try to argue, and also what we should refer to as inappropriate after long consideration. This has happened in such a way that a whole range of experts, constitutional lawyers, have cited many of the important arguments that we have drawn to them and are, in our view, more convincing than the arguments of the Constitutional Court, whether it is a matter of dividing power into three branches or whether it is a right of self-explanation of a Member and a Member, or whether it is a right of conversion. We believe that this right is not available, which is consulted in a mandatory referendum, either because it is not in the National Assembly and not in the Constitutional Court, but in the State Council at the time of its adoption, you have even tried to argue and prove the existence of legal conditions which, after our judgment on the establishment of this congregation, are not. And since the Constitutional Court is not the one who should hold the Member or Member's finger and press "for", "against", "quorum" or nothing, we believe that it is right for Members and Members to make their own decisions after serious consideration. We believe that this has also been demonstrated in the process, because Members and Members of the position, opposition, not individual parties and not individual groups of Members have not voted together. This was an example of a couple of excellence when MEPs and Members tried to think with their heads and conscience, and we believe that such cases should be much more in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u82	In recent weeks, we have had Members and Members, not only us, but everyone interested in the topic of establishing the new congregation of Ankaran, to listen and read about the Constitutional Court's decision as the first-class and worst-case dispute between the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly. More. Many respected and respected lawyers have at the moment begun to make a loud and innocuous declaration that the Constitutional Court has far exceeded its authority to order Members and Members to require them to adopt the law as ordered by the Constitutional Court and to call on the National Assembly to resist such violence by the Constitutional Court. Fortunately, all of us who, in this confusion and the hot - blooded discourses of opposers of the Constitutional Court ruling or perhaps just the new congregation of Ankaran, wanted to know more than just this only saving truth. As well as the patient’s right to have a second opinion. We also awaited other opinions. It is interesting that one of these opinions strongly advocates the view that the National Assembly must follow its decisions in a consistent manner due to respect for the Constitutional Court, while the other, with a very reasoned explanation, Members and Members of Parliament, also explains to the Slovenian public that the National Assembly is by no means subordinated to either of the tops of the other two branches of the Authority, but "sorted", even in the case of the understanding and enforcement of the Constitution. In this view, the National Assembly certainly has the option of choosing to adopt or reject legislation in the legislative procedure, provided that the majority of Members and Members, after a thorough assessment and consideration, decide to adopt or reject the law, as required by the Constitutional Court, so as to take into account or disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And now we are under the Proposal for a Law establishing the Communities and determining their areas and the right of all 90 Members and Members to decide on it. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the law had to go through a second treatment in the competent working body. If the members and members of the Committee on Local Self-Government voted in favour or against an individual article and rejected them by voting and thus clearly expressed their attitude towards the establishment of the municipality of Ankara and at the same time their understanding of the relationship between the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly that it is their "refutable" attitude towards the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Committee's decisions could be considered as in principle and as an expression of a respectful but consistent understanding of the separation of the legislative and judicial branches of government. In this case, however, all other Members and Members, in this case 74, would be deprived of the right to decide what our view on both issues would be, but the integrity and reputation of the entire National Assembly would be significantly less affected than that of the Committee on Local Self-Government, when all 16 Members and Members present have been removed from the House in a humble manner in not deciding on all three articles of the Act. They have done something that is unacceptable, and I think we can say, even a shameful precedent in the 20-year history of this home democracy. In the Group of Social Democrats, opinions on the establishment of the congregation of Ankara have been divided from the beginning, but we certainly cannot pass over the fact that no one among us has expected such unreasonably unspoken conduct. At the very least, the Committee’s conduct has led to the fact that, by voting below on the Law establishing the Communities and determining their areas of G, it has attached its position to the Constitutional Court in its opinion on arbitration in relation to both laws. We have before us the possibility of a retrial offered by the People's Party. Thank you. It doesn't matter how we decide at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Whether in favour or against, the communication to the Ankarans and to the Constitutional Court must be as it is appropriate for the members of the highest body of the legislative branch of power, without concealment and hypocrisy, with a respectful attitude both towards the Ankarans and the Constitutional Court, with strong arguments and without unfair instigations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Milan Čadež will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u84	Dear Mr President, distinguished Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A good 15 years ago, the Constitutional Court ruled on the unconstitutionality of the Koper Congregation. In its decision, it stated that the municipality was unconstitutional because of the rural part of the municipality, which was not supposed to belong to the Municipality of Koper. This Decision has not been repealed until today. The establishment of the municipality of Ankara does not abolish the 1995 Constitutional Court decision, which will still remain the unconstitutional part in the Municipality of Koper. The position of the Council of Europe is also that the city of Koper should not be divided into more municipalities. After the then applicable Law establishing the municipalities, the new municipality of Ankara met all the conditions under Article 13a of the Law establishing the municipalities, as the Government also found in the preliminary finding procedure. The National Assembly gave a green light for the implementation of the preliminary finding referendum only for two proposals. These are the congregations of Mirna and Ankaran. However, there are no certificates for other areas which also met all the conditions under Article 13a of the Law establishing municipalities. The National Assembly has also acted arbitrarily in these cases and the Constitutional Court should also request a referendum for this area, and this Constitutional Court has not imposed on the National Assembly. In the process of establishing new municipalities in 2010, there were several irregularities committed by the National Assembly and the Government. The establishment of the new municipality of Ankara does not eliminate the unconstitutionality of the municipality of Koper, but it does not cause problems with the development of the port of Koper, as this project is of national importance and the municipality cannot affect the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, it gives only an opinion. With the new State importance project law, the implementation process is even simpler and faster and therefore these arguments do not hold back. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper must be resolved in a comprehensive manner, so that the development of the economy in this part of Slovenia, which is important for development, particularly logistics, is important for the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have witnessed an unusual event, an arbitration found by the Constitutional Judges, not only was it confirmed in the conduct of the National Assembly, but it was precisely by the indecisiveness and the suspension or conclusion of the procedure by the Local Self-Government Committee that this arbitration has been given a new dimension, a new dimension that must concern us. Recently, I spoke to a friend from Koroška who was very concerned about the relationship and the trend that is increasingly evident, both in Austria and in us, the evaluation of certain positions, the decisions of the highest supervisory authority — the Constitutional Court. You know what this means for Koroscas, as Mr Haider and his supporters laughed at the Constitutional Court's decisions on bilinguality, in a similar way some went to the Constitutional Court's decision on the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran. We are interesting witnesses and very well organised campaigns not only against the Constitutional Court's decision, but against the legitimacy of constitutional judges. The debate is not just academic, but it has a strong political connotation. I, as a Member, am very concerned about this, also because I was deprived of the right to decide on this issue. The smaller group of Members, due to a certain confusion that arose that day on the local self-government committee, did not define it. The effect of this non-definition is that the procedure has been closed, stopped without even discussing this law today. This has been legalised by institutionalised arbitration, and it is likely that the rules of procedure and the system allowing such paradoxes to be created should also be discussed. The fact is that everything was legal, everything was in accordance with the rules of procedure, and the fact is that today we are discussing something that does not exist at all, about a law that is not empty, and therefore today we will not vote on the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara and we will not realize what the Constitutional Court ruling says. So we are well aware that this problem has exceeded the local boundaries of the congregation of Ankaran or the congregation of Koper. Indeed, we have always had a shared opinion on this issue, but most Members have united, and this vast majority of Members have united at the moment when the referendum was held, that is, when the people's will was expressed, and the second time that people's will was respected by the Constitutional Court. In the meantime we – Members of Parliament with our arbitration. And this, look, is a political problem and also an institutional problem. For a Member can vote on everything on his own conscience, and not listen to anyone, but when he votes on unconstitutional matters, he is obliged to ask himself whether it is in accordance with his mission or not. That is why I also thank the Group of the People's Party, which has already tabled a new bill. We will support it and therefore also collect signatures for an extraordinary session. I hope that we will finally meet our constitutional criteria, as well as the mission of all Members and Members of the National Assembly, at this correctional exam.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u88	Very nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues, Vice President, Madam Minister! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are deeply disappointed by the decisions of some Members in the National Assembly to prevent the constitutional rights of the people of Ankara, who have made a clear decision for their municipality more than 14 months ago. We are also, and we are particularly disappointed, that there can be any doubt as to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which on 16 November 2010 found discrepancies in the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the basis for the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, as well as the municipality of Mirna. As a member of the fourth term, I am not surprised. There have already been fellow Members here who have made it clear that there is no President and there is no God to force them to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The decisions of the Constitutional Court should simply be respected. Pika. And from here on out, we can think whatever we want, but that's the rule of law. At the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we assess the behaviour of the coalition and the work of the opposition at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, where there was a debate on that law as extremely inappropriate and unworthy of the National Assembly, as the duality of the Slovenian rule of law was clearly demonstrated at this meeting. In deciding on the establishment of the municipality of Mirna, the decision of the Constitutional Court was taken into account without the slightest doubt. While, in the case of the new municipality of Ankara, a plasma of criticism was poured over this same decision, the result of which was the non-voting of that law, thus stopping the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. The plasma of critiques is, of course, allowed, but the Constitutional Court's decision, despite all this, must be respected. This is simply the wrong world, and by doing so it is not a legal state. And now a little mea maxima culpa. Members of the Slovenian People's Party regret, too personally, that I was not present at this meeting, and was instead an alternate Member, that due to the current inadvisability of our two fellow Members at the Committee's meeting there was abstention in the vote on the proposed law. With our two votes, it would be clear that the coalition and part of the opposition opposes the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, the scenario was also prepared for such a situation. All of this is to prevent the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. That is why the mea maxima culpa not only in words, but also in the Slovenian People's Party have taken two measures. First time. That is why we are Members of the Slovenian People's Party immediately, immediately the following day, 19. 1. Thus, on the day following the rejection of the draft law on the committee responsible, a new proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas has been tabled in the legislative procedure, in order to ensure compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. The decision of the Constitutional Court in paragraph 2 requires us, the Council of State, that we have to abolish the findings of non-compliance with the Constitution within two months. This is said on February 7th. We're on the 1st. We still have a little time. And the second step we've taken. We have called on the Government to table the same draft law on its own as a matter of urgency, so that this bill will already be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly, which is currently taking place today. This government has responded exactly as it did to this proposal, as Heather, already deceased, has, as my colleague has said before me, regarding the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court on topography. Members of the Slovenian People's Party wanted our proposal for a law to be dealt with at this meeting, which would allow, therefore, an urgent procedure to remedy this illegal state. We therefore hope that an extraordinary meeting will be convened as soon as possible to allow the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran and, of course, respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas. Once again in the National Assembly, we are considering the process of establishing the new congregation of Ankaran, and, as far as we hear, we can be sure that this is not the last thing that we will consider with this content and that we will meet with this proposal in this Chamber. This time a proposal for a law establishing a new municipality was tabled by the Government on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 26. 11. 2010 The Constitutional Court has decided that the existing law establishing municipalities and establishing their territories is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it does not contain provisions laying down the municipalities of Ankara and the municipality of Mirna. Therefore, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to carry out this non-compliance within two months of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. However, since the articles of the proposed law were not adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the legislative procedure is terminated. So here we could also conclude our debate, but let me avoid misinterpretations and interpretations of the opinion of the DeSUS Group some of our opinions and views. That there are shared opinions not only within Parliament but also within the Constitutional Court is, in our opinion, evidence that the establishment of new municipalities is a very sensitive topic. On the one hand, we all know that Slovenia is too small, that municipalities should be divided into even smaller units unable to provide their own operations and funding, and that these small municipalities should be encouraged to unite. For the United States would be able to function more easily and provide its citizens with the necessary infrastructure and meet their needs. Of course, we must also say that the DeSUS programme defines that we oppose further division into small municipalities, which also coincides with the position of DeSUS Municipal Committee, which opposed the formation of the new Ankaran municipality. Nor do we need to go beyond the fact and position of the Italian national community, which points out the non-compliance with Article 8 of the 1975 Interim Agreement and the London Memorandum, which opposes and leads to non-support for the establishment of the Ankaran municipality. On the other hand, there remain strong local interests and a handful of people who would like to lead these new, newly established small municipalities, whether functional or not. These lobbies interpret the European Charter on Local Self-Government, ratified by Slovenia in 1996. For the Charter speaks of a local community, but it does not give the right to the congregations, which some misinterpret. The Charter stresses the need to establish local communities capable of regulating and carrying out an important part of public affairs with their own responsibilities for the benefit of the local population. However, small congregations, according to our assessment, are not capable of doing so, so we should not establish them. In the DeSUS Group, we also join Dr. Kristana's opinion in assessing that the Constitutional Court, by its decision, has infringed on the principle of the division of power into the independence of the National Assembly and in the constitutional position of a Member to act in accordance with its conscience. The Constitutional Court has reached out to the legislative branch itself. The fact is that the Municipality of Ankara does not meet the legal conditions for the establishment of a municipality, but the will of the people is expressed in the referendum in favour of the establishment of a new municipality despite the failure to meet the legal conditions. For Members of the DeSUS Group, this has always been a fundamental dilemma. Failure to meet the legal conditions contrary to the will of the people and this dilemma still exists today. If we voted on this point, then the Members of the DeSUS Group would have made an absolute decision in their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister-in-Charge – probably for the next few points – dear colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we have for a long time warned that the establishment of new municipalities must not and cannot be the course of this country's conduct, that the municipalities are too large to come at a time when it is necessary to consider uniting municipalities rather than sharing them. That everything so far had not been respected by the Law establishing the congregations, which had a precise decision, and that this had been done according to the political will of the left or right option or the central one, since it did not matter which. Madam Minister, now you will see how hard work awaits you. However, it is certainly true that we now have a law that was passed last year, which is very precise, as far as meeting the conditions is concerned, and that the time has actually come for regionalisation to settle the issue of where the spears always break. So much in general. Now it is very specific to the proposed law. The Slovenian national party does not support the proposed law. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the Constitutional Court, in its proceedings for the establishment of municipalities and in its last decision, has exceeded, we are convinced that the Constitutional Court has exceeded its constitutional control function. In our opinion, the Constitutional Court has also reached out to the principle of the division of power. Not only did the Constitutional Court become involved in the legislative function, but it went even further, it hoped to go even into the operational function and tried to order the National Assembly, in addition to which specific law the National Assembly must adopt, how it must adopt the amendment of the law. While the Constitutional Court, as far as we are aware, did not give a complete explanation as to why the National Assembly, by rejecting the law, would violate the Constitution. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that certainly the failure of the municipalities of Ankara and Mirna does not constitute a violation of the Constitution. We're sure of that. No statement by the Constitutional Court of the National Assembly that it is in violation of the Constitution is admissible. It is not acceptable – not substantively, if we look at the specific comparison of Ankaran and Mirna, it is also not formally acceptable for Mirna, because it is an essential difference. The National Assembly for the Establishment of the Municipality of Mirna did not refuse, but terminated the procedure. However, for Ankaran, the procedure was formally completed and a new legislative procedure is being initiated, whereby it is, of course, necessary to determine whether the municipality of Ankara meets the legal conditions for the establishment of a new municipality. In addition, it is worrying that the Constitutional Court has assumed the role of legislator, has begun to take political decisions and has suddenly appointed the National Assembly as the legislative branch of the executive or executive branch of power and that we are now to carry out something that the Constitutional Court, as one of the three independent branches of government, has determined. The Slovenian National Party, which, of course, no longer believes in the legal state of the Republic of Slovenia, as we have pointed out a million times, this time again, is still considered to be limited in that country, as long as the authority of the Constitutional Court is limited as the authority of the other two branches of government, that in its work the Constitutional Court must respect the principle of division, the second doctrine of political issues and the third time of judicial restraint. We do not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. In the new procedures, I hope that we will once again become at least a little legal state and that we will respect the provisions of the law that we adopted together last year, which specifies exactly what and who can become a congregation. But of course, it is also good for one of us or for most of us to remember, of course, national interests, but not just partial interests. [[...]] [[Michorone shutdown]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u93	Mr. Barovich, thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its meeting on 25 September 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decree on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities or for the change of their areas, including the referendum area, which was part of the Municipality of Koper and was to be expelled from the Municipality of Koper to the new municipality of Ankaran. The referendum was held at 8. 11. In 2009, voters and voters made their will clear at this referendum following the formation of the new Ankaran congregation. With the clear will of the people and the people of Ankara, it would be worth noting that the Constitutional Court's decision, which today gives us this item on the agenda, is not the only decision of this court on Koper and Ankaran. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia once decided that the municipality of Koper should be broken down into smaller parts. The failure to establish the municipality of Ankara is thus one of the oldest unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas has been tabled again. We have always supported the right of the inhabitants and inhabitants of Slovenia to local self-government in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Since Ankarans and Ankarans have decided to want their own municipality, which meets the criteria required by law for the formation of the municipality, we will also support the law recently introduced by the People's Party in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. We have also signed a proposal for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject. We regret that the Committee on Local Self-Government has created this problem of an unvoted decision or the adoption of a law establishing the municipality of Ankara. Notwithstanding the fact that the Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Communities was adopted during this time of the National Assembly, since the procedure for the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran started to run under the old law, it should also, of course, be completed or otherwise not adopted by a decision on the invitation to a referendum on the possibility of the expulsion of Ankara from the Koper municipality, since by this adoption of the decision and the invitation to a referendum, we in some way gave false hope to the Ankarans and the Ankarans that they could reach their congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE COMMUNITY LAW AND THE DETERMINATION OF THEIR AREAS, ORDERAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Mr Anton Anderlic. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Renata Brunskole's representatives. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues welcome! At its meeting on 25 September 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decree on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities or for the change of their areas, including the referendum area, which was part of the municipality of Trebnje and was to be removed from the municipality of Trebnje to the new municipality of Mirna. The referendum was held on 8 November 2009. The electorate and the electorate made their will clear at this referendum following the formation of the new Mirna Congregation. At the same time, it would be particularly noteworthy that the formation of the new congregation was also supported by the congregation of Trebnje, from which the new congregation of Mirna was to be formed. We have a situation in which residents and residents of an area clearly express their will under the law after the establishment of their own congregation, which meets the legally established criteria that municipalities must meet. This law, which lays down these conditions, has adopted the National Assembly, which we are sitting in today. The National Assembly also adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees its citizens and citizens the right to local self-government. It would be expected that there can be no complications in this situation. The will of the people is clearly expressed in accordance with the law and the Constitution, but this so-called 'Mirna Municipality' saga has been dragged or dragged through because of such and different conditions or complications. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have the opportunity for some types, as they say, of the correctional exam passed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The argument that the new municipalities should not be allowed to arise because the fragmented Slovenia is harmful to the new municipalities does not hold a purely serious judgment. The new congregation of Mirna, for which both the Government and the National Assembly have found that it fulfils the conditions laid down by law, is already the result of cooperation and association with the municipalities of Šentrupert, Mokronog-Trebel and the congregation of Trebnje. It is a story of cooperation and integration at local level. It is sometimes necessary to understand that the sum of individual parts may be greater than the whole, but today's debate is not about whether the division of Slovenia into more municipalities is meaningful or not, nor is it about regional policy or whether the debate on local self-government. Today's agenda is the duty of this assembly, the duty of Members and Members to respect the laws and the Constitution adopted by this assembly. This means that we would not interfere with the citizen and the citizens of the future new congregation of Mirna on the road chosen by them in accordance with the Constitution and the law. S As one of the candidates for the establishment of the new congregation of Mirna, I should also say that in this case it is actually a case of secession from the congregation of Trebnje and then a future merger of three municipalities into one larger municipality. Therefore, it is right that we finally complete this entourage and that we come to the founding of the congregation of Mirna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. Mrs Brunskole, when you are already speaking for the speaker, I ask you to submit a report to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which, as a working mother, addressed the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 16th urgent meeting on 17 June 2010, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, on the basis of a request from the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia of 3 June 2010 and at its 10th regular meeting on 18 January 2011, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas to be considered and adopted by the Group of Members, signed by Anton Anderlic. The President of the National Assembly sent the draft law before the first hearing to the municipal councils and mayors of the municipalities of Trebnje and Sveti Jurij. The Committee was informed before the hearing at the meeting on 17 June and at the meeting on 18 January 2011 of the request of the LDS Member Club, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the letters of the Mayor of Trebnje, the opinion of the Mayor of the Municipality of Sveti Jurij, the letters of the residents and residents of the Kraljevna Community of Mirna and the Municipality of Ankara, the letters of the mayors of Mokronog, Trebelno and Šentrupert, the letter of the Council of the Kraljena Community of Mirna in Dolenjska and the opinions of the municipal council of Trebnje. Before hearing at the meeting on 18 January 2011, the Committee was also informed of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the separate opinions on the decision and the material of the Constitutional Court to decide the essential reasons for the decision on the constitutionality of the contested law. At its 16th emergency meeting, on 17 June 2010, Member Anton Anderlič, on behalf of the law's proponents, in an additional explanation of the articles of the bill, drew attention to the letters of the inhabitants and residents of the National Community of Mirna and the mayors, councillors and councillors of the municipal councils of neighbouring municipalities, in which they asked Members and Members of the National Assembly to make every effort to enable them to make preparations for this local elections both in the municipality of Trebnje and in the municipality of Mirna. The National Assembly has decided on the proposal for a law three times and has decided that the proposed area of the new congregation of Mirna meets the legal conditions for the establishment of the congregation and has called for a referendum. At the referendum, voters expressed their majority will to establish a new congregation of Mirna, thus fulfilling all the legal conditions for the establishment of the Mirna municipality. In its opinion, the Government was of the opinion that their situation in the public administration system would deteriorate with the fragmentation of municipalities and that this process should be completed. In the second reading of the bill, however, the Government added nothing to its first reading opinion. Of course, the Government also pointed out that municipalities differ greatly in their capacity to implement the Constitution and the law-ordered system of local self-government and assessed that a large part of municipalities, especially those who do not meet the basic population criteria, are more difficult to carry out their tasks in accordance with the principles of functional and financial autonomy. In its opinion on the law submitted, the legislature found that it represented only the final stage of the new procedure in which the previous procedure had not been carried out. At its 16th urgent meeting, on 17 June, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them by six votes in favour and five against. In the second reading of the draft law at its 16th urgent meeting, on 17 June, a report was prepared which was not signed by the Chairman of the Committee on the basis of his later finding that it had come to the Committee's vote on all articles of the bill to irregularity, which had a decisive impact on the outcome of the vote. On the basis of the above, the National Assembly did not consider the draft law, which was included on the agenda of its regular meeting. The Constitutional Court subsequently, by a decision published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 7 December 2010, decided that the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their territories in breach of the Constitution, since it does not contain provisions concerning the Municipality of Ankara and the Municipality of Mirna, and ordered the National Assembly to remove this non-compliance within two months of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal. At the last meeting of the Committee, on 18 January, a decision was taken on the establishment of the municipality, and it adopted a decision with six votes in favour, without a vote against. In view of this, the Committee continued its meeting by voting on all the articles of the bill, and there was no further discussion on the draft law. Some members of the committee gave a more detailed explanation of vote before the vote. I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a decision, i.e. a proposal for a law in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. The opinion of the Government will be presented by Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u100	Dear Presidents, Members, Members of Parliament, Minister! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their territories concerns the establishment of a new congregation of Mirna and the change of the name of the municipality of Sveti Juri. The government has cooperated with its opinion and proposal in the process of the proposed amendments so far and, following a referendum on the establishment of a new municipality in accordance with the established practice of respect for the will of the population, has drawn up a law on which the procedure has been completed. In the procedure for the establishment of the municipality, the Government stressed that the period of implementation of the new system of local self-government was a process that lasted a decade and a half and led to a large number of municipalities, which differ greatly in their capacity to implement the Constitution and the law-ordered system of local self-government. In doing so, the Government assessed that a large part of the municipalities, especially those who do not meet the basic population criterion, are more difficult to carry out their tasks in accordance with the principles of functional and financial autonomy. In its opinions, the government also stressed that the situation would deteriorate further by establishing new municipalities and that it did not support the further process of establishing municipalities. By Decision 137/10-47, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their territories was inconsistent with the Constitution, since it did not contain provisions on the municipality of Ankara and the municipality of Mirna, inter alia, it ordered the National Assembly to remove this non-compliance within two months. In view of the above, the Government does not oppose the continuation of the procedure for the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you. Since the National Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 24th extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. That is why I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobic. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u102	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The law before you has been introduced in a reduced procedure and contains minor corrections to the existing law. The fact is that we are also planning a completely new law, but it is a prerequisite for it to adopt a new research innovation strategy for Slovenia, which was held in last year's intensive public debate and is currently in the stage of intersectoral coordination, and is expected to be in the State Assembly in the final assessment or adoption. The reasons that led us to this novel are multilayered, and all are in line with minor changes. On the one hand, we wanted to correct the provision in the law which sets out the composition of the boards of directors of public research institutions, institutes. Here we want to strengthen the autonomy of these institutions and change the composition in a way that the founder, i.e. the Government, will no longer have a majority in these administrative committees, but the relationship, approximately a third, will be established between employees' representatives, the founder and the user or the public concerned. The second amendment is linked to the previously mentioned research and innovation strategy. The law, as it is now in force, defines this key strategic document as a national research and development programme and puts it in place for a five-year period. Last year, the Science and Technology Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is composed of all stakeholders in this research area, proposed starting points for the preparation of a new national research and development programme and redefined it to some extent. He also wanted innovation policy to be included in this strategic document. In this context, we are preparing a new research and innovation strategy for Slovenia, in this sense we need to lay down a law defining this strategic document in the previous way, to be corrected, thus allowing the consideration of the strategic document containing the innovation package, and to allow this document to cover a wider period, not just five years, but ten years, which has also been adopted through public debate practically by all other stakeholders. At the same time, since the old strategy, the old national-exploratory development programme, has expired this year, this amendment also regulates this transitional period of these few months until the adoption of the new strategy. One of the things that was exposed at that time during the last year and a half, when the debate on this novel was actually held, was the need to regulate the appeal procedure at the ARSO Research Agency. In this sense, in this specific law, that the provisions on the Law on Public Agencies governing this area are not actually sufficient. In this respect, we have identified a legal remedy against the decision of the Agency, which is called an objection. This objection is then decided upon by the Management Board of the Agency. This is a regulation that many countries of the European Union know about, and we also implement it in individual laws, such as the law on graduation. We give in this law, which was actually one of the key debates or the most exposed in the home working body, including the legal basis for determining complementary measures for the implementation of the scientific research policy that have been developed and implemented within the Ministry for the past five, six years, and not within the framework of the agencies mentioned above. These include calls from the Structural Funds for calls for calls for international projects, ERA-NET and Eureka, and calls for science promotion. So the idea is that these calls at the initial stage as some kind of intervention into the existing research policy would remain within the competence of the ministry, but if they develop to a level that allows their periodicity and stability, they would be transferred to the future within the competence of the agencies mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Mag. Branku Grims. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u104	Your Honor! I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development addressed this proposal at its 13th regular meeting on 18 January this year. We took note of the support expressed by the Commission of the National Council for Culture and of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services, which were quite extensive, and were informed by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service that most of their comments were properly regulated in the amendments tabled by the coalition and some by the opposition. However, it noted that one part of the comments concerning Article 7 of this proposal is still inadequately regulated and is not sufficiently taken into account. It is a matter of remedying procedural shortcomings in relation to the objection and of introducing that terminology is used in procedural laws, where there are still no further reasons for excluding the complaint against the decision of the Agency. Here we know that the Constitutional Court is also very sensitive to these solutions, because the right to appeal or the right to judicial protection is a constitutional right and there must be particular reasons to exclude it at any time. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, this constitutes a derogation from the system-wide regulation in the Law on Public Agencies. It was also pointed out that the reasons for the objection, despite the proposed amendment of the coalition, which was later adopted, were still limited and that the explanation sent by the Ministry was not entirely sufficient. Mr Golobič, as Minister, said that we are adopting the law for the purpose of regulating the things he had pointed out in the introduction and that it is primarily about remedying the shortcomings of the current law. Later, however, there was much debate regarding Article 9 of the proposed amendment, as it introduces two-tier funding, with the Minister's reply that it was in fact only a matter of legal practice being enacted so far. In the end, amendments to the coalition were adopted and all amendments of the opposition or of the SDS were rejected, which was why the law was supported in the final vote only by the votes of the coalition and was therefore adopted at the second stage of the Committee's hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u106	Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a new Law on Research and Development. The minor changes made by the proposal are the regulation of the opposition procedure against the Agency's decision on the selection of programmes and projects, the creation of a normative basis for the basic programming document for research and development activities, and the determination that funding for this activity is also intended for research equipment and research infrastructure. We therefore understand the law's addition as preparing for more extensive legislative changes based on a strategy. However, the most important amendment to the law concerns the composition of the management body of public institutions in the field of research and development. Social Democrats support the participation of employees and users in public institutions, and we therefore welcome the abolition of the unimaginable amendment of the 2005 law. The then government introduced into the National Assembly a new law on research and development activities with only one article. With it they changed the composition of the board of the board of directors of research institutions by having the founder, namely the Government, the majority of the members of the Council. This led to the imposition of leverage for political influence, thereby ensuring that the functioning of the institution was subordinated to the interests of the Government and not to the interests of employees and users. With the law before us, this anomaly is being removed, since from now none of the partners in the tripartite system will have a majority. The highlighted role of employees and users will therefore ensure greater autonomy of public institutions while allowing the founder to exercise a supervisory function. This creates a real partnership and an encouraging environment for generating new ideas. The proposed novel allows the competent ministry to finance complementary actions under the research and innovation strategy if budgetary resources are provided and funding is included in the annual work programme. We support any additional possibility of providing funding for research and development activities, at the same time we expect that the implementation of this part of the law will in practice shed light on the appropriateness of the allocation of funds by the competent ministry. It should be borne in mind, however, that neither the decisions of the agencies which assess the functioning of public interests for various projects are always immune to the disapproval and misunderstandings brought by, in particular, unelected tenderers. In the Social Democrats Group, we support institutional organisation of funding and direction of research activities through established agencies, but we believe that when adopting the predicted normative changes in the future, their concept, placement and role in the institutional structure should be defined more clearly and strengthened. As it is said, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on research and development activities, and for that reason we do not support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u108	Dearly beloved, once again a very nice greeting to all, even this time on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support some of the proposed solutions, in particular with regard to investing in equipment, on matters that are in favour of Slovenian science, but at the same time we note that the proposal for a law has a great weakness because it did not want to listen to warnings and adopt the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, it is worth recalling that the current ruling coalition has been applying the principle of putting one new agency for another, namely, repeatedly with the same reasoning, for the same reason that it has been cited as the basis for the establishment of another new institution, which means more money or new functional salary, namely that these agencies have a more independent division of money, a more transparent division of money, a less policy-dependent distribution of money, as well as a different independent, neutral option of evaluation offered by such agencies, and that this is why this policy does not only wish to be implemented in the field of science by the current government. Now, in Article 9, this law applies quite the opposite, asserts the duality of funding, so that, in addition to the agency responsible for the management and execution of calls, one part of these funds would also be financed directly by the Ministry for the professional evaluation, i.e. for the evaluation. This opens up a very wide space for the free judgement of the Minister and the Ministry and raises the question of why the Agency is needed. In this way, it is practical to give the Agency a non-trust in this area, as it opens an additional space for the ministry, and it also puts directly into lie the whole of this policy of setting up a new agency, one after the other, meaning a more neutral, more professional, more well-balanced allocation of resources shared from the public budget to different users. Why in this case the coalition is lying to itself and why the ministry is proposing this is difficult to explain. The Minister's explanation at the meeting itself was that they were merely legitimizing something that they were already practicing, which is said to be the basis for their own legal practice, which apparently did not have a legal basis so far, because it was also a very interesting recognition of the Minister, which means that they had been sharing money without a legal basis, at least in this part, if this was actually the case as it was presented at the meeting. On the other hand, it raises the question of who or why this is necessary and to whom it is intended. At the same time, it raises, as it is said, the whole policy of establishing ever-increasing agencies and independent institutions, and it is very difficult to convince anyone else in Slovenia that it is not the sole purpose of all these independent institutions, which, of course, are already politically exposed at the legislative level, only to maintain power even after the voters have taken it away from you in the next elections. For, of course, if any change is to be made, it is necessary to amend the laws, and all appropriate steps must be taken at this level before any other policy can be implemented. But this policy, as we say, costs a lot. All these agencies bear certain costs, their establishment entails certain costs, even when it comes only to the transfer of a large proportion of people and competences. The question is whether this is justified in the current acute economic situation. By exercising the duality of funding yourself in this area, you are in fact admitting that this is not justified for this reason, because we want things to be transparent in order to prove and demonstrate whether the solutions when you set up an agency in this area, by claiming that it is an appropriate evaluation, for a more appropriate allocation of funds, for a more neutral allocation of funds, are indeed justified. We propose that this Article be fully deleted and that there is therefore a single, transparent financing, in line with European standards, in this area as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Lojze Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, in the Group of Members, we will unanimously support the proposal for amendments to the Law on Research and Development for reasons very clearly presented in the presentation. I think that what is most valuable and what has also been highlighted in the Committee on Higher Education by most debaters is that these changes have been prepared in a way that is only necessary for research and development. This is a sensitive activity where special conditions are needed, which is why the intervention of the previous government in this area has been so irresponsible. It was very nice to hear how coordinated and how all stakeholders in the committee welcomed this change in decision-making, according to a third of the participation of all, supported all the announced changes in the new comprehensive law to regulate these areas, and also what needs to be regulated legally so that the procedures for awarding funds can run properly, transparently and that all those who participated in the committee were very pleased with the proposed solutions. Obviously, some of what we have also heard in the previous presentation, but even with such small changes in good development and research, they are not satisfied. As we say, in the Emissary Group, we will truly support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the amendments to the Law on Research and Development which go towards greater autonomy of public research or infrastructure institutions and the improvement of shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the applicable law on research and development activities. An essential amendment to this amendment is the regulation of the ratio in the number of members of the Management Board of Public Research Institutions, which works for representatives of public service employees and representatives of service users or of the public interest, and reduces the number of representatives of the State in the Management Board of the Institute. This is in line with the provisions of the Law on Institutions, which according to the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will improve the functioning of the boards of directors, in particular as regards autonomy in decision-making. The decisions of the boards of directors, public research and infrastructure institutions must go towards the greatest possible integration of institutions with the economy, as knowledge coming from such institutions is crucial in ensuring the higher added value of our economy. There will be a lot of talk about this when the research and innovation strategy of Slovenia arrives 2012/2020 in the National Assembly. With regard to the proposed amendment to Article 9 tabled by the SDS Group of Members of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that there is a fear of double funding for the research and development sphere, as this area is already financed through the Agency for the Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposed arrangement could reduce the transparency of funding. On the other hand, the question is whether funding for research and development activities is so transparent, given that we have recently heard that the names of the reviewers who assess the work of individual research groups and whose assessment is crucial in the distribution of public funds are secret, although the information authority considers that the name of the reviewer, together with its work area, does not show such information as disclosure would cause disruption to the functioning of the Research and Development Agency. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we expect the Ministry responsible to regulate this area more appropriately in the new law on research and development activities, whose proposal is to be prepared after the adoption of the research and innovation strategy. Nevertheless, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, as has already been said, will support the amendment of the Law on Research and Development Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development Activities. We therefore have before us the Proposal for a New Law on Research and Development Activities. The main objective of the proposal for a new law is to make less difficult amendments and supplements to the current law, which will address in particular the legal shortcomings and the non-practical or inadequate legal solution concerning the structure of the administrative committees of public research institutions and public infrastructure institutions. Thus, the novelty of Article 12 concerning the new composition of the administrative committees of public research and infrastructure institutions is essential. The amendment, according to our assessment to the Management Board, strengthens the role of representatives of the institution and users, reducing the number of representatives of the founder, i.e. the state, makes it possible to function effectively and enhances the autonomy of the decision-making process. The proposal for a novelty is also concluded with all representative unions, which we think is good. The applicant also supported this solution in the paper by amending the ENRP's current national research and development programme into a comprehensive innovation system, as defined in the draft new Slovenian research and innovation strategy for the period until 2010, which also means harmonisation with the European Union. So this last and all the rest of what I've listed is surely what convinces Members of the DeSUS Group that the novel is good, so we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to remedy certain shortcomings as soon as possible, which hinder research and development activities in our area and do not allow for the optimal spillage of benefits resulting from such activities in the economy. The draft law interferes with the regulation defining the composition of the administrative committees of research institutions in such a way that none of these three stakeholders have a majority. The proposal for a legal novel re-establishes a third relationship between representatives of the founder, representatives of employees and representatives of service users or of the public concerned. This also increases the autonomy of public research institutions, which we have always advocated in the Liberal Democracy and which is also one of the directions for the new research-innovation strategy. In doing so, we would like to point out that in the LDS we see an equivalent three-partite arrangement of the composition of the boards of the research institutes as one of the important contributions of this amendment to the law. We believe that innovation and the practical applicability of academic achievements are one of the fundamental components of competitiveness and an important step on the way to a knowledge society. In the LDS, we therefore rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to remove representatives of the founder for the reasons set out above from the composition of the Management Boards. We are, of course, surprised to see the motion for this amendment that, in a very short time, from the past to this term, he has changed his position when he advocated the majority composition of the boards of directors by the founder until the proposal that these representatives of the boards should be deleted. At the LDS, we agree that researchers are essential in research and development activities, and we are therefore aware that creating an appropriate support environment, including adequate and necessary funding for R & D and innovative activities, is crucial. Only in this way will we avoid stagnation and falling behind the development train, which, with the economic social consequences it brings, is the only guarantee for the prevention of crisis periods, such as what we are currently in. Competitiveness and thus economic and social well-being are the consequences of the state of innovation of a society's system, i.e. the system that generates new jobs with higher added value, which means long-term security, employment and the maintenance of the standard quality of life that we find acceptable in our society. This innovation system, which is based on successful research and development activities, is perhaps the most representative of the word link that is so popular today with 'national interest'. At the LDS, we believe that if we want to follow the so-called consensus and prosperity companies, which represent the highest level of competitiveness and economic social well-being, we need to follow the trends in the integration of all stakeholders in the R & D and innovation field, which allow for this kind of prosperity. At the same time, we believe that the proposal for a law is positive in that it places particular emphasis on the promotion of research work, which has not enabled the law so far. Knowledge and knowledge products, which are reflected in research results or in innovation, must be marketed. The success of Slovenian researchers and researchers deserves more attention and promotion, and it is right that the law also allows this. With regard to new legal solutions, a high level of consensus was reached for all stakeholders involved. Since we believe that the bill represents a meaningful strategic direction for the functioning of the Slovenian innovation system in the future, we will support the proposal for a law in the LDS Club. Finally, this law represents an important step forward in the broader design of a comprehensive development and innovation system in Slovenia, in which all stakeholders, both scientists and the economy and the country, must participate. The law therefore builds on the existing research and development programme into the R & D investment guidance programme and introduces a research innovation strategy in Slovenia by 2020, which is in preparation and will enable Slovenian knowledge and economy to have a qualitative competitive breakthrough in the knowledge society. In doing so, we also expect that all those who will also decide on the content of this strategy will also be able to realise the commitment that talks about raising the necessary resources for research and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u118	Your Honor! The amendment of the law essentially refers to Article 12 of the Act, which refers to the new composition of the administrative committees of public research and infrastructure institutions. This is a reduction in the number of representatives of the founder, the state. It thus enables effective functioning and enhances the autonomy of decision-making, i.e. at the expense of the role of representatives and users. The discussions focused on the possibility of double funding, but this has been possible so far. The new law on research and development activities, which will be put into the process after the adoption of Slovenia's research and innovation strategy, is likely to address this issue more explicitly. The proposed amendment is being considered following a reduced procedure and, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments and legislative amendments, we will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 31. 1. 2011. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u120	I must say that I am not surprised, but I am somewhat disappointed because no one wants to listen to the proposal that it should be done as follows from the words that have followed all your political decisions when individual agencies are set up. Now you are going in the very opposite direction and you are lying to yourself with this duality of funding, which will certainly not help in any way to increase transparency, but probably not to make more rational use of taxpayers' funds, because it is really about them. Some of you have made this obvious political decision to insist on this duality aimed at ultra-financing of the god of whom you have persisted to the end and have criticised the previous government. You know, after two years of economic decay and the decline of Slovenia, which we have witnessed, it's not very convincing to listen to such criticisms over and over again, and it's probably not too smart for you to do it. But let me listen to you and let me warn you, what in terms of the current government means this proposal or solution that is offered in the law and you are defending it. By the way, the minister himself predicted that this solution would be of a short-term nature, since the following law would otherwise regulate it. So it's an intermediate time that's obviously unnecessary, but it's okay. When we talk about what this means for your government, you will probably all agree that this means some additional burden for the government or the direct ministry, because now the law imposes upon it the obligation to distribute these funds directly. Now I would remind you that just a few days ago we witnessed a coalition meeting at the summit, after which the leader of the largest parliamentary group, SD, Mr Kumer, stepped in front of the cameras and firmly claimed that they would start working tomorrow. All Slovenia then looked forward to the next day. Think of how much energy has accumulated in these two years, when it was obviously not meant to start working the next day. But no one noticed any difference. The economy is still going back, unemployment is going up. No one now knows which day the head of the SD Group had in mind. More. More and more elements are claimed that the government has actually introduced pink wine only because it is the only way that it has fulfilled its pre-election promise that the future can also be pink. As long as it is not clear, because now people do not really know whether the government works or does not work, or only goes to that logic, that there is no way with the soil anywhere else to fall, and sleeps like a winter bear, giving the government some additional powers, some additional tasks directly by the legislator, I hope that you will at least agree on this, and it is certainly not responsible. For this reason, we propose that this Article be deleted in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much. In the first part of the opening presentation, I have also tried to draw attention to the key aspects of this debate, which took place on the working body and is repeated here today. Allow me first to thank all those who have announced their support for this amendment to the law. I would like to reject some of the claims that have been made here. In the field of research, we have not set up any new agencies in this mandate. Both the ARSO and the TIA were the old agency and the only agency established within this Ministry, the National Quality Agency in higher education, represented in the cost-effective sense that you spoke about, the transformation of the former non-Europeanly constituted and politically defined Higher Education Council, with all the consequences that today in higher education, with many consequences, not all that we feel there today. In short, that's not the point. In this article we regulate an area that is not without a legal basis, of course, the basis is at least a short budget, but we want to define correctly, clearly, transparently, that duality, not double funding. Double funding – earlier used this term – is something else, something that is forbidden by law to finance the same project and the same content from two sources. The duality of funding discussed is not something that would have arisen in this mandate, is something that happened when these agencies were established, and this was in 2004 and 2005, when these two agencies started their work operationally. At that time, there are certain tasks, not without reason, that there will be no misunderstanding, not with political motives, but for the natural reasons that I have already talked about and will continue to be at the then ministry led by Dr. Jure Zupan. In fact, I mentioned that this article is about complementary measures, instruments implemented by the Ministry with those key, basic, foundations, to the greatest extent funded by both agencies. These are instruments which do not have the character of periodicity, such as ARSA programming or project calls, and are not escaped. These are new measures, including some of the anti-crisis measures taken by the Government in this mandate. Unfortunately, they have not been adopted in the past, and so there has also been such a breakdown of the economies we are talking about, such problems, such a steady fall. This was not only the fault of the previous government, but indeed that the previous government had leverage in the economic period, so that it could do more than it did, and so it satisfied itself with the reproduction of the bad situation it inherited in this area. We have made a significant change in this situation. Here we have seen one of the biggest increases in shares allocated to research and development by any EU country in this crisis period, and we have set up a trend that we are counting on to give through the research and innovation strategy a system environment, infrastructure in the normative and other ways that will allow it not only to be a one-day fly, regardless of how the political situation will unfold in the future, if we want to be successful in the future, without it. In short, it is only a matter of complementary measures with those periodic, fugitives implemented through the agency. These instruments aren't friendly either, and I've already figured out which three sets are involved. For the first time, calls are made for Structural Funds funds. We have carried out two such calls in this mandate, a large one, it must be acknowledged, with which we have absorbed virtually all the structural resources available until the end of this financial perspective. We have also managed to obtain additional funds from some other sources within the framework of the government's anti-crisis efforts. It is an invitation to tender for centres of excellence and it is an invitation to tender for the competent centres which ended last year. You have the opportunity at each regular meeting, this morning it was also in the framework of the Knowledge of Grief project, here I think there is none of the Members who participated in this presentation this morning, I think that the fifth Centre of Excellence has already been presented in a row and it has been very controlled to show what anti-crisis action means in this area, where there are of course no quick things, because the patent cannot be bought, innovation cannot be narrated from the void, what these efforts in this area mean, and how successful these consortia that have been created, for example, through calls for centres of excellence. This morning, it was presented that this centre of excellence, based on magnetic resonance technology, has more innovations and more patent applications within a short period of time, less than a year. And, of course, it is the cooperation of industry and knowledge institutions. Indeed, this invitation to tender could also be made through the Agency. I would like it most, believe me, to be saved, I will say, quite a lot of the critical words I have received, and the people at the Ministry, for example, on the home work body, where there was a speech about this call, for the competent centres this has not yet happened, it is not said that it will not, but if we wanted to intervene in real time, and this is a frequent criticism that the Government has received to delay, then it would be from an agency that until that day that has not yet made another euro of European funds available, impossible to expect, 'You put these instruments into life', because today this call would not be implemented. Why? Because, in recent years, this agency has avoided these structural funds from engaging in this purpose, and it was impossible at the time when intervention was needed to do everything possible to link the economy and the research sphere through these projects, it was necessary to do so at the Ministry. Not because we wanted it, but because it was the only way to achieve it in real time. On the basis of the fact that the Ministry had already implemented certain instruments with European funds in the previous mandate, it had acquired those knowledge and also had people involved in technical assistance and all that allowed these calls to experience their epilogue. By the way, the first evaluation of the Centre of Excellence will take place in the middle of the year and the public will also be informed of the results. However, there will be no misunderstanding, the evaluation procedure was also, in this case, the strictest criteria, at least the same if not the sharper ones as those agencies with international experts and so on. The second set, in addition to the calls for Structural Funds covered by this Complementary Article, where this allows, refers to calls for international projects. These are projects, those that know or continue to follow an area called ERA-NET or EUREKA, which differ from national instruments by contributing to or creating some transnational, international routes, levers of cooperation between institutions and thus building what is called a common European Research Area or an ERA - European Research Area. And these are the calls where the partners in many countries are also ministries, because it is not only about direct funding of research work, but also about generating platforms that enable this joint research work. You will find different models across Europe. In some cases, the partners and contractors of these instruments are ministries of interest, such as the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Health. Most of the time, when these horizontal tasks are involved, these ministries are responsible for research activity or science, so that these differences are very varied. However, it is logical from this title that the ministries have a role to play in this regard. But there is also evaluation, selection by definition, because it is an international project, the assessment of experts at transnational level and the ministry has no special impact. By the way, almost a year of public debate with all stakeholders was held on this amendment. There was no comment from the research sphere that would challenge the fact that these complementary instruments remain in this second track implemented through the Ministry. Therefore, I believe that if we have doubts here that it is something other than that the measures that are of other nature, so that they are not escaped, are not periodic, but intervene with them in a situation, whether it is a crisis or something else, and that some process is initiated, some change remains in the ministry, which is more flexible in this sense, but further, if these instruments develop into dimensions that allow for their periodicity and regular stable communication to be transferred to the agency. The third set, which is most typical in this case, is a set of calls for the promotion of science. By definition, this is not research work, it does not finance research work. This article also gives us the opportunity to finance this type of financing, or it gives us a clear basis for what has been done. This instrument was carried out most of the time before the agency was established in the cabinets of the Ministry of Field Affairs. When ARSO was established, Minister Zupan held this area under the authority of his cabinet, there were serious disputes, complaints, irregularities leading to his withdrawal as well. But then this power was transferred to the science sector, where it is now. We want to continue, this was one of those things that I was talking about on my mother's working body, put it on the Agency, which requires strengthening its human resources potential, that they are already overloaded. Here, by the way, I mention only one of the problems with which Slovenian scientific research policy is facing is that when we engage more resources than in the past, when we want to continue to increase this share and we will have to do so if we want to be ambitious or to get closer to the realization of our ambitions and reasonably compare ourselves with the countries that can do it in Europe, but I do not think about the long-standing Scandinavian cases here, but we are dealing with a very successful country, a neighbouring Austria, we will have to increase these resources, and the new strategy brings it up. What will become a problem below is that at the Ministry and agencies involved, there are very few people to be able to properly, thoroughly, carefully implement these instruments with growth in scale. This will be one of the bottlenecks below, to which the scientific community also draws attention in various letters. I expect that the debate on the strategy will also bring this into line. In short, this complementary possibility of implementing measures directly by the Ministry is important when it comes to some initial phase of the implementation of certain instruments. This does not change in any way the fact that key operators of all other instruments, i.e. those regular to ensure the stability and functioning of the research system, are in agencies. So much for a brief explanation of this subject. I can understand if it is a well-intentioned concern of the amendment's proponents that they want to make sure that this second track does not fall within the scope of the agency's resources, not the transparency we want to ensure. What we have done so far in this context shows that we have improved this practice from the situation we inherited. I understand this concern as a forecast of a vigilant monitoring of what will happen in this area, on this track, if I may say so, in the future, and I have no problem with it. I think it is right that Parliament, especially the labour force, is concerned about this exercise of this control and that we are working together to make the instruments as effective, targeted as possible and to strengthen the research capacity of Slovenian science and the entire environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you for the offer, Mr. Secretary. As far as control is concerned, believe that we will gladly hold you to your word and that we will excuse all your expectations about the sharpness of this control. First of all, allow me to do it in the form of notes, that some of the things you have mentioned do not, in part, even one of them does not fully hold. In fact, you said, quote, "that the new agency means the immediate continuation of the world". Before I spoke, I said that you've set up different bodies, partly for the distribution of funds in different areas, which I specifically stressed, elsewhere for evaluation. In this case, it was an evaluation. However, this new agency is not a direct continuation of the world at hand, for I would remind you, if you do not believe, to look into the law you yourself have proposed to leave the world in law so far, but to take away all its powers and to allow it to stagnate without any more important role. However, you set up the Agency on a new basis and then merged the various powers. So in this part, your claim is in no way true. However, I must point out that, as far as we are concerned with this agency, many of the warnings coming from the university sphere are saying that the world so far has at least worked when it comes to evaluation, while the new agency is not doing very well at this point. This may be a problem when it comes to the functioning of these institutions and their programmes. For the end, when you have said so strongly that the Government is working, I would also remind you that one of the colleagues in the introductory words said that it was necessary to need as many of these development issues as possible so that we did not get a single legal proposal at this meeting, which would be necessary and would regulate the area of the Slovenian economy or development or anything like that, but only by means of an urgent procedure, which in a completely non-European way undermines the rule of law and seeks to legalise the illegal conduct of a public servant in closing archives, because he wants to hide his or her own past from Slovenia, contrary to the declaration of the European Parliament and Council of Europe. We have not proposed this law, we do not agree with it, and we do not support it. We regret that the Government has not finally started to work and that it would prefer to propose as many good proposals as possible for this meeting, which would go in the direction of economic development and also the greatest and fastest development of all social areas, including the science we are talking about today. That's what we miss. And believe me, it's not just us in this room that's missing the whole of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u125	Mr. Minister Golobič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I would not like to go to other topics to be archived for the opportunities that will take place in the coming days here in this hall and also in other places. I would also not like to speak on behalf of the whole government and what other ministries are doing. I think these rapid emergency measures have been carried out in many ways. Some could be faster than they were, we can agree on that. However, what is particularly important, in my opinion, is, if I may add this, not the necessity of a measure, but the urgency of action in the areas of urgency of the procedure, but the urgency of action in areas where Slovenian policy has so far not acted clearly enough. This, on the other hand, interferes with the prevailing situations, in self-determination, which are very rooted and where unfortunately politics finds too often opportunities for its invoices, not for these problems to actually be resolved. And in this context, we have a situation with some kind of blockage, which is basically developmental blockage. But that's a different subject. If you don't mind, I would, as far as our ministry is concerned. I've already told you how we intervened at this time, including with very rapid measures. There's only one case I can give you. In order to support the developmental research activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are key and which have suffered the most in this crisis, we spent €22.5 million in the first year of the crisis, more than 200 such companies and their projects. 600 were reported. All these funds were national funds, not European funds, because the process was easier to compete with. In 2008, at the time of the significant budget surplus, one million euros were received. And when the then district minister or her Directorate asked the Minister of Finance to allocate some additional funds to support this acquisition, the answer was no, the budgetary surplus is the government's priority. The budget does not serve to create surpluses. When he's got a surplus, it's the money that's the worst deposit. In this area, it has been possible to do more than it has done, and we are trying to move things as best we can, but of course they do not produce overnight results, so they are also politically ungrateful, but this department does not interfere with it at work. Just as far as the NAKVIS is concerned. I didn't say it was a legal heirloom. You tried to quote me, but I made it very clear that in an organisational sense, in terms of secretariat, service, apparatus representing some cost of drive, NAKVIS fully took over the entire apparatus and drive of the previous Higher Education Council. It is not true that the previous world for higher education has only become a burden of competence and not everything else. With the new law, we have redefined the institution by the name of the Higher Education Council as a consultative body of the Government, which has important powers and tasks, includes all partners and is very much done, led by mag. Franci Pivec, including, I will say, all stakeholders, Slovenian Academy, universities, independent higher education institutions and students, trade unions. He did an important job in managing, preparing starting points and later conducting a broad public debate last year on the new national programme for the development of higher education. This is an institution which has the same name as the previous Higher Education Council, but is an institution that was established independently, i.e. without reference to the previous institution, with functions that are in this sense unequivocal, while NAKVIS has assumed the accreditation and evaluation powers that it had previously appointed the Higher Education Council, and is, of course, conducting these procedures in a manner comparable to European guidelines and standards. That's the problem. That's what I'm aware of. You know, as a lawyer of the law, that this institution, unlike the previous world, is a new NAKVIS, a quality agency in higher education is set up as a direct, non-governmental budgetary user, that it is not in any relationship with the Ministry, that it has the same status in relation to the country as, for example, the National Assembly or the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, to manage it, or to take all the key decisions of the Council of the Agency, in which the Government is one of the experts, one working in the field of quality in higher education at home, and one who is abroad, appointed only two members, the other nine directly outside the Government, outside Parliament, any political decision-makers, other members of the higher education area. They have scissors and canvas in their hands, including an extremely great responsibility to make the heritage they have taken over and, on the other hand, the ambition of higher education institutions to increase the attractiveness and quality of higher education space by means of new programmes, with new content, to harmonise this. In this regard, I agree, there are no problems in this introductory part. They have established the criteria that are the basis for this, and I believe that these initial problems that have arisen and which are pointed out by higher education institutions will be eliminated as soon as possible, but I believe that this and other aspects of quality assurance in higher education will be widely discussed both at the home work body and at the National Assembly on the occasion of the consideration of the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education 2011-2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u128	I'll be shorter this time. As a supreme rhetorical speaker, the distinguished Minister may turn his words, but he holds to all that I have said before. You can also check your own words in the introduction. The fact is that things have changed so that the agency has been set up in a new way, that some of the work has really been carried on to them, but this has been further upgraded, and that it has then passed on virtually all the power, while the world has remained, as I said before, somewhere like some consultative body in the air, practical without real competences and competences. Secondly, you have pointed out that there is more money for some of the parts covered by your ministry, including science. I agree with that. This is also one of the few things I welcome, and I can also do so as Chairman of the committee responsible. In this I see first and foremost confirmation of the fact that you are extremely influential in the Government and because I refer to you as such, I remind you of something so frightening that I have been thinking about it all day. This morning, at a debate, when we discussed the closure of archives and the new law proposed by the Government, the representative of the Slovenian Intelligence Service, the current services said they were direct successors to the previous Secret Service. However, you know that according to the Supreme Court judgment, the Aussie was declared a criminal organization. I hope, frankly, it was only a lapsus there, but also let the government discuss it very seriously, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I had to respond to the Minister's remarks, which in many ways do not reflect the reality and are, I can say, misleading. First, look, the world you shut down, or you didn't shut it down, but you've headed it down that it doesn't have jurisdiction, in fact, there's only one shell left now that doesn't perform those functions that it had before, even though it turns out that the results were reflected in better, even more evident, procedures or final results. Now, see, Mr Minister, you say how much more has been invested in science and development at this time. It is still a power to listen, especially from your mouth, to inherit an extremely bad condition, that the previous government has left you with many of the conditions you had to remedy. But, look, you might believe that in 2008, November or December, when you took over the power that you might even be right, that you might be able to think to a lot of people whether they're right. But today, for two years, almost two and a half years after that, it is distasteful and unconvincing that you are still pleading that the previous government has left you with a bad situation, a bad situation, and that you cannot do more in the given circumstances than you are. Now I'm asking you. We have been hearing for two years that, above all, your ministry is investing significantly more in science and development. How do you know that? Where are the concrete results that we will be able to say, "see, all the resources that have been devoted to science and development have some results, some effects". I agree, myself and probably all 90 Members, that science and development are something we have to bet on, and that there is a guarantee that Slovenia will be able to develop more quickly and get closer to the most developed part of the world. However, increasing resources alone is not enough. And right here there is one reasonable suspicion or doubt, and this law is also part of the fact that these funds are allocated to irrationally, unintentionally or only to certain privileged individuals and, of course, to groups. That's the fear. For look at one simple example. If we increase resources for science and development, this does not mean that these funds are being used rationally. For if there are not enough resources, enough programs, some well-established, well-planned, results-based resources alone are insufficient. As a result, each of those who can count on these funds is looking for ways to circumvent all legislation, all regulations, all calls for access to these funds. I believe, however, that there are also opportunities for friendly, personal, political or such connections to achieve funds without concrete effects. And when you just mentioned that I don't know how many funds were earmarked primarily for micro and small businesses, I ask you, on the other hand, do you know how many small businesses were closed down or bankrupted last year? I think about 12 grand, if I remember correctly. And that reflects some completely mirroring image of what you're talking about. This means that just small and medium-sized enterprises, which are probably the most promising industry that can help us out of this crisis, cannot live, cannot create what they want. And I am not just speaking because of these resources, you, as a member of the Government, which is certainly ineffective in the whole area, are responsible that you have not created those conditions so that small and medium-sized enterprises can respond better to these changes, which the crisis itself brings to Slovenia. If you have been received, I believe that you have been, all those initiatives, the desire, the demands of the Chamber of Commerce representing these small companies, you can see that they wanted, not the financial means, not the aid, they wanted only to enable them to operate normally, but they were neither heard nor able to present their views, and even less so that a particular matter would be tried through a change of legislation that is not even so extensive and would also be justified, of course, to be accepted in an emergency procedure, but unfortunately there was no. So, look, now all these statements that we're listening to, like I said, and the good two years are probably next year we can count on it to be, look, these aren't convincing facts. Only increasing funds that are likely to be spent repeatedly is not enough. And such a law as it is, even if our amendment were adopted, they will not give the effects that are expected. Now that our amendment is, of course, rejected, this law will be even less effective and I strongly doubt that we will achieve or that the desired effect will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I am already looking forward to discussing both national programmes. I see that it will be very comprehensive, thorough and just like that. Today we are touching on many areas that have no direct connection with this law, but nothing to do with it, because it will all result in a very important debate on the national programme for the development of higher education and the new research innovation strategy. With regard to NAKVIS and the previous Higher Education Council. Look, the Higher Education Council, as it is today, is doing a very important job following the amendment of the law. However, two institutions cannot do the same work. This Council shall not have any competence in relation to the accreditation or evaluation of higher education institutions or programmes. He can't. One institution in the country should have such competences and this is the newly established NAKVIS. This must be done in a European comparable way. The previous Council for Higher Education did not do so in this way, its effectiveness may have been measured by quantitative indicators of a number of programmes and institutions accredited by it, not only by its own fault, but also by the campaign approach of higher education institutions in the introduction of new Bologna programmes. That's a fact. I am very precise when I measure the criticism to the institutions, including the previous government, I said, it inherited a bad condition and unfortunately did not improve it during the conjuncture. I didn't say it was great, and then one day, it all fell down, and then... So, the problem, I will say, is that the importance of this European comparable, harmonised accreditation and evaluation of higher education programmes of institutions is and the importance of this is that, without our accreditation institution becoming a member of the ENKE and the EKAR, two European associations of such agencies to meet these conditions and the previous world could not. For example, a representative of employers in the previous Higher Education Council was a man from the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Formally all is well, because anyway the government has appointed all members, except for some by function, a large majority. I won't mention any other cases. I mean, without the Slovenian higher education programmes and institutions being accredited by such an institution as NAKVIS, under these criteria, which will itself be accredited and accepted into a circle of such European institutions, by the way, here Kosovo has overtaken us due to delays in recent years, entire generations of our students have been deprived of a license, for a passport, if I may say. Their charters, their diplomas, their master's degree, they lack dimensions, this dimension, so that they have acquired this education, these competences in institutions, in programmes of this kind of European recognised accreditation, which make it easier for them to enter the labour market, into other higher education institutions throughout Europe and around the world. This is some damage that has been done in the past because such an institution has not been established in time. More than one generation of higher education students were affected. The new world for higher education is the consultative body of the government. It's an important job. It's got all the stakeholders that have to be. They set up a starting point for a new national development programme for higher education, a key document, and there was a screening forum in two stages of public debate. This is a great deal of work, but they have no competence and must not have them as Nakvis has, because it is two separate worlds. The State Council can't take laws, the National Assembly can't take them. Let's be right here with these institutions. The new NAKVIS has a very difficult job, expectations are enormous, they must do very much in a short time. Heritage, I have said for what reasons, is extremely difficult and let us at least give him this benevolence, that those people working there, especially the members of the NAKVIS Council, who have the greatest responsibility, will be told how they came to these places without the practical role of the Government, except those two of the 11 members, to do their work according to the best professional power and personal integrity. As far as the funds involved are concerned. Before that, ultra-financing was mentioned. Yeah, we're ultra-financing science in this mandate, that's what we're doing. -Express, hyper. As you yourself mentioned, where are these results? We are centres of excellence, this morning Dr. Polek said here, they were able to start work sometime in March last year, they just started. In this bad year they have 14 innovations, if I'm not mistaken, he said, they were here on display, and four patents were invested. That's one result. In a year, not anymore. There are no quick solutions here, unfortunately, this is an area where that is not the case. And it's hard to put the road in a place where it's from the moment it's said, there'll be a route that's built to make the years go by. Here are some of the answers themselves to this question when you said, it is not enough to increase funds if there is not on the other side of the programs, this, that third, if there is no absorption ability, if there are no addressees. We know that Slovenian large companies, many in the past, have left development departments in this transition period, that science actually had no one else to communicate with, even if it wanted to, but in principle it is not too inclined to do so. Mr Žerjavo and I spoke recently about an article by Dr Mark Kos that reminds us of how few researchers are present in the Slovenian economy and that without it we will not be able to raise additional value. These instruments, the competent centres, are designed to bring them together, to encourage and increase this capacity in the Slovenian economy, so that Slovenian science, which is good, in many areas is also excellent, can receive interlocutors, subscribers, if I may say so. There's no magic wand here. In the event of problems with a relatively small proportion of young people enrolled in the natural and technical fields of study and all those requiring action, which must be continued, imaginative where there are no shortcuts, these strategies serve precisely this. We did what we could in the first and second years of the crisis with intervention measures. We are now putting in place and I hope that, together with you, we will be able to put through both strategies a system that will incorporate this into any act that will be adopted in this Parliament, and in particular any budget that will be adopted here. Moderately, moderately increase these funds. Of the 0.6% of GDP that we inherited and is 20 years old, we have reached 0.85% since 2008, we will be able to reach 1%, which is some long-term target by 2012, only if the corresponding 2012 budget changes are in place. In 2011, we are still on the safe side. That's the problem. Many small businesses have collapsed. They have collapsed because among small companies in Slovenia there are an extremely large number of those who are developing inactive, who have not invested anything in the past, and they have not been encouraged enough by the country in this regard, and I have talked about this, and so have been lost, for other reasons, but also for this, a little innovative. There are several innovative active companies among large companies. Here, I will say, we are trying to create an environment with this strategy, so this novelty is important because it allows us not only to talk about the national research development programme, but that this strategy also includes an innovation segment that we, together with the Ministry of Economy under the auspices of, if I may say so, the Science and Technology Council of the Government. I invite you and take this opportunity to really take the time, all the documents are publicly published, and in the debate that will be here in the National Assembly, we will make an important move forward towards the creation of an environment in which it will be possible to imagine that Slovenia will also be successful in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to speak to the amendments anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment to Article 9 will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the contrary a proposal for a law amending the bond and real-equity legislation in the aviation sector. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The National Assembly adopted the latest amendments to the Law on Bond and Real Law Relations in Aviation in 2007. Since then, there have been changes in the acquis of the European Union and changes in the limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention. Amendments to the acquis in the European Union relate to a Regulation of the European Commission amending the requirements concerning insurance for air carriers and operators. With regard to amendments to the limits on the liability of air carriers, the International Civil Aviation Organisation under the Montreal Convention revised the limits on the liability of air carriers by reference to the inflation factor corresponding to the accumulated inflation rate from the date of entry into force of the Montreal Convention. In view of these changes, the provisions of the law should be adapted and amended accordingly. The main solutions to the new law are to adapt the national regime to the regulation resulting from the regulations of the European Union and the revised limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention, while at the same time the individual provisions of the law are also terminologyally corrected and meaningfully aligned with the provisions of the regulations of the European Union and the Montreal Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, President of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. At its 15th regular meeting, held on 20 January 2011, the Transport Committee considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Bonding and Real Legal Relations in Aviation. We conducted the hearing in accordance with the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. Mr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, presented the introductory explanation for the bill. He pointed out that since the last entry into force of the amendments to the Law on Obligations and Realisations in Aviation in 2007, changes to the acquis of the European Union have occurred again, and this is also why the proposal for a law amending the law under consideration has been drafted. This law thus addresses the issue of adapting the national regime to the regulation of amendments to the regulations of the European Union and the revised limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention in relation to the European Regulation and concerns the relationship between carriers, passengers, luggage and cargo. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and has made some comments. We have also drafted amendments to these comments in the coalition, and the Committee has adopted all these amendments, which have been tabled by the coalition groups. There was no discussion at the examination of the law itself, but in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thus, a proposal for a law that we are considering is also being prepared at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u138	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! The proposal for a law amending the Law on bond and real rights relations in aviation is governed by bond and real law relations, enforcement procedures, insurance, claims and the regulation and resolution of the conflict of aviation laws. Individual issues are also addressed by the regulations of the European Union and by the Convention on the Unification of Certain Rules for International Carriage by Air, the so-called Montreal Convention, as provided for in Article 1 of the Act. At that time, the European Union's applicable legislation was taken into account in the drafting of the Law on aviation bond and real law, which was adopted in 2000. Since 2000, a number of European Union regulations have been adopted which have affected the area governed by this law. The following main solutions were put in place with amendments and amendments to the law in 2007. The national regime, which was not in accordance with the arrangements laid down in the three Regulation of the European Union, on the liability of air carriers in relation to the air transport of passengers and their luggage, with regard to the Montreal Convention and with regard to the regulation of the European Community Regulation laying down common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in cases of refusal of boarding, cancellation or major flight delays and the Regulation of the European Community on insurance requirements for air carriers and operators, has ceased to apply. The individual provisions of the law were, in a terminology and meaningful manner, in accordance with the arrangements laid down in those Regulations. In view of these changes to the acquis of the European Union, the law had to be adapted accordingly. Since the last amendments to the law in 2007, changes to the acquis of the European Union have been re-examined and restrictions on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention have also been revised. The European Commission has adopted several regulations affecting air transport. In the light of all the above, Commission Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council should therefore be amended accordingly. 285/2010 introduced amendments to the provisions on liability in respect of baggage, insurance coverage in commercial operations, for liability in respect of cargo and insurance coverage in commercial operations. In the light of all the changes in the acquis of the European Union and the revised limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention, the provisions of the Law on Obligations and Real Laws in Aviation should be adapted and amended accordingly. Since it is a matter of harmonising the law with European Union law, we will not oppose the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u140	Your Honors are here! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law adapting national regulations to the new regulations and amended regulations of the European Union and to the revised limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention. The appearance of the drying-up provision and the very short addition or amendment of the law have significant implications for passengers and their luggage. Over the past year, we have witnessed significant delays and cancellations in aviation as a result of natural disasters and the threat of terrorism. The most important is the health and safety of passengers, but they must also have the right to protect their luggage and property. We are therefore adapting the national regime for amending the provisions, harmonising and increasing the liability of passengers and their luggage, which, by Commission Regulation No 285/2010, take into account the findings of the international civil aviation organisation, which must take into account the inflation factor under the Montreal Convention, which has exceeded the 10% threshold since the entry into force of the Convention on 4 November 2003. The bill, supplemented and corrected in the light of the comments made by the legal service, therefore we think we need it, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Bond and Real Law Relations in Aviation. Since the last implementation of the amendment to the Bond and Real Relations Act in 2007, changes to the European Union's legal order have come about again. The limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention have also been revised. The European Commission did not adopt a Regulation on insurance requirements for air carriers and operators on 6 April 2010. The proposed law thus addresses the issue of adapting national regulation, regulating the amended regulations of the European Union and the revised limits on the liability of air carriers. The individual provisions are thus terminology-corrected and meaningfully aligned with the arrangements laid down in the Regulation of the European Union relating to the Montreal Convention. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u144	Your Honors are here! In 2007, there were again changes to the acquis of the European Union. The limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention have also been revised. The proposed law thus addresses the adaptation of national arrangements to the provisions of the amended European Union Regulations and the revised limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention. Taking into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Commission, the Group of Unaffiliated Members supports the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in which we note that the Law on Bond and Real Relations in Aviation has so far not been dealt with before the Constitutional Court, the European Court and otherwise has not been seen in its implementation of other major problems. This is very important, since we rarely meet with such content of the law. This makes us especially happy because this law regulates the liability of carriers to passengers, luggage and cargo, which is also an extremely sensitive relationship. Thus, the proposal that we are considering today is due to the conclusion of an international civil aviation organisation that revised the limits on the liability of air carriers under the Montreal Convention and by reference to the inflation factor, which exceeded the 10% threshold as of 4 November 2003, the Commission has found that there is a need to adapt the limits of liability to passengers, luggage and cargo. In view of all of this, the European Union Regulation has introduced a quoted amendment to the liability provisions and we note that the minimum insurance coverage for the baggage of a thousand 131 specific drawing rights, which was previously a thousand, was 17, with this law applying 19 specific drawing rights per kilogram of cargo. In the case of passengers, the Air Commission has found that the minimum insurance requirements identified are significantly above the revised liability limits. Thus, the passenger’s position was clearly higher than that of the law. Even so, because this law can also bring about a slightly easier business for our national carrier, we support all these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. POINT — DEFINITIVE ACT ON THE EXTENSION OF THE AREA OF PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE FINANCE OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSES OF THE CARRIAGE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS FOR THE TOTAL, THAT THEY HAVE BEEN INCLUDED IN THE FINANCING OF THE CONTRIBUTING MANAGEMENTS OF THE ECONOMIC INSTRUMENTS OF THE STATE INVESTIGATION, THE HOLDING SOCIETY, D.D., AND THE BELIEF FINANCING OF THE LEAD OF THE GROUP AND NKBM, D. D.D., AND SECERTAINLY SOCIENT INSTITIONS OF THE STATE STATE INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE "Slamnat" companies, financial holding companies IPD.) For the purchase of the majority or major share of the economic company that led it, or its leader, and for the identification of the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions for the alleged undercutting of non-restrictive laws from the area of takeovers which allowed for the mentioned slow-down management takeover. The proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation was submitted to the assembly by an investigative committee. I give the floor to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Loizet Posedel, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u148	It's a beautiful hall to say, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to you all! I will make an extension proposal as President of this Commission, otherwise the decision for this extension has been adopted by the Commission unanimously by the Member and all members. I also thank the Member and all the members of all the political parties participating in this committee for their very good cooperation. Virtually all of our conclusions so far have been adopted unanimously or at least there has been no opposition. As it is said, even in our work so far – we had 14 regular meetings and two extraordinary sessions – we set ourselves in the first part to explain what the legislation governing the takeover during this period of the investigation was like from August 2005 until the beginning of the work of the Commission. Therefore, during this period, we first carried out an expert review of all legislation and a hearing of 14 witnesses. So far, we have heard from the former Minister of Economy, Mr Visiak, former Minister of Finance, Mr Bayuk, Secretary-General of the former government, Mr Dialic, former Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Gaspari, two State Secretarys of the Ministry of Economy, Mrs Starina Kosem and Mr Jersic. We have also heard some legal experts or experts who are or are supposed to be involved in the drafting of legislation, namely Mr Marjan Kocbek, Mr Dušan Pšeničnik, Rado Bohinc, Max Tynikar, and we have also conducted hearings by regulators, Mr Jani Sorsak, Damjan Žuglja and Mark Kranjc. In these testimonies and in obtaining data on acquisitions we have somehow come to these provisional findings of the main five problems that have arisen during this period and that have somehow also resulted in these controversial management acquisitions. As it is said, these five main problems could be referred to as, for the first time, too easily available money in banks, secondly, insufficient legislation on acquisitions, thirdly, insufficient supervision of regulators and supervisors, fourthly, greed and unethicality of some managers, and fifthly, the friendly and political links of participants in takeovers. Otherwise, the fifth and first points were obviously very closely connected, and this could have been the case. As a result of this and these findings, the proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation is still today. We have found and there is also some information that some public function holders should be actively involved in these disputed management acquisitions. We know who is legally defined and designated as a public function holder, so we would like to confirm or reject this information or this rumor at this next stage. That is why we want to check with all public function holders and with all banks, not only those two banks that are predominantly state-owned and already defined in the basic parliamentary investigation act, in order to extend this to all banks and, as it is said, to all carriers. I am sure that Members and Members of Parliament will confirm this proposal for extended parliamentary investigations. As the Commission said, it was adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Lois Posede on behalf of the Zares Group, if you will. Thank you very much. You've given your opinion. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Andrej Magajna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u150	Your Honors are here! All three members of our parliamentary group support the extension of the contents of the commission of inquiry to determine whether the holders of public functions actively participated in individual management acquisitions by obtaining credits for themselves and for the companies in which they were owners or co-owners. It is extremely worrying when, in fact, not only Members, the public learns about the data, whether it is a million more or less, but that there are about 7 billion reckless loans, including loans for managers' acquisitions, how they deal with social property. There is growing suspicion that the country has become the prey of certain lobbyists and certain political elites. In addition to the well-known bipass business affair, with the subsidiary, the modern system of handling is precisely about political and economic circles trying to take over and, I would say, illegal methods to acquire social public funds in particular. This Commission has an extremely important role to play, and Mr Aloise Posede's work so far has been very good, correct. It is also good to hear that the Commission can act by unanimously adopting its conclusions and I wish the Commission much success in further work and extremely difficult, politically responsible work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Commission on which we are talking has been set up to determine whether, in the course of the process of taking over the Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško system, the methods used, in particular the acquisition of money, in a way that is not in accordance with Slovenian law, or anything else wrong due to the alleged lack of or inadequate takeover legislation allowing the above-mentioned disputed managers to take over. I know the hearings were public, and then I probably won't tell any secrets. I would point out, however, that the basic takeover legislation was from 1997, 1998 and then the takeover law was amended in 2005 and in 2006 the Company Act, on the basis of which those procedures were followed. And I can say that the hearings did not show that the legislation would be quite wrong, but the witnesses said literally, "The laws were largely fine, only the implementation of this legislation was somewhat controversial mainly because the judiciary did not carry out its task as it should have been". Therefore, it was suggested that the Commission of Inquiry should be extended to the area referred to in the sentence "to determine whether the holders of public functions participated in individual management activities by obtaining loans for themselves and for the companies in which the owners or co-owners were involved". As mentioned on the panel mentioned above, all the members voted in favour, no one opposed. I can say that we support this enlargement in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Perhaps it would take some further expansion to come to the truth of how it could possibly have come to this Lashko Brewery, how could the Lashko Brewery for 90 thousand SIT by share buy Union shares, while Interbrew offered 29 thousand SIT a higher price, that is for 119 thousand SIT per share. So that we may also come to this in this committee, so we support this enlargement in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would also like to point out that, at the hearing, it has also been categorically said that it is likely that it is guilty of some irregularities, that I should use this term for the time being, even because the judicial system does not work effectively, does not work on a spot and does not work in real time. And if this were to happen, probably a lot of the strangest thing that's happened in this case would probably not be possible. This means that the good functioning of the judicial system can also be an important factor in the functioning of the economic, financial, economic system, especially at the time of the transition when ownership is not determined or ownership is obtained by its second titler. And that the good functioning of the judicial system by this means, directly or indirectly, enables good supervision or makes it possible for a party to act if the functioning of the judicial system is not as it should be. In this case, it certainly allows for papyrus and enables tycoon stories. This is especially true if, after a lengthy trial, no one happens, and even the Witnesses are urged to change their testimony to change their content. If necessary, lawyers also call on them 20 times on the day of their hearing to change their content and their testimony. This Commission has also opened up an area that may not have been envisaged at all, which is the functioning of the banking and financial system itself. Certainly it has also proved to be very supportive, we will say, outside the functioning system of the country, because otherwise we do not know how simple bank data could not be obtained from the Bank of Slovenia, which sent certain information to commercial banks, and then commercial banks sent a request for material to the Bank of Slovenia and the circle was completed. So you couldn't get into these circles. Of course, this closed chain is slowly unlocking and slowly opening, I'll say, thanks to this commission and maybe some other. So we are counting that this enlargement will certainly bring some refreshment, but perhaps some expansion would be necessary to actually determine why the State allowed certain shares of companies that we said were sold at a third of the lower price than foreign suppliers offered. It is likely that today we find that this national interest would not be so national and that we would see more financial wages and the good functioning of these companies, that we would probably not have this problem today, or at least not in that form, the problem would be smaller. There probably wouldn't be an investigative commission either. But good, that would be if it were. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this enlargement and, of course, we will also work intensively and constructively on this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss it. Andrej Magajna, will you do some more? No, he won't discuss it. Franco Yuri. He won't. Franci Kek. He won't. Vito Rojej. He won't. Aloys Potočnik. He won't. Tadj Slapnik. He won't. Willie Trophynic. He won't. Mr. Rudolf Petan. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Proposer, Mr. Lois Posedel. [[No, no, ……]] All the prepared debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate is not yet in progress, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Nobody wants any more. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 9, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation, I find that the National Assembly has ordered an extension of the scope of the Parliamentary investigation to determine the political responsibility of the holder of public functions, in view of the suspicion that they have been involved in the financing of the contested management acquisitions of the companies Istrabenz, holding company, d.d., and Pivovarna Laško, d.d., by banks or credit institutions of major state ownership, such as the credit institutions of the NLB Group and the NKBM, in such a way as to abuse its political influence on the granting of loans to the members of the management bodies of those companies and related legal and natural persons and the so-called strawing undertakings, and similar to the purchase of the majority and major shareholding of the economic company led or led by them, and for the recognition of the public responsibilities of the area of the management, and for the non-binding of the area of the management. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry is therefore extended by a new second paragraph, which reads as follows, "to investigate whether the public function holders have also participated in individual management activities by obtaining loans for themselves or for companies in which they were owners or co-owners. The second paragraph shall become paragraph 3. The extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation is thus determined and thus I conclude this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u154	We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a Declaration on the Policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the New People's Communities. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of 47 Members and Members, with the first signed Meran Ptræ. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mr Miran Potrč. Since we've just switched places, allow me to take a breather. Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u155	Mr President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! On 18 November last year, 47 Members and Members tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a declaration that we are considering today. The proposal for a document came almost a year from the first initiative of representatives of the Associations of Nations of the former SFRJ. Not only Members, the Government and the Council of State, but also the President of the Republic and the Ombudsman, have expressed their views on its reception and content so far. No Member or Member has voted against the declaration in the working bodies of the National Assembly so far. The views of the Legislative and Legal Service are included in the text of the declaration, no new amendments to the meeting of the National Assembly have been tabled. All of this confirms that the Republic of Slovenia is politically and ethnically mature enough to understand multiethnicism as a wealth of its own identity and intercultural dialogue as a mutual respect for different peoples and their cultures, which brings priority to the development of society under the conditions of a free and equal world and of Europe in particular. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide for special protection of the collective rights of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ in Slovenia, their individual and human rights are guaranteed by the Constitution, yet it is possible for them to be more organised and institutionally involved in social life and to care for their own situation and interests. This applies to all national communities living in Slovenia. On the basis of their respective interest and initiatives, we will therefore over time develop our views and policies on these issues, but there are indisputable reasons why all questions and attitudes towards all the conditional minority national communities in Slovenia cannot be settled with one document and therefore the situation of the national communities of the former SFRY allows for special and early treatment. As arguments for these claims, the following reasons can be provided. First time. This follows their role and the position of independence of Slovenia, taking particular account of the right to vote equally on plebiscite, their changed position after independence and the fact that the majority of countries originating in the former Yugoslavia are governed by certain specific issues and rights of the peoples of the former common country in their constitutions or laws. Another time. This requires good organisation of members of these national communities in many societies and their umbrella organisation, over which they have expressed for years the desire and need to regulate their cooperation in regulating their position and rights. Above all, they seek to identify the body in which they would have an institutional interlocutor by the State. And the third time. It points to the regulation of these issues, which has been referred to by the Ombudsman for many years, which recommends to the National Assembly and the Government, the establishment and adoption of a strategy for regulating the collective rights of minorities which are not specifically defined in the Constitution, and the definition of an institution that representatives of these communities will consider to be an interlocutor at national level. In particular, it takes into account the recommendations made by international supervisory bodies for the protection of minorities and human rights, which in the past have warned Slovenia that this issue is not properly addressed. Dear Members and Members, the fact that we do not interfere with constitutional rights or establish a new legal position of those minorities, that we do not impose any formal obligations on the Government, but that we express the important general positions of the National Assembly towards the situation of these minorities, speaks for the declaration to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report to the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Ms Mag. Majdi Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State and co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a declaration on the policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the new national communities, submitted to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, was considered by the Group of Members and Members of Parliament, with the first signed by the Republic of Slovenia, at its 25th regular meeting on 18 January this year. Opinions on the proposal for a declaration were given by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the Commission for Culture, Science, Education and Sport of the State Council, which supported the declaration, as well as by the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which also expressed its agreement and support for the proposal for a declaration. The representative of the applicants, Miran Potrč, gave an introductory explanation to the proposal for a declaration and said that the declaration had been issued for several months and had been tabled in the legislative procedure on 18 November 2010. This is a document prepared with the agreement of the Government, the signatories of the proposal, representatives of the national communities under consideration and both members of indigenous national communities, Italy and Hungary. According to the first-signed, Slovenia is politically mature and confident enough to understand multiethnicism or multiculturalism as a wealth of its own identity and intercultural dialogue was also one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2008. He also felt that Slovenia, as a democratic state, must be aware of the need for better regulation of the situation of national communities, which are not specifically defined in the Constitution, following their role and position after the independence of Slovenia. He also mentioned in particular that the declaration was a follow-up to the Ombudsman, recommendations and warnings from international supervisory bodies for the protection of human rights and minority rights, as well as to the good organisation of members of these national communities in many societies and the umbrella organization of the Union of Cultural Associations of Constitutional Nations and Nationality, which broke up the SFRJ in Slovenia. Government representative Jožef Školč said that the declaration is an appropriate act to respond to the multi-annual initiatives of representatives of the national communities concerned, so that they can be properly named and obtained a place where they can discuss and make proposals to improve their position. The Declaration means the recognition of cultural and educational rights and the easier work for our representatives abroad, which in various situations is faced with questions about how the situation of these peoples and nationalities in Slovenia is regulated, and with it the issue of political representation is closed. The representative of the Ministry of Culture, State Secretary Dr Stojan Pelko, also said that the Ministry had been involved in drafting an opinion on this declaration. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service initially drew attention to the content and legal nature of the declaration as an act adopted by the National Assembly under Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure, where there is also a framework for the content of such an act. It also drew attention to some of the substantive comments on the text of the declaration itself, which were largely eliminated by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The President of the Association of Cultural Associations of Constitutional Nations and Nationality, SFRJ Fahir Gutić, also welcomed the acceptance of the declaration, who felt that members of the national communities under consideration would become equivalent to the majority population in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. There was a debate in which members and members of the Committee supported the adoption of the declaration, and one of the discussers had concerns about the irregularity of the subject matter under the Constitution and in the legislation, and he was also interested in the financial consequences that would arise from the adoption of the declaration. The proposer also answered these questions. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the title, fourth paragraph of the introductory part, subtitle and to paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the proposal for a declaration. On the basis of these adopted amendments and amendments to the amendment of the four groups of Members, a supplementary proposal was prepared for the text of the declaration, which is also received in the supplementary proposal by the National Assembly for Decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Joseph Školč, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u159	Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Vice President! This declaration is certainly an important civilisational step towards regulating the work of those issues concerning minority policies in the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, it is important that an interested population participated in the creation of this act, which also intends to exercise these minority rights. Secondly, it is also important that this act was created in the National Assembly and has received broad support, at least as indicated by Members and Members of various political groups. This also closes one of these issues, which has been on the ground since the creation of our country until now. From the point of view of the Government, it can be said that the Constitution and declarations at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, that Slovenia has committed itself to respect all human rights, and thus also language and cultural, for citizens and citizens living in our territory and, of course, for all others. This declaration governs primarily and only the situation of citizens and citizens considered to be Albanians, Bosniaks, not to list in alphabetical order until the end. We are also called upon to exercise these rights by the international acts adopted by the National Assembly and by various conventions. All in turn, in some way, they demand that rights be respected, that no differences are made, but allow the State and the States which sign these acts to form their own ways and policies, how these rights are exercised, and, on the other hand, to define and determine which minorities they belong to. In this regard, it may also be important that the declaration, as you have prepared it, has accepted only the names of these groups in the National Assembly and has not imposed any other names which were also available from expert and other discussions. There are still, I will say, acts that have been produced in the Republic of Slovenia during these 20 years calling for the adoption of this declaration. Let me conclude by saying that, on the one hand, such an act certainly means closing a number of questions by other countries of international organisations, as well as by organisations monitoring the realization of human rights, and on the other hand, this act opens up the possibility for Slovenia to enhance its reputation in the international community and for those of us living here, so that we can deal more easily with any issues that may come up on the agenda from this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u161	Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian People's Party are detained from the proposal for a declaration, because we are convinced that it interferes with an area that is not regulated by the Constitution, although the proposaler refers most precisely to it. It is true that the National Assembly expresses its general position with a declaration on internal or external matters of the Republic of Slovenia and does not directly constitute the legal basis for the adoption of binding legal acts, which does not mean that the declaration is intended only for itself, but it can be concluded that binding legal acts which will grant these national communities more rights may follow. What follows from this is just a guess. In Slovenia there are two indigenous national communities, Italy and Hungary, whose position is regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And on the basis of this regime are individual legal acts which regulate the situation of these two national communities in a comprehensive manner. The situation of the so-called new national communities is not regulated by the Constitution, but they have constitutionally protected rights which are the same for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of their origin. Slovenian citizenship has also been acquired by individuals who have come to Slovenia from other countries that have not been in the former SFRJ and do not accept a declaration or belong to them those rights which are guaranteed to all citizens on an equal footing and are enshrined in the Constitution. And at the level of constitutional regulation, such issues should be addressed, as it is only possible to ensure equality for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whether they come from Slovakia, Romania, Ukraine or Serbia. Otherwise, the legal basis for the position of members of the former republics of the SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia is already bilateral agreements concluded between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the government of the country, which is the home country of these immigrants. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which notes that it is necessary, I quote, 'changes in their legal protection and the situation of the national communities to which they belong should be implemented first and foremost at the constitutional level'. End of story. It is clear that Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the cultural and religious integration and participation of immigrants who have acquired Slovenian citizenship and strongly condemn the promotion of national, religious and growing intolerance. There is no restriction on the rights of national communities in Slovenia. However, they may exercise their constitutional rights freely without laying down additional conditions. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that there is no need for such a document. We also believe that the State must first take care of its minorities in neighbouring countries, whose constitutional rights have been violated every day and they have been severely affected by such violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u162	Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of the status of so-called modern minorities is certainly of wider social European importance and coincides with the creation of new countries in the 1990s. In Slovenia, since the collapse of the formerly common country, the problems arising from national identification and the tendency to regulate both individual and collective problems experienced by non-Slovenian nationalities in various areas of their personal and social life have always been evident. Although Slovenia is represented as a country with an exemplary system for the protection of the rights of minorities and ethical communities, the situation of members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia in Slovenia has not been dealt with by any government, although it has been the reality of their existence for many years, although we have been reminded of the irregular protection of collective rights in addition to our institutions of the Ombudsman, also international institutions and international documents. With their signatures to the declaration, DeSUS Members confirmed the need to draw up a document that would constitute an important step towards increasing understanding and giving more attention to the minority problem of peoples who were present in Slovenia before it was born. The presence of members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia in today's territory of the Republic of Slovenia is due to the emigration processes for economic reasons, which mainly took place in the 1970s. In the census, approximately 11% of the people in the former SFRY region were said to belong to the peoples of the peoples, which means that according to the entire structural population, the people of the former Yugoslavia represent a significant proportion. According to the structure of non-Slovenian nationals, these people represent 90% of the share. Given the high proportion of members of these communities on the map of Slovenia, it is appropriate to declare them equivalent to the majority population in our political documents and to try to proceed to the formal regulation of the situation and, above all, to find a way to create a dialogue at the state level. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome and fully support the proposed, complementary document on the home working body, which we estimate will contribute to the treatment and regulation of this long-standing and open social issue of the existence and recognition of the ethnic diversity of our fellow citizens, fellow citizens who, in our opinion, are entitled to the fact that the country in which they reside, work, co-creates it, finally to their collective position by their written document, and lays down certain normative frameworks for the future. We are convinced that for the successful and good development of a society like that in our country, it is essential to be aware of the diversity of nationalities, to accept them and to take them into account, and to be clearly defined, not least. Only mutually recognized nationalities can co-exist and create co-existence between multicultural and multiethnic societies. As has already been said, in the DeSUS Group we welcome and support the declaration of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u164	Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. That is right – the "national" that everyone fucks, which counts at least the inhabitants of all neighbours, will support greater than himself, who are still serving him after existence, stealing material and cultural bases and, of course, the territory. A Slovenian film must not arise if at least one role is not in the Balkan language. Most TV programs are in Balkan languages at all, and the nationalist practically does not record a TV show that no Balkan language is included. In kiosk, you barely notice the press in Slovenian. We even crapped the central log of Work with English. We're truly a fugitive in space while we still exist. I want to know what declaration they accepted in Germany. "Multicults is the same gescheitert," said Merklov, but our culture can no longer be harmed by any foreign implant. We fought so hard for her that we killed or banished half of our own and destroyed our own culture. However, the national economy has collapsed so that it will not be known at all if we devote everything we have or everything we have to strangers. The third phase of the final disassembly of Slovenia has been successfully completed. We count our years 1918, 1941, 1991. In fact, the century before 1918, we were scrupulously striving for a "United Slovenia". When the constitutional documents were for her with the manifesto Karl I. On 16 October 1918, on the table, Korošec converted to spit and Slovenian ethnicism into a decaying minority in four foreign countries, dismembered the national territory and changed the national name to "troed tribe". Tribes, as used for animals. Then, during the second war, we were decimated, murdered, banished. After the war systematically confused, and when this did not definitively destroy Slovenia, they invented a liberation that, after everything that is going on, means a third, final and apparently successful phase of destruction. Before his independence, Pučnik said on Ptuj: "We will not allow the re-osupply of Slovenia". Looks like we forgot about the Colonel. We forgot about why we wanted to go our separate ways. And now we will open up a new Yugoslavia in the territories of the Republic of Slovenia, so that no one in any of these countries of the former Balkans thinks of anything like this, not to talk about how they do not think about it in Austria, Hungary, Italy and Croatia, where we are Slovenians, some obscenity minority that needs to be destroyed as soon as possible, and they are doing so successfully. What about us? We take care of everyone else, just don't worry about our people. Our government does nothing for our minorities abroad. What if I even talked about Slovenians somewhere else than in neighbouring countries? Nothing at all. I think this is a very perfidious way of bringing the former communist-proclaimed brotherhood and unity that you want to bring into the Slovenian country with this declaration. Of course, some people don't care what happens, but they will quietly go to their weekends in Istria, the islands, the Krk, there are mostly there, and elsewhere. But if you think this will give you respect in those nations whose members you want to raise above the level of ordinary Slovenians and give them special rights, you're fucking wrong. We are not in the Slovenian National Party and we will never be in favour of such a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u166	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Secretary of State, co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! With the declaration on the policy of the Republic of Slovenia towards the new national communities ahead of us, we want Members and Members in particular to regulate the issue of members in the Constitution of the designated national communities. Slovenia, as a democratic country, must be aware of the need for better regulation of the situation of new national communities, which are not defined in the Constitution. In doing so, Slovenia recognises and follows their changed position after independence. This decision is certainly accompanied by the fact that the majority of the countries of the former SFRY in their constitution or in their legislation are specifically governed by the rights of the peoples of the former common country. The proposed declaration therefore certainly constitutes an improvement in the situation of Slovenian citizens who, by nationality, are members of the peoples of the former SFRJ. The declaration which is before us and which has been tabled for quite some time has been drawn up with the agreement of the Government and the two Members of the indigenous national communities, Italy and Hungary. Representatives of the new national communities also participated in the content and design of the declaration. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the Declaration on Policy towards the New National Communities, which seeks to improve their position as well as their role, but not in terms of the constitutional arrangements of collective status or arrangements, as are the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, because in the case of modern-day national communities or ethnic groups, these are groups of immigrants whose members live scatteredly, in different places, in different parts of Slovenia. It is therefore an organised integration of members of the community who are linked by nationality, language and culture. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will advocate the right to design and implement programmes to preserve the language and culture of their nationalities or ethnic communities. We will also advocate the preservation of the presence of national communities and the creation of new forms and models of their active cooperation to integrate human resources potentials into social life. Above all, we will insist on the spirit of multiculturalism. If you remember, the Presidency of Slovenia marked the year of intercultural dialogue for the Council of the European Union. In addition, intercultural dialogue was one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We support the adoption of a declaration, as it means a step closer to better visibility and the presence of new national communities in public and political life, and, last but not least, they will be able to communicate with the government through the Council. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not contain provisions relating to the protection of collective rights of members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia in Slovenia, but their individual rights are adequately guaranteed in Articles 14, 61 and 62 of the Constitution. As has already been said on behalf of the applicants, the key reasons for the submission of the declaration were the following: the good organisation of members of these communities, the Ombudsman, who has for several years recommended to the National Assembly and the Government the establishment of a strategy for the regulation of minority rights, which is not specifically defined in the Constitution, the recommendations and warnings of international supervisory bodies for the protection of human rights and the rights of minorities from the recommendations of the Council of Europe to the European Union. If I finish. According to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, the declaration is certainly an appropriate act that responds to the initiatives of representatives of the new national communities who want an appropriate name and space to be discussed and put forward proposals to improve their and thus the common position of all. The declaration gives recognition to the linguistic, cultural and educational rights of members of the new national communities, as well as to the basis for our representatives abroad, which in various situations are faced with issues concerning the settlement of the issue of new national communities in Slovenia. Finally, the declaration also closes the issue of political representation. That is why we will support the declaration in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u168	Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the group of unrelated Members. He's not here. Mr László Göncz has the word on behalf of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, colleague and colleague! In opening, I would like to say that both Members within our Group agree with the purpose and content of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Policy of the Republic of Slovenia towards the new national communities, and we will therefore support this document in the vote. It is an indisputable historical fact that, as a result of the dissolution of the former common country in Slovenia, there has also been a political and substantive change in the situation in terms of the status of members of the nations originating in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. The Republic of Slovenia is undoubtedly one of those countries of the European Union which has done much in the field of legal protection of indigenous national communities in the legislative field. Also because, for several other reasons, it is justified that, even in the case of so-called modern national communities, in accordance with established human rights standards and taking into account the specifics of our geographical area, it should also approach the appropriate resolution or regulation of this area. In this case, they are national communities which have a steady activity in the interests of maintaining their own identity and their mother tongue, which must be carried out within regulated legal and systemic frameworks. I am confident that the adoption of this declaration will contribute to the co-existence of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia belonging to different national and linguistic communities. In our wider geographical space, I think primarily in Central and South-Eastern Europe, from a national perspective, mutual relations have always been an important element of stability and good cooperation, regardless of who the majority and who the minority were at some historic point in time. Of course, historical circumstances have an impact on the regulation of the situation, which has led to certain situations and minority status, but the very need to resolve such issues must not be conditioned solely by this. Today there can be no question of why there are different migrations in the second half of the twentieth century. The fact is that in the then common country, larger or smaller national communities have been established in the former republics, in Slovenia, due to the economic situation, they have become numerically large. Today, the task is to ensure that those who have chosen the Republic of Slovenia as their home country are able to maintain their linguistic and cultural identity. In doing so, it should only be pointed out that it would be untransparent, and also for other reasons, if the rights and systems of those communities were identified by the rights of indigenous national communities, which have been bound for centuries to the territory where they live. In the case of the indigenous national community, the protection system of collective minority rights is at the heart of a very different legal, substantive and territorially differentiated situation in the case of the new national communities. It is not a more or less important community, because such classifications would be a major mistake, but a different situation of one or another group, and we therefore consider the proposed declaration to be correct, useful and worthy of support from this point of view. To conclude, there are questions that this declaration does not regulate the area in its entirety, as there are still communities that are not covered anywhere. But I'm not getting into this right now. Undoubtedly, these suggestions must be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u170	Mrs Janja Klasinc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u171	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished representatives of the Alliance of Alliances, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have been working for many years in the Republic of Slovenia to regulate the collective rights of those Slovenian citizens who, according to their nationality, are members of the nations with whom we formed a former country together. Therefore, in our pre-election programme, we have already expressed our commitment to ensure that the members of the national communities of Albanians, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Croats, Macedonians and Serbs, who represent almost 11% of the Slovenian population, are given the best possible expression of their collective rights both at national and local level. For many years these rights have been pursued by associations of members of these nations united into the Union of Cultural Associations of Constitutional Nations and Nationality of the former SFRJ in Slovenia. My colleague Potrče and I were happy to respond to their initiative a year ago to explore together the possibilities for their greater involvement in the Slovenian institutional society. The result of all these efforts is before us today, addressing a declaration firmly supported by the entire coalition, as well as part of the opposition. Unfortunately, some in the opposition do not understand the difference between those immigrants who have come to Slovenia for short periods of time for economic and perhaps some other reasons, and between those immigrants who have come to Slovenia decades ago and who have co-created and co-created this independent Slovenia with us today. Again, others, who have already made it clear here that they will renounce their support for this declaration, have sought their electoral assistance a few years ago very intensively among the members of these nations. However, we are all aware in this Chamber that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as national minorities, defines only members of Italian and Hungarian nationalities, and especially Roma. The Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Rights, which has also been ratified by the National Assembly, leave the States Parties to determine for themselves ethnic groups treated as national minorities. Therefore, the international authorities for the control and implementation of obligations relating to minority protection have never challenged our regime as enshrined in the Constitution, but they have long warned us that we must find appropriate opportunities to regulate the situation and legal arrangements of the status of peoples from the former common country. The regulation of the status of members of the peoples of the former common country has been noted by the Ombudsman of Human Rights in Slovenia for a poor decade. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are confident that today's acceptance of the declaration on the policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the new national communities will open the door for a faster and more effective resolution and realization of the collective rights of those peoples. While these were at the time of the establishment of the country, to date they have already received some of them since the Republic of Slovenia financed or co-financed their cultural activities and individual projects, but we are convinced that for the full institutional involvement of the members of these national communities, it is necessary to establish a special body with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through which they would express, coordinate and apply all the open issues facing members of these nations. The early realization of the objectives enshrined in this declaration will only help to make Slovenia more recognizable as a democratic, multicultural society. The acceptance of the declaration that we are considering today will prove more that the Slovenians are a confident nation, which, by allowing their fellow citizens of other nationalities, only strengthens their own identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u172	Mr Alexander Zorn has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Declaration of Policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the new nationalities groups will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It seems to us that the place of the former Yugoslavia is, however, also a cultural space that includes the life of the nationalities who have shared their history here, and it is therefore our cultural and civilisational task to allow them to feel unscathed by this declaration. At the same time, we must say at least three. First time. We'll be in a hurry with little steps. This does not mean that we have all these nationalities entered into our constitution immediately, because the declaration will have to be supplemented by other nationalities who have already lived and live here. Another time. Such a new Yugoslavia, as some parties fear, will not just happen. Third time. Very important. The Slovenian Democratic Party is a self-sustaining party, a party that did not wish to have a totalitarian regime, a dictatorial regime, and did not commit itself against its nationalities living in the Yugoslavia area, but against the regime, so it has nothing against these nationalities and wants them in its community. Finally, some remark to the proposaler, who wrote in the first sentence, that nationalities were a constitutional element of Yugoslavia. Dear Mr Potch, you didn't know how to answer that. I'm helping you. The constitutional element of Yugoslavia was socialism and not nationalism. This is what we have left behind, so we will include the culture, as it should be, and not socialist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u174	Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! We have a final declaration that's been coming in for quite some time. I'm one of the signatories to the first initiative. Our Group of Members has always supported and participated in the drafting of this document. From a strictly legal point of view, there is no special legal movement, as members of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia living in Slovenia are still entitled to those rights arising from the present Constitution, which were confirmed immediately after the independence of Slovenia and also before the independence of Slovenia. If you remember, it was then ensured that none of the rights guaranteed would be lost in the new country. Then things happened that were not always an honor to our democracy. The Ombudsman and formerly the Ombudsman have for several years pointed out this lack of rights and visibility of the national communities that lived here at the moment this country was created. But today I am pleased to note that the entire Parliament, with one exception that has been expected, but this time also large opposition parties, together with the coalition support this declaration, is an excellent message not only to our citizens and citizens, not only to members of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia, who live here as public citizens of Slovenia, but it is also a good message to Europe, Czech Republic, Slovenia respects rights and wants to implement them by gradually recognising the subjectivity of these national communities not only as individual citizens, but as organised communities that want to preserve and nurture their own cultural identity. This is why a body is formed to ensure the coordinated functioning of the Government in constant contact with representatives of the national communities. As you know in the uncontested broadcasting law, there was a very similar diction and we wanted to introduce some of the substantive elements of respect for these rights there. I come from Kopra, enough to walk our streets to find that we live in a multicultural reality and that members of the former Yugoslav nations are an integral part of our everyday life. Bosniak is a local in Cyprus, Serbia is a local in Cyprus, Montenegro is a domestic in Cyprus, Albanian is a domestic in Cyprus, Macedonian is a domestic in Cyprus, like Italians and Slovenians. I think that this can only be proud of us and to confirm that if I paraphrase my colleague Zorn, I do not need ideological frameworks, but only some common sense, and I think this declaration today is an expression of common sense and also of the desire to coexist and live in coexistence with our citizens, regardless of their nationality. After all, who doesn't have any relatives belonging to another cultural circle. We have not forgotten the link that also binds us to the entire former Yugoslav space, and this does not mean that the identity of the majority people in this country is at risk, but, more importantly, that is the wealth, added value of our cultural identity. That is why we will be happy to support this declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u176	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have been tabled. The vote on the proposal for a declaration will take place in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 24th regular session, which will be resumed by the vote at 4 p.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u177	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences, as part of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Law on Offences." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 2. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jerajev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. In Article 5, we propose to delete the second indent, the one that says that voluntary work is not considered to be free of charge, which is intended to satisfy only the personal interests of members of a member organisation and is not of general social benefit. It seems to us that in this way we needlessly narrow down the place where voluntary work is to be done and thus exclude certain societies and groups. However, the Minister explained that in this case all those who walk or who are members of cultural and other societies could then be required or registered as voluntary organisations, which is not the purpose of this law. We estimate that this is not the case, because if the state is to promote volunteerism, even this year, when it is a year of volunteering, we cannot limit and explain where this voluntary work should be and where it should not be. Such a proposal was made by the Slovenian Youth Council, and we have followed it because we estimate that there is no point in bringing it back to life. Let voluntary action take place wherever it is, as long as it is truly voluntary work and those who choose to do so do not expect payment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u179	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 37. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 9. If this amendment is not adopted, it will become an amendment to Article 9. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Here we propose that, since they are related to paragraphs 7 and 9, I will talk in this case about Article 9, we propose to delete paragraph 3 and 4 of Article 9, because we have determined with the Law on Religious Freedom or have declared that the churches and other religious communities are registered, that they are doing a public service, that they are socially beneficial work and that we treat them as such, and that we take this into account, by these two paragraphs, third and fourth paragraphs, and in Article 9. Thus, voluntary organisations cannot be political parties, trade unions, employers' associations, professional and professional associations, registered churches and other religious communities. After that, the Government in paragraph 4 gives them the possibility that, for example, religious communities can also be voluntary organisations, but only if they are engaged in humanitarian activities. This seems to us to be the marriage of what they are doing and why we say they are doing a good job in the public domain, and it seems to us that they are remarrying. In addition, it also prevents others, pension companies or other organisations which do not have the status of a humanitarian organisation at the same time in order to be voluntary organisations. By supporting the amendments we have proposed to Articles 7 and 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u181	We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted, 38 to 36. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted for 36 to 38. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and really Article 18. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour and 47 in favour against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. If this amendment is adopted, the second amendment to Article 23 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour and 36 in favour against 35. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 24. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 35 votes to 36. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 32 votes to 37. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 50. We're voting. 71 Members and Members, 33 votes to 37. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Finally, we decide on the second amendment to the 50th Article of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I am proposing further consideration of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the drafter proposes that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the draft law on Thursday 3 February 2011 after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law, under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home work body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their Areas, under the regular procedure. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 5. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled to Article 9 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 33. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments, with a second reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 9 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates, do you intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, and I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Bonding and Real Legal Relations in Aviation, following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Law on Obligations and Real Conditions in Aviation". We're voting. 71 present is a Member and Members, 69 voted against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the new national communities. Since the amendments to the supplementary proposal have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal for a declaration inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 3. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by the Member of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the protection of the Slovenians living in Kosovo." We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 37. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the following time on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Zvonko Černač's question on access to archives. Mr Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support this proposal for a decision and ask for the support of the others. The highest legal act of the State is the Constitution. The second word in Article 2 refers to the rule of law. If Slovenia is a legal country, however, laws apply in Slovenia. The laws apply to everyone. Those who do not respect them must be punished. We are talking about the fact that a government official named Director of the Owé decided that the laws did not apply. The State Security Service archive has been open since 2007. On 19 October last year, he decided that this archive was classified and that it was also declared and treated as such. It means that the official has stood up to the law, to the government and to Parliament and also to the constitution. In any normal country, any President of the Government would have acted by replacing this official, probably that minute and not a minute later. That's not how it happened with us. If a senior civil servant violates the law, in my opinion it is also allowed for an ordinary worker to break the law for 500 euros, ladies and gentlemen who do not listen to me. Let's just say he doesn't pay the bill, he doesn't pay the tax. Yeah, why would I? If a high official is allowed to break the law, then why should that citizen respect him? We're at an important turning point to call this officer a no. However, we are at a critical stage this week, which is called the Prime Minister and the Government are still planning to adopt a law along with a coalition majority that will cover the illegal conduct of this official. But it is true that we have a fundamental misunderstanding. This morning, on the first part of Mrs Potrate's committee, we heard the Minister say that the members of the State Security Service co-created Slovenia. We have further heard the Director say he is continuing the work of the State Security Service and is therefore obliged to protect back. Ladies and gentlemen, where do you live? SD, in 1996, you said, "We've been distancing ourselves from history, we're not covering the past before 1990." The Prime Minister is talking about not defending the actions of the former service. Yeah, well, where are we, then where do we live? And that's exactly what you intend to do with the marriage. And that's exactly what we need to talk about before this law comes to the vote. And this is absolutely necessary in the context of the debate, although we would like to discuss really the people who live hard, not the cover-up of crimes from the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u185	Mr. Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats will not support this proposal for a debate in the National Assembly. We also refer to a regulation on the extradition of material from the archives of the former State Security Service adopted by the former Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was published in the Official Journal on 6 June 2007. So the material relates to the State Security Service and was created before May 17, 1990. This material has been handed over to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. And in Article 4 of this Regulation, referring to the applicable law of 2006, referring to the Law on Slovenian Intelligence to the Agency and to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this Article 4 first, "The Archive of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure, where necessary on grounds of national security and on the proposal of the Director of the Agency, the special protection and accessibility of the material provided for in Article 2 of this Regulation. The Commission shall determine the form and manner of transmission of the storage of the material delivered." It is said that both the director of Sowe and the director of the Archive acted properly and in accordance with the law and this regulation adopted by the previous – your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u187	Mr. Gorenak, in his own name. Excuse me, Mr Wingo Jelinčič The nobles have an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We will support the proposal for a debate. It should be said that the special protection referred to earlier by a colleague does not constitute closure and a ban on viewing. It's something essential else. This means that it is particularly protected so as not to destroy itself. But we also have a feeling in our client, and perhaps some indications that certain documents are being destroyed, and that certain documents could reveal the strange connections of some other living gentlemen and ladies, including in political situations, and in fact shed a different light on their then functioning and today's declaration. It may also be possible that someone in the former regime had cooperated with other intelligence services to the detriment of the then common country. Perhaps it would have proved that some, which is today a great Slovenian, would have been against Slovenia and against what direction to change the regime and for democratic change. And that's what they're afraid of. Perhaps it would also prove that someone was in fact dirty with something worse that we could declare as a crime of such or different kind. And I think it makes sense for these things to open up. After all, it is necessary to know that copies of these archives, in some cases even were original, in Belgrade and be sure that Belgrade will put this on the table sooner or later. But they will put it on the agenda when it is most convenient for them, not when our historians have been able to process the subject during this time, to publish it, to publish it in books, in scientific debates, and to essentially arrange what they should have done long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I see there are several requests for explanations of vote. I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Andrey Magajna has an explanation for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u190	I will vote in favour of this debate. It is very important in its own way, although it seems to be a marginal matter. Someone was denied access to the archive. However, this is a number of things, the issue of declared distance from history, from ploy. In these days, this matter is being tested whether after 20 years we are able to cut through the anomalies of the previous system. It is not about reviving the past, but about testing the functioning of the rule of law today. Today, Igor Omerza was denied access to archives. An illegal act was committed today. Today someone has protected someone. He knows why. We ask that this debate be held and that we can honestly say what is going on with these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u192	I will certainly vote in favour of this debate because I see that many have simply not read what the government has sent to Parliament, nor have many by the ruling coalition. Today, for example, in the morning, it was said on the committee that only individuals, those who were affected, could be seen in Stasia’s archives. However, if you read at least government material, what your own government has prepared for you, in the third indent, when talking about Germany and the Gavk Institute and Stasi archives, it is clear that it is their task to provide and even encourage you to look at the material, without limitation, for the purpose of scientific, political or other historical research, that is to say, with exactly the purpose of changing the law in order to prevent Mr Omerza's insight. This means, of course, what is Europe's direction and that is because you want to be under the pretext of ensuring this because it is a European direction and you are doing the exact opposite. In Germany, these archives are established with a view not only to ensure, but also to promote, scientifically, in-kind, political research and thus behaviour on the operation of the secret services of the totalitarian regime. In our case, that is precisely what the rule of law is trying to prevent, which is the worst, because it allows an individual to stand over the law that he would be obliged to enforce, even in violation of the Constitution, because one of the fundamental principles is, Slovenia is the rule of law. If this is tolerated or if the Government is trying to legalise it backwards, then it is clear that there is nothing left of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u193	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote in favour, but let me read you two paragraphs in one Supreme Court decision No 187 of 1998. It was also about the disclosure of a document by the State Security Service, and someone was suing someone. The content of the document reads as follows: "The publication of the Secret Service document was therefore in the public interest in a given case, because it was a revelation of a part of the historical event that is still taking place in modern times..." It was therefore a matter of publishing a secret document, and today we are talking about public documents that Mr Omerza does not get and that is why you are changing the law so that he will not get them in the future. The same judgment states: "Today it is well known that the State Security Service not only dealt with intelligence tasks, but also organised criminal activities itself, committed crime and deliberately challenged the existence of crimes and responsibility for them..." It goes on to say that she erased her tracks and that the victim was more or less non-members, as she thought, and especially in the pre-1990s emerging opposition. This is what the minister says must be protected because it co-created Slovenia. This is what the director says must continue the tradition. Is that it? This is not what it is for me, and it is therefore necessary to vote in favour of this proposal. As for all the 1996 declarant cases, stick them to your hat when you say you've broken up with the past. You didn't! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this debate. I get the feeling that at times I am really at some other time and not in 2011. I don't know who we're afraid of, why we're scared of, who we're protecting. Many times have been said: No one is untouchable. I guess it is. And even if we ask ourselves that we have made mistakes ourselves, Slovenia in the past, against anyone else, any of our politicians, representatives and so on, that it has made some mistakes against other countries, against whom I do not know, it must be acknowledged. And it is civilisational to apologize, as many countries have done in Europe. Germany and others. This is European and civil. If someone's done something wrong and we're protecting someone here. Otherwise, listen, in 2011, that we will hide a truth from ourselves from not knowing how many years ago, we lie to ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Franco Juri has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I will not support this debate for a simple reason, because this issue is being discussed all week. Today we have met in the early hours, we will continue the debate on the parental committee. All the parliamentary groups are discussing this tomorrow, all the party presidents and the end of the week will continue to discuss and vote on this issue. This requirement is irrelevant. And it's irrelevant. Today we have heard arguments about such a law and it is clear that no one is closing this archive. Everyone will have access to archival material concerning internal policy issues under the previous regime. Today we have also heard that there were thousands and so many informants, spies, then intelligence, that there were 5,000 supervised persons. I know for myself that I was also one of those 5,000 controlled people. But I wonder if all those who now demand this debate have been so controlled or were on the side of those who supervised. Let's be clear, transparent. It is a matter of establishing order and normal operation where a pluralized commission will identify and assume responsibility for those parts of the material that may be harmful to national security and to individuals. That's clear. And that will only concern the operation of intelligence services abroad. There's no dilemma here. I don't think this debate makes any sense at this level right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Marjan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u200	Mr President, I will, of course, support this proposal for a debate. But I'd like to ask all my colleagues who are sitting in the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u201	Comrade Pojbich, there's nothing to ask right now, just explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u202	Mr President, it has never happened before that I should not be interrupted, whether you or anyone is leading this meeting, and I do not think this is right. I have the right to say what I think I'm explaining my voice. One more time. Are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia obliged to respect the laws in force? [[advertising from the hall]] So we came to that conclusion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u203	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u204	So there are people and elites in this country who do not need to respect legislation. [[...]] And that is the fundamental question that we are talking about today. We're not even talking about archives, because at this point, they're not the key archives. It is crucial that the senior public official did not respect the law in force in that country. This is a key issue and we must face it. Tell me if it is possible that there is a country in the world that has some order, where the government is right and so on, if those who live in this country do not respect the law. This then leads to a complete anarchy. And that is what is happening in this country right now — a perfect anarchy! Those in authority do not respect the laws adopted by the National Assembly. Then the National Assembly, if the laws are not respected, we do not need to! Tell me why we're sitting in this House! Let's go home! We'd better work, help people so they can survive! Let's do this! Let's do this! We do not sit here, we adopt legislation, and then we do not respect these laws ourselves. This is the absurdity of all absurdities. Believe me, such governments, which so rule citizens and citizens, do not deserve. I will therefore be very pleased to support this debate to clarify this fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the proposal to discuss the Government's response to the question raised. It should be pointed out that the Law on the Protection of Archives and Archives allowed the archives to be fully opened before 17 May 1990. There is no country that would leave complete openness to materials. And the knowledge that something in the material of the Owl and these archives could threaten the security of the State or the lives of individuals, has finally revealed the previously cited regulation adopted by the Government of Janez Janša in 2007, which allowed for the possibility that part of the material identified as having what effect its disclosure might have on the security of the State should be marked with this label and closed for publication. The previously quoted experience of Germany – at this morning’s meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, I quoted a German scientist as saying that no German archive, including Stasius, is fully open to the public and under what conditions is open to the public. And that for hundreds of years there are also restrictions on publishing certain materials. The years for when material can become public are very different from country to country. Our research center did a comparative study. Go take a look at it, and then we can discuss that what has been circulating in public lately, that the attempt of the novel of this law is the closure of archives, is simple deception and manipulation. Normally, if we ask the individual whether it is necessary to close the archives to say 'no', but it has to be said that it is only some sensitive documents that cannot be accessible to everyone at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is Miran Potč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I won't support the proposal. Firstly, we are likely to discuss this issue further this week at many meetings of the home work bodies and to adopt legislation. Why we should discuss the answer to the same question once again, I simply do not understand. Secondly, the facts are spreading to close documentary material before May 19th 1990 for anything that might be disputed. It's a pure lie. The material of all former social and political organisations is fully open and is also open to the material of the security services concerned with internal action, but not when it concerns activities in information and counter-intelligence activities outside. If anyone has an interest in this activity being fully disclosed in public, even to the detriment of the functioning of the State and of human rights, I do not have this desire. However, we will solve the problem because, through law, it is proposed, a commission will be appointed in which the majority of the opposition will be able to verify and assess each document as to whether it can harm national interests and human rights. If it hurts, it won't be public if it doesn't, it'll be public. And two more things. Slovenia interrupted any political continuity with the previous system in 1990 and Slovenia did not break the legal continuity. If there was no legal continuity, there would be no independence of Slovenia, there would be no division of Yugoslavia, there would be no international recognition, because for this there were grounds in the documents adopted by the previous authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. John Grill has an explanation for his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote in favour of this proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the purpose of closing archives, and in particular on the reasons – where there is a more suitable space for such as the National Assembly. Why are you trying to prevent this matter from taking place in a public place, in order to disprove all those allegations, all those non-realitys that are now being put in public by the Government and coalition members in particular? You want to cover all the weights for why these archives want to close. Why?Oh, my God! From 2007 to yesterday there was no such need, such an interest, there was no danger that national security would be compromised in order to put individuals at risk. It is true, however, that now that Mr Omerza has sought to obtain some documents in a particular area of these archives, it is probably hard for someone to recall that it would apply to the idea of revealing the true identity of a high political official or perhaps even more, with which his image, which he now has in the public eye, would be denied. And that's why you're willing to do everything you can to undermine the rule of law, try to conceal those acts that I believe are today the salt for the wounds of those who were at that time actors of various terrorist assassinations, and now this should be disguised in some way. I therefore ask why there was no Minister of Culture, Director of Sova, on that national show, where there could be expert arguments, with expertise, to present what is so dangerous to the state of Slovenia. Because it wasn't, they weren't, either, because they'd be so embarrassed. Historians, who are all formerly neutral, are more politically left-handed, have publicly presented that they do not see any fear in order to reveal those data in any way threatened by Slovenian national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has an explanation for his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u212	I won't support the debate. The Law on Archives was created following a previously cited decision by the Constitutional Court. And once again, the Law of 2006, the Archives Act, allowed access to all these documents, but in 2007, a good year after the entry into force of the archival law, the same government adopted a regulation on the extradition of materials from the archive of the former State Security Service. And this Regulation, in Article 1, regulates the extradition of material from the archives of the former State Security Service to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, the extradition method, the appointment and composition of the commission that carries out the expulsion and the place and the manner in which this archive is stored. Article 2 defines this material. This material is the material of the State Security Service before May 17, 1990. Article 3 specifies the Commission for the removal and collection of material from the archive of the former State Security Service, which is also the most extensive Article of this Regulation. Article 4 states explicitly: "The archive of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure, where necessary for reasons of national security and on the proposal of the Director of the Agency, the special security and accessibility of the material provided for in Article 2 of this Regulation. The Commission shall determine the form and manner of the surrender and storage of the material delivered." Article 5 states that this Regulation shall enter into force on the following day. The date is 4 June 2007, and is signed by Prime Minister Janez Janša. It is said that this matter of which we now swear is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Dr. Luke Juri has an explanation for the vote on his behalf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I will not support this debate because it will not lead us to any conclusion. But all I want to do is say, "Hail WikiLeaks."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has an explanation for the vote in his name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you. I will, of course, support the request. But I would like to point out that this is essentially a matter of laziness. I don't know why because of one thing, I agree that all things, and they can't be revealed, because it's actually a matter of national security. But why would you put the label "strictly confidential" on the whole box, where there are 100 things, but there's only one in there that's entitled to these stickers. It seems to me that it would be good and fair if those who are not really to be exposed would move away and leave the others open. Once again, I stress that this is a matter of laziness. And now, if someone doesn't feel like separating what's open and what's closed, we're going to discuss it. It's just like that. Well, I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Rudolf Petan has an explanation of vote in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I don't see why these archives can't open. Besides, we're talking about archives here, but it's something else. It's about respect for the law. It's about how a government official can say that I won't respect the law because he doesn't like it, and that some documentation he owns is classified, secret, top secret, and no one will be able to see it. Beyond the law. Because the law clearly states that this must not happen, that these archives are public and that anyone who wants to, I don't know, for study purposes, any other, can see it. And that's what this is all about. So where would we go if every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia said, "I don't like this law and I won't respect it?" Then let's, I don't know, the Constitutional Court find out if I'm right or wrong, and we're going to go to amend the legislation to give me the right because I did it on my own. That's not working. In addition, see how you strive to push this thing down so that it is not discussed. We discussed this issue this morning on the Education Committee. And look, look at him, for the fourth hour the press didn't have a sound so they could record this session until they intervened, there was no sound. And that's an accident? Don't convince me, I've been in these waters so long, I know nothing happens by accident and nothing happens by accident. And then, of course, there won't be a magnetogram. It points to, I don't know, fear. From what? I don't know what you're afraid of. As far as I know, it is the archives of the State Security Service, which in fact was not in any legislation at all, the secret police have not been defined anywhere, and you are now afraid to open these archives. Why are you hiding what wasn't even there? That's incomprehensible. I will, of course, support a broader debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much, President. I must say that I do not support the debate. Above all, I was convinced by yesterday's appearances by opposition colleagues that I was not in place, that there was no need. When we voted on the rapid procedure, it was said that jobs should be discussed, the economic perspectives, the payment discipline, and now, for about 8 hours, there would be such discussions, and we would suddenly talk about the issue that Slovenia is arguing and sharing. And this is what one of the Members has said to me today. He said there was work to be done, no discussion. And that is why I think that the debate on this point is more than enough. I must say that in LDS, given that we are the successors of the Alliance of Socialist Youth, with which state security has been very busy for many years, since this party or organisation was the bearer of positive democratic changes, how and what they were dealing with our predecessors at the time. We also advocate the message that all acts that have a criminal past must be fully explored, and then a little breath, a dot and a thought must be made. If the opening of archives from these times would cause things that would harm this country today, then of course it is necessary to have the right measure and the right feeling. It is funny, however, that at times, when the heads of state security services were from the right parties, they carried archival material through Ljubljana in their suitcases. I am sure that the contents of these archives are no longer at issue today, but it is deplorable that someone who had to clean them has not done so to this day. However, there will be a long debate on this and I do not think there will be any need to look for answers to this question because they are going in the direction of political bickering and division.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I didn't mean to call. I'm from a profession that often uses archival material as a tool for its scientific research work. Of course, I cannot support this debate because we are discussing at the same time and will be discussing it today in the scenario announced by one of the SDS colleagues this morning – on twelve sequences. Today, we will have a night job as Members, and we will ask the entire administration to have women working in the night hours for the reason that we will discuss what is right and what is wrong. As far as deception or lies are concerned, once again, when we discuss it, let me just say what the government is really saying about the German archives. Some of us, as I said, know very well the work with the archives, and we know very well how it is used, and we also know that the one who uses it also returns it untouchable. And in the material when we talk about German intelligence, it's nice to see when the material is given, when it's given, and under what conditions, always the one that's not used anymore and can't serve any other purpose. The material which is exempted from the documentation, which also constitutes disclosure of breaches of the confidentiality of letters and communications, shall also be submitted. And something else is emphasized in the German archives of the security service that all this material can be used only when it is over 30 years of age. And I could read again this material that's written in government material. Thank you, my dear fellow, but I think we will have enough time in the next six, seven, nine hours to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Alice Jeraj has an explanation for her voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I will support the debate on Prime Minister Borut Pahor's response. Yesterday he said, "No, it's not my wish, not my instruction that any body, especially if it's under the authority of the government, would work contrary to the law. Everyone is obliged to respect the law and work within its framework." If that were true, at the time he found out what was going on, he would have ordered this office or the Owls in this case and the archives to comply with the law and do things as prescribed in the laws. But he obviously did something else. He ordered his minister to prepare a law quickly so that we could fix it and arrange it in a different way. That is why I will support this debate. Why can I say that? Minister Shirca, who said today that the archives have been a priority since the beginning of this mandate, has heard this for the first time, but it is obvious that this is true, she drafted a proposal last year to amend the law on documentary and archival material protection. This was discussed, public debate, and was supposed to reorganise the archival network, merge public archives, correct uncertainties, better protection and a whole bunch of other things. Nothing about anything being wrong with the law and jeopardizing even national interests. And in the third paragraph of Article 65, which is being amended very significantly by this amendment, it reads: "The archivic material which was created before the Assembly was formed, which relates to the SZDL, the Union of Unions, the Union of Socialist Youth, the Association of Fighters is accessible without restriction, except for archive material containing sensitive personal data. This is all that was written in the law that was in the public hearing last year and was supposed to come after a normal procedure to Parliament. At that time, the representatives of the Owl and the Archives probably also cooperated if they were such terrible problems that they must have felt when Dr. But when someone else wanted to do it, it was no longer possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Eva Irgle has an explanation of vote on his behalf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I will also support the request for a debate. I think that's more than necessary. Earlier, Mr Juri said that the debate would continue for quite some time today, then the party presidents will talk tomorrow, but colleague Juri forgot to mention that tomorrow at 8 a.m. we will also have the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, where we will also talk about this subject, but we will not only talk about the fact that the public authorities are shutting down access to archival material, but we will also talk about how the former secret political police or the State Security Service violated fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms and how it marked both the past time and the present, which is why we have the consequences of what they are. Let me say that we will invite people who have experienced various forms of repression directly or indirectly by the State Security Service to highlight these events. As my colleague Magajna said earlier, this is not about bringing up the past, but it is about dealing with the illegal situation at the moment, which was caused by the fact that the State authorities did not allow access to the archives of Mr Igor Omerza, even though this law allows. Therefore, how important this debate is. And I don't understand coalition colleagues who don't understand that if something's illegal, it's illegal, then we need to talk about it, even if we're talking for a week and a month. That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has an explanation of the voice in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I myself will support this debate, which is necessary, as I see from this debate and from these explanations, for entirely educational reasons to the coalition. The fact that members of the coalition do not have any distance to the erosion of the rule of law, to the fact that without prejudice, the Constitution and the law are denied and the law is not respected that the directors of state institutions simply whistle at the law and the Slovenian constitution, that is something unheard of. And I'm surprised by your attitude towards this. I understood from the Prime Minister's reply yesterday that he has some difficulty in realizing that in such a way that we are now in the process of reviving and overthrowing the constitution and the law, that he cannot go to Europe and cannot go to Europe in this way. But apparently the coalition is testing its ideological purity on a dogmatic relationship to the past. I cannot agree that the criminal method found by the Constitutional Court becomes the leader of anyone in this country, at least to become the leader of the ruling coalition, because then we are really far away. And that is why I urge you, colleagues and colleagues, to think about where this country is going in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Radovana Žerja related to liability for bank loans intended for disputed management acquisitions. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, I asked the President of the Government about the responsibilities associated with what was happening in the New Ljubljana Bank, also in connection with this public conflict that we are following between regulators, between the ATVP and the Bank of Slovenia, where some public, heavy accusations have fallen, but no one is moving in this country. I am surprised at the response of the President of the Government, who was about this: the regulators are independent. The Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank is independent. The administrations are independent. In short, everything is independent. But we do realize that we're all going for mushrooms. Of course, I do not agree with this independence and I do not accept that loans were granted for events that took place in the New Ljubljana Bank, where there was so much to do, on the basis of friendly links, and not any sort of a hundred million. And that no one will answer to the post-festum now. If we draw a parallel with the Post Slovenia, which operates well, which has a profit, we expect that in a short time the entire administration will be replaced due to a disputed, slightly overly high salary. From Post Slovenia is not a dependent financial system in Slovenia, it does not depend on the situation in the Slovenian economy. However, there are many things that depend on the New Bank of Ljubljana. It depends on the situation in the financial system and also depends on the situation in the Slovenian economy. One gets the feeling that even though the situation is what it is to talk about a few hundred million recapitalisations, no one will answer. More. The chairman of the board took away the millionth prize. I think that, however, it must be said that it is probably such independence in this country and it is not that no one should tell anyone that no one should ask anyone whether they have done everything right, whether the Bank of Slovenia has done everything right or whether the supervisors in the New Ljubljana Bank have done everything they should. There's more. I have mentioned many times, we have representatives of KBC, representatives of workers, unions, in fact. I believe that this debate is welcome and that we are starting to clear up these matters once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Joško Godca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Joško Godca on the government's planned priorities by the end of the term of office. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 65 votes against 4. Who's in? [[65 members.]] Who's against it? [[Four members.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marusic to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in connection with the reorganisation of maternity facilities. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u232	Dear colleagues! Recently, the Minister of Health has published on the websites and is now also in the public debate the Strategy for the Development of Gynaecological and Obstetric Services in the Republic of Slovenia. At a recent meeting of the Health Committee, different views, particularly the professions, on this issue, have been sharpened. Reputable professors from major health centres advocated the integration, integration and abolition of small births, while a number of experts, including prominent doctors from smaller births, claimed that there were no professional compelling grounds for the abolition of smaller births. At the meeting of the Committee, the discussion focused on the lack of and insufficient professional backgrounds and analyses resulting in conclusions, on the need to rationalise the maternity network and on the number set out there to be at least a thousand births on the maternity ward in order to have twins born every 14 days, etc. Some quantitative results were presented, which each maternity ward was supposed to have, otherwise it would not be a maternity ward. On the basis of this strategy, the Minister wanted Members of this Committee to follow the Action Plan as unreliable and not based on sufficiently convincing professional and reasoned bases. As a result, you know what an action plan means: abolishing what the minister intends to abolish. In fact, I am pleased with the unified view of the members of the Health Committee that the conclusions of this expert group, which has been preparing the strategy, are unreliable and not sufficient to justify such drastic intervention as the closure of some maternity facilities and thus a certain lack of accessibility to this health service to parents from remote places. Therefore, with respect, I propose that we also hold a public debate on this strategy in this House, that the Minister should explain his reasons, that there are also professional arguments and that Members can also express their position. The Minister must also receive a communication from this Parliament on the planned drastic interventions to this important health service, because I believe that this will also be a precedent for strategies in other areas: surgical activities, paediatrics, etc. I therefore ask for the support of the public debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SD Group, he shall have an explanation for the vote of the Magi. Andrea Richtar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam President. I oppose the proposal made by my colleague Visiak, but for the reasons stated by my colleague Visjak. We weren't so united on the board. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u235	No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u236	I'm sorry. We had our first debate on the committee, and I must say that the debate was a good one, but obviously we had a slightly different understanding. The strategy or analysis that has been carried out has been good and professionally supported, but some have been thinking in a different direction that this should be further upgraded or upgraded by viewing users or users as well. That is why we have also adopted certain conclusions and said that after the public debate is concluded, which is also taking place, we will have a first debate on the Health Committee, and then we can discuss and continue this debate in the National Assembly. On the other hand, I can say that we are united in one and the only matter, and this is that the Minister has taken a very good path, namely, the participation of both the professional public and the general public, and also comes before us with this debate and dialogue. And here is a well-planned path, so we are also confident in the Group of Members that this path, which it has drawn, will also lead to the end as agreed on by the Committee, which is probably the body where all these opinions would be exchanged further. However, we obviously have different views or different memories of the meeting, which has also taken place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The flower Zalokar Orazem has a word on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members will not support the proposal, because we are certainly not in the stage at which it would be appropriate and reasonable to discuss this issue in the National Assembly. It was only the first step, this is a step when the profession said and analysed on the basis of data on the situation in the field of maternity and gynaecology in Slovenia. We are always very full of our mouths that we need to take into account professional and professional opinions. This time, a policy or part of a policy has decided to deny professionalism and actually express skepticism and mistrust for what the expert said about security. And what the profession has said in this area is that it is necessary to consider whether in Slovenia 14 maternity homes may not be too many, or whether we have enough adequate and quality staff to ensure the full and full day-to-day and full-night opportunity to actually open this option at 14 locations in Slovenia. Finally, these are obstetrics, at least some of them, where in three shifts the whole team is working and every day we have only one delivery or even less. In this context, this is the beginning of the debate, which has unfortunately shown that, in fact, our mouths are full of things that we want to change, that we believe it is right to take into account the profession, especially the emphasis on security, and it will be important here what messages we will also give from this city, by policy, because it will be necessary to consider whether we can finance and staff in Slovenia and ensure adequate safety in 14 maternity homes and in more than 20 hospitals. The beginning of this hearing was a very clarinet, for the policy has shown that such changes will not be absolutely supported, but above all, it is a policy based on a regional story, which in some ways considers it more important to defend regional and professional positions and the safety of hospitals, to which, at least in this case, maternity experts have warned us that we are actually playing with fire when we are so easily advocating and engaging a local scene that we are actually convincing people how urgent it is. I think this debate is open at the moment, but it is not the right time for us to hold it in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Everyone here in this room, 71 of us, should be 90, we're Members. The messenger is not simply said for the sake of beauty, but because we have been sent, in the opinion, to the will of the people who have elected us to the National Assembly. They sent us here to express their opinions at least once in a while. I don't understand why we shouldn't discuss the issue that is still before this debate is supposed to be a public debate, opened up, has already aroused so many debates and spirits that I really don't see why we shouldn't talk about it, because anyway we're going to talk about it a lot. And if there is already an open public debate, if the Ministry has argued that it wants to hear the opinions of others, then I do not know what they would not be talking about in the National Assembly about the contents of maternity wards. Why would you listen to evidence that is sometimes very ugly, like in one of these days, and I don't know if it's called a newspaper, and I won't call it, because I'm ashamed that if a relative dies, we'll be guilty of politics. It's debulosis, nebulosis, idiotism, there's no such thing. We are now all of a sudden at fault to politicians because we represent, at least I for Zasavje 45 000, I think almost the same opinions, colleagues from Brežice 20, 30, 40 thousand of the same opinions, and now we are politically opposed to some profession. We do not oppose any profession, we are grateful and appreciate it, but also those who work in a small hospital called Brežice, Trbovlje, Izola, Kranj, and elsewhere. Mommys are happy and happy, children, thank God, healthy and born. And what we have, doctors, quality cadres, pediatrics, surgery, we have everything to help people as close as possible, we want to stop. But for what? Don't hide! Why don't we discuss a problem that's going to be a problem. And this debate will come as soon as possible. We better do it now that it's time for her, because it's open, like we're doing it after I don't know what kind of laws are going to be in the process again. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party with open and fair intentions, we ask that we support the proposal to hold this debate in the National Assembly. So we can listen to the professions so they won't say we're deaf to them. And she will listen also to the messengers and to the messengers, to the people who sent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is given by Ljubo Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Even at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not support the proposal for this debate, which should be opened on the basis of the Minister's response. Not because we would consider that the content is not important, but for a simple reason, because after a multi-year debate on the Committee we heard such arguments from the profession on the one hand, the interested public on the other hand and the policies on the third hand, and then we adopted conclusions together in the coalition and the opposition. And one of the important conclusions was that, after a public debate, a document bearing the title of the Strategy for the Development of Gynaecological and Paternity Activities in the Republic of Slovenia should be corrected, and once this strategy has been completed, we will return to the Health Committee and discuss this strategy. Of course, we must also say here that we are witnessing the approach taken by the Minister of Health, who had the following sequence. First of all, a working group of experts has been set up to identify the area from a professional point of view. This was then addressed by the Expanded College of Experts and the Health Council. And on the basis of the adopted document of the Health Council, the Minister decided that this document would go to a public debate where it would be possible to complement this strategy with different aspects of the public concerned, the professional public, the political public, any. In doing so, the Minister made it clear, and it is also clear from this document that there is no closure of hospitals. In the definition of the indications of those who requested an urgent meeting on this issue, it referred to a document which was then supplemented by a strategy. From this point of view, it is necessary to respect and understand the professional proposal, which came mainly with a view to ensuring the safety and quality of services in the field of gynaecology and maternity. The Minister made it clear and clear that, through public debate, we will complement this strategy and then complement this strategy from an economic point of view, which will result in certain proposals for an action plan. I think it's a rational path. And if we want to have an expertise involved, which is obviously not possible to have at the plenary session here, then it makes sense to continue this debate on the committee itself. As we speak of this, it should be reiterated that, through the debate, we have unitedly supported the conclusions, where in the second conclusion we have clearly stated that the Minister should take into account the specifics of hospitals, the needs and satisfaction of patients. I think that here is enough what was the policy message to give us a more appropriate document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Alice Jeraj has an explanation for her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. It was said that it was too soon to talk about it in the National Assembly or that it would make no sense. We've talked about a lot of things in the National Assembly, and there's something else about the mess at the Clinical Center, so it's probably a much more appropriate topic than it was. I will therefore support the proposal to hold a debate on the response of Minister Marusic. Those who talk about it and even in the media after this session were written down, whether the maternity wards should be more or should be safer, it seems to me that this can be very dangerous to speak like this, because this means that we do not have safe obstetrics right now. This is a very bad sign, and not only is it dangerous and very bad, especially it is underestimating to all those who work in these smaller maternity homes, work hard and do good, otherwise it would not be the way it is. First of all, the minister had a reason why they might have closed those smaller maternity wards. Because they don't have twins, he's also got data on how many more births there have been in all these maternity wards in the last ten years. From this we can only find two that the minister first says something about what we will change, as is happening in this government of most ministers, a certain announcement, and then they start to explore whether they would really do it and seek a variant to support it with some kind of professional research. This is bad, because in this way we always upset people needlessly, we trigger various petitions that are of course legitimate, and it is right that people respond to this, but if they think more about it, they are more prepared, probably not going to happen at all. As it is said, I will support this debate and I think it is a topic that we should actually discuss and then decide together. We also decide when we have all the information, including the information of the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The debate before the debate is often problematic. We have some reasoned solution prepared by the profession. The profession put it into public debate and when this is over, then it will be time for policy to decide in terms of opportunity and finance. It should be borne in mind that we have a certain amount of money earmarked for the health treasury, which must be used most rationally with the greatest benefit for all citizens and citizens. Far from that, it means ending maternity care in a row. Surely the greatest, the best, will survive, for each region needs well-organised, quality best. It is interesting, however, if we put on a scale the use of resources, say in childbirth, and if we say that by rationalizing we save some amount of money that we will spend on open-heart operations, on brains that also directly save lives, then we might get a calculation under the line that we have made more money. It is funny, however, when we listen to the arguments of sociologists, geologists who discuss professional issues, about time, minutes, seconds that are crucial in childbirth. It is necessary to know that the birth of a physiological phenomenon and that there is more damage than the benefits, but it is very urgent for different hats to act quickly when there is a pathology or a problem, then a well - trained hospital or maternity hospital is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you will vote against it. Good. The explanation of vote in his own name is given by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I have had the opportunity to give birth three times in the past four years, but I still do not think that I am familiar with this subject, but I know that there are few people in this room who have had the opportunity to give birth or go into labor alone. That is why I do not imagine that I can decide on issues that are obviously of a professional nature. I know from my own experience that every delivery, at least I had three experiences, different, all three of them were in the same Ljubljana maternity ward, but I have to say that one of them was complicated and when it turned out that this was the case and that the child was in danger, two gynecology specialists, anesthetist and two nurses were in the early morning or late night hours, if you want. This cannot be ensured in every Slovenian maternity ward. That is why complicated births, when they appear and in maternity wards find that they are, move to the nearest better maternity care facility, depending on the territory in which the maternity ward is located. And that's what we should have in our heads when we decide. All Slovenian maternity homes are good, and if you look at the comparison of infant mortality, we are in the world summit, so few of these deaths. However, we have an alarmingly large number of maternal deaths, for besides the gynecological profession, it is good if there is someone else in the hospital who knows something else, and that is not always the case. I cannot support the proposal for this debate, because I am sure that we have no idea what we are going to talk about, at least most of us do not, but I know that Slovenian obstetrics have two problems in my opinion that they do not allow birth at home and that if you conclude that 14 hospitals are too small, then of course there should be several thousand of them so that each of the parents can give birth at home, and, secondly, it is shameful that in 9 of the 14 Slovenian births, fathers or partners have to pay for the birth. These are problems of Slovenian gynecology, not anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Are you going to vote against it, too? You forgot to tell me. The explanation for the vote is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u250	I will, because it would be good for the whole Parliament to be aware that the profession is not as uniform as it appears. I'm already a professor. Pajntar, the Head of the Health Commission for Quality, advocates maternity wards, which are small and close to people, so it is a very different concept than is now adopted at the Ministry. On the other hand, it would be good to discuss in this House whether it is right for people to take advantage of the constitutional institution which has the basis of Article 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia until the petition has been signed, and then the Minister does not at first accept their signatures in order to inform him of their expressed will on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I submit that there is something very wrong in this democratic way. Finally, I firmly believe that it would be good for all known parliamentary struggles for gender equality and against hate speech to have the right to make public statements by representatives of the government about 20,000 unhappy mothers, and for 100,000 unhappy mothers who are not yet professional, and this can decide against them, who do not really have problems with 20 additional kilometres to the maternity ward, but with 15 centimeters between the left and right ears. If this isn't an hate speech, ladies and gentlemen, if this isn't a humiliation of an interlocutor, then I don't know what that would be. But the complete silence of all those insolent fights for once cries out to heaven. And I firmly believe that this appropriate echo should be experienced, especially because, despite repeated calls from these statements, the Minister has never been very far away, and also their author, Dr. Kenda, has only later softened them so much that it does not apply to everything, but only to some. Even if only some, the statement is also inappropriate and offensive, especially if it is made by a representative of the current authorities. That's why [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you very much. And you're going to vote for it? Well, please, thank you. No, you didn't say. The explanation for the vote is mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u252	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I support the public debate in Parliament. This is proof that it is necessary for the debate to take place at this very moment in the voting itself, and even on the committee itself, the debate has lasted five hours and they have not yet reached the bottom. Here are some of them in the profession, some in the politics. Of course, the matter is always between expertise and politics. If I only mentioned an anecdotally, I had a fellow Ljubljanaan who studied medicine in Ljubljana, but then there was a directive that we went to the periphery in health homes, he said that if I had not been to Gabrovka and later to New Town, where a doctor is now recognised, he would only be in Ljubljana and would have thought that medicine was only in Ljubljana. Thus, people in the centres find it difficult to understand those in smaller places where they have the same needs, so it is true that some Members who support these hospitals in smaller towns and also maternity homes that are accessible to women in these places have proposed. It is difficult for me to decide whether maternity should be abolished, but it is certainly a matter of bringing the profession together, and so let the debate in the National Assembly bring this issue closer to us so that we can make a better decision when the Minister drafts the law on this cooperation, integration, possibly also the abolition of certain departments. I will therefore support this debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. This time in your name, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u254	Your Honor! I myself, the President of the National Assembly, will support this proposal. I will. Don't ask me in the end. Why? Because the Health Committee has pointed to several common elements. First of all, he showed that it was not true what the minister had repeatedly stressed that the profession was uniform and clear. The profession isn't uniform and it's not clear. The prominent experts from the larger centres, where the minister named them quite a bit in his professional time, are, of course, because from the centres, few to their mills advocated the merger and strengthening of these centres at the expense of rural maternity. On the contrary, respected doctors, such as Dr. Bertollet at Brežica Hospital, advocated the opposite. They highlighted the quality and advantages of small births, a more domestic approach, a kind of increased dedication to the patient and thus an important contribution to success, either treated or intervention. None of the expert analyses carried out by the minister or the professional council showed that smaller maternity facilities would be either safer or more dangerous than large ones. So there are no professional grounds and professional arguments to talk about professional reasons for termination. I therefore believe that such a public debate should also be subject to professionalism, face policy views and, last but not least, open economic issues. That's what the debate is about. Not to mention that the coalition members did not draw attention to the lack of analysis at the Health Committee's meeting, including the lack of adequate justification for such conclusions as the strategy had [[...]] [[Exclusion of microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support the debate not only because it has shown itself at the beginning that it is vital to preserve it, that it is vital for our Slovenian nation. I'll back her up for another reason. From this debate, I believe that the possibility of drafting and proposing a family code will come. Today I have heard you all Members of Parliament and Members of the Left and Right to admit that the family is a father, a mother and a child. On the left, especially those who would like to write something else in the family code, you admit that they give birth to mothers with the help of their fathers. And it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I think we need to start voting now. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development, Mr Duše Trbec Bučan, on the question of Mr Puksic's delegation concerning the information on the European funds signed contracts and the realisation of payments from the European and national budgets. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Embassy is given by Franz Puksič
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! My question was addressed to both Minister Križanič and Minister for Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Both because the Minister of Finance is responsible for payments and payments in and out of the State budget and the Minister of Regional Policy for the implementation of operational programmes. From the data we have, the data are official by the ministries of finance and for regional and local policy, it turns out that in 2010 only 52.22 % of the net position of the Republic of Slovenia's budget was realised. In view of the fact that I asked the President of the Government on 15 November a question on the realisation and use of European funds, the President of the Government then asked me here with the answer, if only he would read the answer they had prepared for him, which was perfectly logical to me. He read that changes in operational programmes would have positive effects. And he read something else that this is actually the only fresh money that the Republic of Slovenia has. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u259	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u260	Yes, there is. [[...]] Given that the implementation of the operational programmes after three years, i.e. from 2007 to 2013, after half, only 17%, 17% of the implementation of the certified claims for reimbursement from the European Commission, and given that, in response to a reply by the President of the Government on 25 November, a letter was sent to all ministers on 25 November, and the preparation of requests for reimbursement, several days later, on 24 November, by the then Minister Gerkesh and the Minister of Finance, a letter was sent to all ministers on the accelerated withdrawal of European funds and the preparation of requests for reimbursement, it was urgent to discuss the non-use of European funds in the National Assembly and to make certain proposals for decisions or to go into changes in operational programmes, and in those areas in which we had already pointed out in the Committee on Regional Policy, decisions that would also draw from the Brussels Treasury to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 23 votes against 39. Who's in? [[23 members.]] Who's against it? [[39 members.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Lojzet Posedel, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejan Židan and Minister for the Environment and Space of Dr. Rok Žarnic on the question of Mr Lojzet Posedel on the construction of agricultural land. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 30. Who's in? [[31 members.]] Who's against it? [[30 members.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In line with the proposal of Member Rudolph Petan, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobič and Minister of Health Dorian Marusic to Rudolph Petan's question on the construction of a new medical university in Maribor. Mr Rudolf Petan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We have long faced a lack of doctors in Slovenia. After a long delay we also decided to establish a medical faculty in Maribor, but this one has, you could say, temporary premises, and this limits them when entering. Given that it was already a year and a half ago the first call for the construction of a new medical university and it is not yet realized. This is a great damage, because, or mainly because of this, a week ago, the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor had a press conference at which he stated that this delay in the construction of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor for Slovenia was a huge and irreparable damage. So far we have lost at least 80 students in these delays, and this is a whole generation of new doctors who can register in Maribor. And then forwards, although there is a severe shortage of doctors in Slovenia and the interest in studying is greater each year, they can only register 86 new students, while when the new building is built between 130 and 140. The dean also stressed that the training of doctors in Slovenia is very high, supported by state-of-the-art technology and in line with European standards, which he cannot claim for studying doctors abroad from third countries. He further said that the standards of education followed by both medical faculties in Slovenia were so high that the doctors currently imported by Slovenia from third countries did not satisfy them. As he said, at the University of Maribor, more than EUR 2.3 million have been invested in technological aids recently, currently studying 567 students at the postgraduate level and 80 students at the postgraduate level. The project of building a new building of the Maribor Medical Faculty on land, not far from the Maribor University Clinical Centre, was confirmed by the State in November 2008, but was already complicated in the preparation of the documentation. An invitation to tender for the contractor of construction works was also issued last spring, and there is no end to the many complaints made by the tenderers. Thus, in Slovenia there is a learning base for education, but there is no room for it. Therefore, I believe that a broader debate is needed on this delay in the construction of the medical faculty in Maribor, in particular or especially in the light of the lack of doctors in Slovenia, which is so acute that they passed a law a month ago on imports of doctors from third countries, while our children cannot study medicine because there are no suitable conditions, according to the appropriate premises. And that is what should be urgent, and therefore I think it is essential that we discuss the whole issue. Thank you very much. I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[There were 39 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marušić to the question of Ivan Grill on the water network at the Oncological Institute and the non-renewal of bank guarantees. Mr Grill has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much. My question was about the problems at the Oncology Institute with regard to water installation and the non-money-freeness of bank guarantees. A few months ago, Minister Marusic said that he had ordered an expert study of the Institute of Construction, where they would study what and how the water network should be repaired at the Oncology Institute. The results of this research are horrifying if not frightening. Yesterday, he stated here that if the rehabilitation of this water network was to begin today, it would take two years to three years for this matter to be completed. A building permit will have to be obtained, a public procurement procedure will have to be initiated for a building that has barely been built. The next thing that arises is that it has been discovered that air conditioning is in the same bad condition, which means that it will also have to be fully repaired. The blame for all these irregularities is solely on the contractor of these works, that is to SCT. And in the previous mandate, the bank guarantee obtained over two million euros will now be in great danger of falling. Despite the fact that it was not expected to fall until 2013, there is a great danger that the bankruptcy of this company, which we see just before now, would put all the burden and all the costs of this recovery back on taxpayers or on the Oncology Institute itself. It would therefore make sense and, of course, it would also be necessary to hold a general debate on this important issue here and to determine how it is necessary to approach these bank guarantees so that they can still be cashed and how this recovery can be done. The Cancer Institute treats patients who have the most serious diseases, and they are now facing problems brought by the water network, which means that they are constantly threatened with Legionella, that they are also threatened with other infections caused by poor water and, of course, poor air conditioning. It is unacceptable that we can afford to have one such large company leaving us with such a legacy at the expense of taxpayers. And most importantly, it is the impression that the State or Government is deliberately delaying the cashing of bank guarantees to protect the interests of the SCT, because there must be some agreements in the background here, and everything is done to ensure that nothing is done, because bank guarantees could be fully cashed in in 2009 and recovery would begin in 2010 and could be completed in this year. The Group of Members will therefore also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jožef Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal and Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Jerovšek on the failure to exercise jurisdiction of the Slovenian state authorities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Polish SDS Group is given by Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you very much. My question was heard by Minister Kresalov and Minister Zalar. The question, however, was about extremely serious events at the Slovenian border when we witnessed that the Slovenian state authorities had waived jurisdiction over the eminent Slovenian territory. While our foreign ministry and our state authorities did not protest that the arbitration agreement was an eclectic breach, an extraordinary event took place in Hotiz a few days later, where our authorities left the jurisdiction of the Croatian state authorities, practically shooting from the home in the Slovenian territory. See, with the behaviour of the Slovenian authorities at this important time when an arbitration agreement was signed, under which, of course, Croats need and manufacture the frontiers on the Slovenian side, people rightly ask themselves whether the arbitration agreement also contains a secret annex, which provides that the Slovenian national authorities will allow the production of pre-trials for the Croatian side, for the purposes of the Croatian party, so that the Croatian side can justify the border across Slovenian territory. On this serious issue, with the irresponsible, unheard of behaviour of Slovenian state authorities, we have heard that such a task has come to Hotizo from Ljubljana, how the police and judicial authorities should behave, the concern of the Slovenians is even greater. It is the duty of all of us to conduct a thorough debate when we are witnessing the sale of the Slovenian national territory, when the last event in Hotiz constitutes an attack on the integrity of the national territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also a criminal offence, to prevent this stampede from continuing to create prejudices to the Croatian benefit of amputating the Slovenian national territory. Colleagues and fellow Members, let's do something for our country, for our future families, that the Slovenian border will be about as close as it was 25. 6. 1991. We know that the current government has already withdrawn from this border. But we have to fight for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia is mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I have to say that I do not agree with the debate, I will not support it, nor will the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u269	Comrade Saiowice, please, don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u270	Definitely. The decision that we are facing today is not related to an arbitration agreement, but rather to the decision of one former Prime Minister of the Government and one former Minister for Space and Environment, who allowed Croats to build embankments, bridges and more on Slovenian territory. The original sin in that area stems, ladies and gentlemen, from another period, from another time, a native from Hotiz, from the Murska Šuma, and where they know it well, and in this case no instructions were given from Ljubljana. The arbitration agreement has not yet been implemented in practice, and decisions from another time are making major problems for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Zares Group shall be given by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you, Mr. President. The Zares Group also opposes the proposal for this debate because we consider it extremely untasteful to abuse the pathetic question, a tragedy that has affected one family, in order to deal politically with an issue that has nothing to do with this event. And if he does, he has it because the previous government and the former foreign minister have agreed to this situation. At that time, it was agreed that such powers as they were, and this also resulted in these misunderstandings. But it is important in this matter that the situation of this tragedy be settled and that it be made possible for the family, that things be arranged in a pietically and without any speculation. Unfortunately, we have been witnessing too often and too often some kind of political necrophilia. And now I would like that in the National Assembly, we should not be so under-appreciative of the people and the victims of the tragedies in such a low way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the legal arrangements for the supervision of the work of judges and prosecutors. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I hope it's really possible for me to say this to the end. In fact, just before Mr Jerovšek spoke about the eminent Slovenian territory, I heard it there from some lady's shivering; he probably only knows the Ljubljana asphalt. However, Slovenia is not a Ljubljana asphalt. My question or initiative to the Minister of Justice yesterday was to answer the question of how to control within the courts or the judiciary. We have recently witnessed to Ptuj – the prosecutor, corruption. We are witnesses of Murski Soboti – prosecutor, corruption. We are witnesses to Celje – judge, corruption. Every day I get about 30 pages, 40 pages, some of them the President of the National Assembly gives me, where the cases are both different. I'm not saying there's anything in every case, but in all these cases, if there's two hundred cases, that's a big problem. Of course, this is why it is essential that every system, this applies to every system, an appropriate management that has four elements as a process: planning, organisation, management and control. After all, it is also in the National Assembly. Here too, the President of the National Assembly plans, then the services organize something with his conduct, then the National Assembly is run, as it is run, and we also exercise control. The president of the National Assembly sometimes takes our word, doesn't it, but there's a board president taking us to some secret room so people can't see us, and that's control. And that's how it's supposed to be in court. The courts should also be monitored. In fact, we have the so-called administrative supervision that the Minister has at his disposal, which is very poorly regulated, in my opinion, and does not allow sufficient interference with the judiciary. I am aware of the restriction in the Constitution, but regardless of the restrictions in the Constitution that the judicial branch of power is independent, I am convinced that the President of the Supreme Court must have sufficient authority to reach down to all judges. So that what happened in the Baričevič case - now we will have a famous first anniversary - where the minister's brother decides on a law that is not, applies a law that does not exist, all the lawyers say that it is a fertilized bull of the rule of law. The government decides to give the Minister of Transport an initiative for his supervision and the court says, "No." And the Supreme Court or the Council of Justice in the image of Mr Masles, the current President of the Supreme Court, said, "No." What lawyers call a law-abiding turd cannot be controlled. Therefore, my initiative is to give more authority to both the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court in order to be able to perform this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Mir Petk, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Petk's question on the supervision of judicial administration at the District Court in Ljubljana. Miro Petek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Polish SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I think it would be very useful for us to carry out this hearing in the National Assembly, which is why I call on my fellow Members and colleagues from the coalition to repeat their disobedience or, at the moment of repeated indiscretion, to support this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 37. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivac, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Mr Krivec on the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park. Daniel Krivec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Polish SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that you support this issue of mine and that we hold a debate on it, because most of you voted in favour of this law, most of you also made efforts through public debates and public debates to adopt this law. In the past year, we have adopted this law and, in accordance with this law, we should also adopt sub-legislative acts by 15 January, but nothing is happening in this area. Of course, there is a question of why this delay is, but given that most of us have adopted this law and that all of you have spoken in adopting this law about the fact that the previous law, which has had quite a few discussions in this National Assembly and many initiatives of civil initiatives, civil spheres, needed changes and compensation, and in this debate you have also used the view that the existing law is useless, you have convinced people that they have supported it, but now this law needs to be upgraded. We are now again, we can say, in some disgruntled way, because we have passed the law, there are certain obligations in the law that the Ministry and Government must accept to make this law operational, it was the wish of all of us in the National Assembly, but this law is once again a dead letter on paper. The previous law also had certain regulations that had not been implemented. The longer this law moves away, the worse it will be for its operationality. The new Council has not been set up, the management guidelines have not been adopted, which means that there will be no management plan again in accordance with the law we have adopted. This is quite a few formal things that we are not able to implement with regard to the implementation of the Triglav National Park itself. However, I believe, given that you yourself said that the government would soon start working, until recently it did not work that the minister probably had a problem with accepting the documents that the Government would have to confirm. However, given the fact that the Government will now begin to work, I expect, through discussion, that we will help the Minister to obtain these documents, that the Government will accept them and thus allow the institution of Triglav National Park to work normally, and not least that the promises we made to the people in these park municipalities are being applied to the local communities. Given that the promise of serious action will soon begin to take place, I have no doubt that you will be happy to support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 34. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we will consider finding the termination of the function of a member of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Member of the RTV Programme Board Slovenia Bine Matoh is 7. 12. 2010 informed the Commission of its decision to resign from the seat of member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council for personal reasons. The proposal for a decision was presented to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. The mandate-election commission submitted the following decision to the assembly: It shall be established that Binet Matohu has terminated his mandate as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed pursuant to the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act, as a result of his resignation. The term of office shall expire on the date of adoption of this Decision. I'm guessing the assembly took a look at the decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the decision to amend one of the investigative commissions. Do you agree that I call this committee of inquiry with a short name, or do you want me to read the full name? I can do it with a shorter name. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry dealing with Patrio. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the Notice of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, concerning a private action against the MP of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notification was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the assembly by means of a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, IK801163/2010 of 9. 12. 2001, on a personal action brought against the Member of the National Assembly, John Janša, for a criminal offence against him under the third, second and first paragraphs of Article 160 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly, Janez Janša, and allows the conduct of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's request for permission to order detention and to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Celje. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office forwarded the notice to the Council for its consideration. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the assembly with a proposal for a decision. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 114(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the Office of the High Prosecutor, the operating number Tpp/S/I/30/10 of 26. 1. In 2011, in order to decide on the authorisation to order detention and to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Celje Milk Škobernet for the offence of taking bribes under Article 261(1) and (2) of the Penal Code relating to Article 20 of the Penal Code, he shall not grant immunity to the judge of the District Court in Celje Milk Škobernet and shall allow the detention and commencement of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Article 214 relating to Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. Mr Jerovšek will make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u280	Mr President, given that you are responsible because you have caused a legal void, you have not convened an extraordinary meeting to prevent this legal void, and I would suggest that, in the event of this grave breach of the Rules of Procedure and the rest of Slovenia, you should symbolically exclude yourself from this point and not participate because you have been impartial in the matter which has brought the National Assembly into a shameful position. I therefore ask that you be excluded from this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u281	Dear colleague Jerovšek, I will not heed your well-respected procedural proposal. First of all, you're in serious trouble. There was no legal void, there was no legal void, and there will be no legal void. That's the first thing. In order to be symbolically eliminated, Mr Jerovšek, you probably don't even know what that would mean. So we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 68 votes against no one. Who's in? [[68 members.]] Who's against it? [[Nobody.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. The draft decision was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We now have before us a proposal to amend the Commission's composition for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, not only in the position of Vice-President, but also this Commission has somehow strengthened itself in the human resources sense, since the coalition has been strengthened by a decision it has voted on itself in this working body. The expectations of this change are also high in the opposition, because, above all, in the field of human rights and especially in the field of equal opportunities, we see that the positions of coalition and opposition members in this working body are diametrically opposed. There's a lot of talk about the rule of law, and there's a lot of talk about the legal path, but when we get to know each other when we get specific cases at the work desks and the National Assembly, we see that there are big differences in understanding these two concepts. On the one hand, in the coalition, there is an unknown tolerance for those who are, say, perpetrators of crimes and who, when some archival material is closed, are ensured that the official authorities of some countries do not use this data to prosecute. This is said to protect, on behalf of the same rights and the rule of law, those involved in the commission of crimes. On the other hand, we have cases where some, when trials and criminal proceedings are initiated against certain persons, where even some state authorities have participated in the construction of certain acts, such as the Vič-Holmec affair. Similarly, criminal proceedings shall be initiated against persons for whom neither the place nor the way or the person who is to participate in this offence can be determined. We note that those who participate in this committee on the side of the coalition and on the side of the opposition have very different vats, very different criteria for what the rule of law is and what human rights are and what are equal opportunities. For some, criminal proceedings shall be instituted without problem on the basis of premeditated acts, constructed acts, even those who have participated in the process of self-determination, and, on the other hand, the law shall protect those who have participated in or knew of the offences or have been guided by them during the period from the time of their adoption. With this change that has been made and will be made in this working body, we expect that the largest coalition party that has now received an additional member will also defend the positions that are also declared and that these views will also be advocated in practice. I would also like to point out that there has been a strange understanding in the National Assembly in another way of understanding the same possibilities. When Member Puksic stepped out of our Group, he carried with him all the mandates he had. He lost all the mandates in the working bodies he had, including in the Petitions Commission, when leaving the parliamentary group of the largest coalition party. And that the measure would be full, the coalition recently voted on this, not only that Magajna lost the mandate that remained with the SD, but was voted to give the Group another mandate in this working body. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have already tabled a request in October for a debate to be held on our issues, that our mandates in the working bodies should also be aligned with the largest parliamentary group, because we lack five seats in the working bodies. The leadership of the National Assembly is not in favour of this, but the largest coalition party is given additional mandates, despite the fact that their number of Members has decreased. Here, too, I must say that we are not in the same position and we do not have the same opportunity to work in the National Assembly. I hope that these imbalances will be resolved as soon as possible. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u283	Comrade Tank, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u284	and that change in this working body will also help to improve the understanding of the rule of law, including the attitude towards the rule of law and also the attitude towards equal opportunities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Marjan Križman of the Group of Social Democrats in the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities for Vice-President. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 64, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The draft decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Zares Group. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve President Franco Juri of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Zares Group of Members – a new policy, and for Vice-President Zalokar Orazem of the Zares Group – a new policy. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 30th A-point of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the assembly of Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the law on non-removal business, which is dealt with on a regular basis. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 90th meeting, on 21. 1. In 2011 it decided that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Act, which was submitted by the Government after the shortening of the procedure, should be examined on a regular basis. Within the time limit of business, the group of 38 Members and Members, with Dusan Kumro, requested, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly decide on that decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly. With regard to the decision of the College to review that proposal of the law on a regular basis, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant of the request to Yosk Godc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u286	Dear Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I'll be very brief. Given that the deadline for the submission of certain documents was twice, in December 2009 or October 2007, the Group of Members and Members proposed that the reason for the proposed procedures of a financial nature should be put at risk because the Republic of Slovenia is facing a penalty for the untimely implementation of two European directives by the European Union authorities and that this penalty is quite high, we have decided on this procedure and, as such, I propose that we adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-01-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Act shall be considered on a regular basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider a proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. There's no explanation for the voice. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 29. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the ordinary procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 24th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. I inform members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth that the Committee will continue its meeting in 10 minutes, which is at 19.10 in room 212. Thank you.
