ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Alexander Zorn, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Matjaž Zanoškar. Representatives of the Government are invited to all points. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 4 October 2011 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Offences in Second Treatment. With regard to this bill, the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank 6 is the Group of Members. Ten. 2011 has submitted an application for an extraordinary meeting. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 7 October 2011, I propose that the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly be extended by consideration of that proposal for a law. You have been informed of this proposal by letter dated 7. 20. 2011. Would like a representative of the bill's proposer, this is a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank? Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Just a brief introductory explanation. I believe that the fines for offences which have been imposed in this mandate and which are of a minor nature are extremely high. By means of this law, we propose that those offences that do not give rise to any immediate danger that do not endanger anyone in traffic, that fines for these offences be substantially reduced. We also propose that the possibility for those who are fines for misdemeanors is that they should also give only a reminder that they are not immediately penalised. It is a matter of minor speeds, in cases where they do not endanger anyone, where there are no, in fact, opposite players in traffic and so on. In short, we propose that Members confirm this proposal to deal with this law in a simplified manner, as this proposal would normalise matters with regard to the fines imposed. We also believe that these educational measures, preventive measures, would be better than just the measures that punish them. In this respect, the proposal is written and I think there should be no problem in that we should also decide to include the point and then to adopt the law further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Offences. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the proposal as item 4 of the agenda today after item 3 of the agenda. For consideration by the assembly, the Government submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for public rail infrastructure investments under the urgent procedure and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on banking, also following an urgent procedure. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly of 7 October 2011, it is proposed to extend the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly to deal with those proposals. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter of 7 June 2016. Ten. 2011. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together and vote separately on each proposal. He wants a word from a government representative as a proponent? [[He's not here.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Check-in, please. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support these two proposals to extend the agenda. Not only because the Government which is proposing these urgent procedures has not attended the meeting, although it is acting in accordance with limited powers, but also for substantive reasons. We believe that in the last meeting of the National Assembly, it is not possible to resolve these urgent matters in this way. In both cases, the Government has had several years in this mandate to regulate these matters in accordance with the rules and purposes and has not done so. Now we are witnessing some of the extraordinary events of law proposals following urgent procedures, when something should quickly be arranged, when there is no time to check things properly and so on. In short, we believe that this is a completely unreasonable action by the Government, which in fact also reflects the work of the coalition in this mandate, when they come in some confused way, in an unorganised way, an uncontrolled way on a table of proposals that are not actually coordinated anywhere, not with one partner or with other partners. By the way, there are also proposals within the government that are not harmonised within the government. And since not one of the departmental ministers has bothered to come here and explain the need for an emergency procedure or even to deal with it at an extraordinary meeting, unfortunately there is no need for us to simply confirm procedures like this and also to place Bianca on the agenda and decide on them. In short, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good afternoon to my friends and friends! Look, the first sentence should be how will the political option representing a certain part of the Slovenes and Slovenes in this National Assembly vote? Now explain to me how I can say how we will vote if the proposed law for an extraordinary session is not here. Once again, I ask you, correctly and specifically, the proposaler is not here. Does this institution of the National Assembly not as the first branch of the power of some levers to end it? This Parliament will be disbanded on the 20th, not today, 11. This Parliament is working, and the Government is also obliged to work, and it is obliged to come here and tell us what this is all about. I mean, it's a humiliation of this choir, and it's no wonder people say we're worth nothing. Yeah, of course we're worth nothing if the government itself shows how much we're worth. How am I supposed to say how I'm going to vote now? We all know that we were all full of mouths about how nothing happens in the railway area, nothing does that it is necessary to develop the railway because of Luke Koper, because of the development of Slovenia. Everybody. Left, right, whatever option we all said. Today we have one proposal for a marriage, but since there is no one to tell us in the five sentences, as a colleague had said a little earlier, he said in two sentences why he was proposing the law. And now you're asking us to make a decision. People are covering different areas, we are not all experts for everything, but I think we are so valuable – but whether it is broadcast or not, I don't care about this TV right now – that people should know that this is the government's attitude towards the National Assembly, but thank you very much. Thank you very much. I personally know that I will decide because I was also there when I supported the development of railways. But I don't know what it says in this law because I'm not on this committee, and I don't have anyone to tell me right now. And that's a shame. But if they asked me if it was a government assessment, I'd give them a slap and say no five times. Such an attitude towards us, ladies and gentlemen, to all of us, no matter what political colours we are, it is really ugly. Ugly. With us, everyone will make the decision as they see it, but this is a sharp and very serious criticism to the government. That he cannot send one undersecretary to explain in three sentences now, he is a disgrace to the National Assembly by the Government, and above all to this government. Now she's showing the right face.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that we are now considering an extension of the agenda, and I have further information that this meeting is open to the public throughout the discussion of the agenda. However, these security measures are being implemented because the Chamber was prepared for a meeting to be closed below. As representatives of the parliamentary groups no longer wish to speak, I conclude the debate. Mr. Weber, on behalf of the SD Group of Members? He's not doing it in his own name. They now only have the floor of the parliamentary groups because we are deciding to extend the agenda. Would you like to speak on behalf of the SD Group of Members? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Thank you. In view of the debates we have witnessed, however, I think it is possible to say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the law supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure should be adopted for a simple reason, as it is a matter of purpose. We have already adopted a law on this, in the sense that all the funds collected when registering vehicles are intended for the preparation of documentation and for the implementation of investments in public railway infrastructure. The problem with the implementation of this law is that registered vehicles are registered according to how the driving licence expires within a month. And because at this stage very many contracts with landowners have already been concluded, in particular on this main railway link, namely Divaca-Koper, the Ministry of Transport cannot conclude contracts until all the funds are up by the end of this year. So this is about the fact that the Ministry can sign already harmonised land purchase contracts earlier and help people who have decided to sell their land help the country, so that they can also do whatever it takes to produce project documentation, because the land is acquired and the investment can be acquired. In short, we allow this law to allow investments to be prepared for implementation in railway infrastructure, but some that are under way can continue, irrespective of the fact that registration of certain vehicles will only be paid in December. It is therefore a law that really contributes greatly to responding to the interests of all those who are willing to sell land, as well as to the interest of Slovenian railways and everyone here in Parliament, so that investments in this area can be driven as quickly as possible. I propose that this item be placed on the agenda and that we support this in the Group of Social Democrats, because we do not want the situation as it was at the beginning of this mandate when we did not have a single project to start investing in railways. This law will make this possible, and even if others come to power after these elections they will at least have a ready investment, so let us leave something good if we adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We are concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure under the urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present for 48 votes against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 5 of the agenda today after item 4 of the agenda has been closed. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act by emergency procedure. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 21. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the bill as the 6th item of the agenda tomorrow, Wednesday, 12 October 2011. A group of ten Members and Members with the first signed Bredo Pečan submitted to the Council for consideration a bill amending the Law on Medical Services following a reduced procedure. With regard to this bill, the group of 24 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Bredo Pecan, submitted an application for an extraordinary meeting of the assembly. I propose that the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly be extended by considering that proposal. The extension proposal was received by letter dated 10. Ten. 2011. Does the representative of the proposed bill want to say that this is a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Bredo Pečan? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I hereby conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement and move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Medical Services following a reduced procedure. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 7 of the agenda tomorrow, Wednesday, 12 October 2011. I would like to inform you that on 10 October 2011, the Group of 23 Members and Members of Parliament tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly for the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Law following a reduced procedure submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Luk Juri. On this request, I did not propose an extension of the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, since, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly should first finish its consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Law following a reduced procedure submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Tade Slapnik. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with the amendments adopted. We're voting on the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that confidentiality is also confirmed under agenda item 1 of the agenda, I propose that the first item of the agenda be opened to the public in all those parts where there is no need for data to be protected and labelled with an INTERNO level of confidentiality. In fact, the vast majority of the hearings, I think in just over 30, were conducted at public meetings. According to the data, only two hearings were held in closed rooms and it is in fact inappropriate to record the record of the findings of these public hearings by a degree of secrecy INTERNAL. I also find it somewhat inappropriate that all these facts, which were found in these public hearings, which the public had the opportunity to follow through on the third channel, should also be closed to the public because they are known facts which have been made public. Also, many of these public known facts, which were reported at the hearings, were later reported at press conferences by the President of the Commission of Inquiry. I also find it inappropriate that they are marked by the level of confidentiality of the INTERNET, logical conclusions of the members of the commission of inquiry – free of charge. It was said at a press conference and repeated several times by all members of the investigative commission, all the coalition groups of Members, that the report was based on 90% of the facts and 10% of the logical conclusions. And it seems very inappropriate to me that they are closed to the public and that we do not know what the logical conclusions of the President of the Commission of Inquiry are, or, say, Mr Levanič, Mr Slapnik, Mr Jerič and others. I do not know why the logical conclusions of Members in this inquiry committee would be marked by the level of confidentiality of the INTERNAL. I also find it somewhat inappropriate that there is a limited insight into this also to Members, in a special way, while those who have been questioned, say the Director of Post Slovenia, cannot even look at the record of what he said on the investigative committee, and this in the public work. Nor can he look at the conclusions that are a summary of this public work. The same goes for everyone else. Therefore, I propose that the decision on the confirmation of the agenda be suspended by the President of the Commission of Inquiry for so long as it considers whether the level of confidentiality is INTERNALly appropriate for this item of the agenda or not. What is a tax secret, personal information and so on, should be marked with a CONFIDENT and covert, but the rest is public. And I think it's right that it's public.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Mr Jože Tanko, I am acting in accordance with the rules and in accordance with the conduct laid down by the President of the Commission of Inquiry, which has marked its final report with the level of secrecy of the INTERNAL in accordance with the Secret Data Act. Of course, I have no authority to change anything in relation to this position. That report shall include, in addition to classified information, personal data, information designated as tax confidentiality, bank secrecy and business secrecy. The so-called damage assessment was signed by the President of the Commission of Inquiry, the evaluation is public and is available as an archive annex to the report and accessible in the main office where you can see it. The confidentiality markings signed by the President shall be subject to cancellation. And in relation to that, I can't do anything else. I also replied to your written proposal in correspondence, and I don't think I can do anything else here. Mr. Tanko, procedurally. I warn you, there is no debate on this. I explained that I was bound by the rules and procedures that had been carried out before.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You didn't exactly get my proposal. I have proposed the suspension of the meeting so that the President of the Commission of Inquiry decides to withdraw from the parts of the report marked INTERNAL on the basis of this proposal. I know that you, as president of the National Assembly, cannot do this. But given that the hearing was, for example, Drag Kos, Bečir Kečanovic, Aleš Hauc, Andre Lasbaher, Mojce Centa Debeljak, Andrej Plaussteiner and others in public, and the ability to monitor these hearings on TV SLO's 3rd programme, I find it pointless that all the statements made by these persons in the record of the investigation are in the findings of the commission of inquiry and probably in part in the conclusions marked by the level of confidentiality of the INTERNAL. We have no difficulty in keeping everything that falls under the code of confidentiality in accordance with the law on classified information or on the protection of personal data marked by the level of confidentiality of the Internet. The problem is that you marked those things that didn't bother them. And since this is so done, it is only a source of manipulation and abuse in interpreting the findings of this commission of inquiry. There's a lot of data coming into the public, there's a lot of networks going on, and there's a lot going on, and there's a lot going on. This has not been reported anywhere in the investigative commission, has not been presented, nor can it be verified what the investigative commission report says. The public is likely to expect this if the Youth series publishes these reports and the findings of the Commission of Inquiry. Then let's open it to the public. Since there's a lot of manipulation around here, who did something about this case, that would probably make sense, Mr. President. The consideration of those who led this commission of inquiry would be logical. I also stress this because the Commission of Inquiry should, on its own basis, investigate the irresponsibility or political responsibility of the holders of public functions, and this Commission has not done so. She hasn't heard from any of the public officials, not as a witness or as an investigator. It found no liability in the conclusions, no public function holder and so on. And now this quasi-report, which is based on what I don't know and who didn't find anything, mark with a degree of confidentiality, and write some conclusions that don't even summarize all the findings of the investigative commission. I think it would be right for what can be opened up to the public. After all, even the lecturers read it. Members of the National Assembly and people cannot do so at a public meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I insist on the argument I made and I'm tied to it. Mrs Melita Župevc also took the floor in order to explain. Mrs. Melita Župevc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now Mr Jožet Tank's call from the SDS is nothing more than a call for us to break the law. Mr. Jože Tanko can ask me to break the law a hundred times and I will not do it. It is also inappropriate for those who have not read the report to discuss 14 days. And it is inappropriate for those who have not read the reports to say what and what marking to withdraw from this report. Gentlemen, I suggest you, for your own credibility, go to the room first and read the report and then discuss it publicly. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President. The Commission, which I led, is not responsible for the withdrawal of marks, tax confidentiality, banking secrecy, business secrecy and so on. I have received the replies of some of the entities included in this report. I'll read the last one from today. Petrol states, for example, that it is not justified unilaterally, without the consent of the other party, to withdraw the confidentiality marks. Then the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering: "We are also of the opinion that, despite the fact that documents have a code of secrecy, the work of the parliamentary commission has not been disabled and Members have been able to familiarise themselves with it. The data obtained from the banks still bear the mark of bank secrecy, this secrecy cannot be withdrawn by the office." And so on. Mr. Tanko is talking about the magnetograms of the hearings. Dear Mr Tanko, all magnetograms are public today, published on the website, available to all Slovenian public. When you speak of the Director-General of the Tax Administration and Mr Plaussteiner, these two were heard in a partially closed session and this meeting cannot be made available to the public. So much for an explanation. All these performances by Mr Tank are pure manipulation. As I say, I advise you to read the report first and talk about the content, not the form.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, I think you've got the answer. Mr Tanko, you have the floor, but I have given my position and the President of the Commission of Inquiry on your procedural proposal. If there is any new element, fine, otherwise the positions are known. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you very much. You can see what masters you are. I have said that I do not propose and that we do not propose any withdrawal of confidentiality from those documents of the commission of inquiry which are by law or in accordance with the protection of personal data or other tax confidentiality laws or any other bank secrecy. I proposed withdrawing the mark INTERNO only from those parts of the report relating to public hearings of witnesses such as Bečir Kečanovic, Drago Kos, Barbara Smysl, Danica Ozvaldič, Andrej Lasbaher. It is also necessary to withdraw the degree of confidentiality from that part of the report relating to the findings of the hearing of those persons who have been heard publicly and do not contain such data, and from those parts of the report which are the product of the logical conclusion of the members of Zupevčeva, Levanič, Slapnik, Jerič and others who have participated. We do not require anything to withdraw the degree of confidentiality from what is not necessary, but from what has been considered publicly and which is the product of the logical conclusions of the commission of inquiry, read: insinuation. Just do it in this section and we have no problem handling the report. But not to argue that we demand the withdrawal of the degree of confidentiality from those parts that do not. Let them be marked by the degree of confidentiality of tax secrecy, bank secrecy, personal data and so on. However, the rest, which is not marked by this degree of confidentiality under no law and has also been carried out at public meetings, there is no need for it to be marked with an international level of confidentiality. Unless it is necessary to manipulate itself to deliver certain judgments for which there is no basis in the report and so on. These matters can only be dealt with in such a way that they are then manipulated by the conclusions that they are manipulated by statements. And once again, Mr President, I would like you to invite the President of the Commission of Inquiry to withdraw from all these parts, which are the fruit of public hearings, which do not contain classified information and which are the product of the logical conclusions of the members of the Commission of Inquiry, the level of confidentiality of the INTERNAL, while the rest should remain as envisaged for all other investigative commissions and also for other matters dealt with by the National Assembly, if so requested. Where there is no need, let it be public for us and for the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. But if I have correctly understood the President of the Commission, what has so far been public is also public. This means that the records and magnetograms of the meetings of the Commission of Inquiry, which do not bear the code of secrecy, are publicly published. [[advertising from the hall]] Can we conclude this debate for one simple reason? It was a procedural proposal, I gave my opinion, we gave the floor to the President of the Commission and we believe that we have responded from this point of view. From this point of view, we have responded. [[advertising from the hall]] Unfortunately, we cannot put to the vote the fact that we will put the National Assembly before the situation, that it will decide if we open up those data that are protected either by law or by the decision of the Commission. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Dear Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u19	But I would like to warn you further. If we repeat the same procedural proposals, I will not give the opportunity to repeat the same and the same procedural proposals. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u20	What you've warned us, thank you very much, we understand. If the procedural proposal that has been put to the vote, Mr President, is not put to the vote - but I think it would be good for it to be - I request, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, half an hour's pause. Not to consolidate ourselves, but to consolidate ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Mr Bogdan Barovic, we are voting on the agenda for the meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Branko Grimes, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Dear Mr. President. You are also responsible for the reputation of the National Assembly. Now I ask you to listen to me very carefully. All the hearings were public anyway. As regards the magnetograms, which are an integral part of the report, the President of the Commission has just said that they are public from now on, but we will discuss them in a closed part of the session. This, however, transforms Parliament into a pre-election theatre of absurdity and it is not in any way in favour of Parliament or the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation. That is why this proposal made by Mr Tanko is justified. Let all these parts, however, be removed and all that is public discussed in the open part of the meeting be discussed. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. We have heard the opinion and position of the President of the Commission of Inquiry. Mr. Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a procedural proposal. In view of the fact that this is primarily a violation of the public's ability to know what this is about, and to hide something that is not to be hidden, it is necessary to put it all together under the framework of secrecy, in the Slovenian National Party, in such ostriches and such political demeanors, we will not cooperate, and we predict obstruction at this point, and then consider as you will agree. For what is now happening is not worth any national assembly, but at least this national assembly. If you want to take the matter this way to cover up and work from nothing, then do it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 18. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. I am adjourning the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly for 30 minutes to prepare the services of the Assembly to begin the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which will take place without public presence. Members and Members of Parliament, please leave the Chamber and take into account the instructions you received on the return of the closed part of the sitting. We'll continue the session at 11:15. [[The meeting was suspended at 10.45 p.m. and resumed at 12.30 p.m.]] 1. Agenda item - Final report of the Commission of Inquiry on the findings and assessment of the actual state of issue and financing of free weeks "Slovakia Week" and "Expres" - (INTERNAL) /Part of the meeting closed to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Colleagues and colleagues! It's 12:30, we continue our 48th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Final Report of the Commission of Inquiry for the determination and assessment of the actual state of issue and funding of the free weeks "Slovenian Week" and "Express". We are moving on to a debate on the draft conclusions on this item of the agenda submitted to the assembly by the Commission of Inquiry. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is clear today that this was a low-level SDS electoral campaign largely financed by state-owned companies. Whose money? Yeah, with taxpayers' money. Contrary to the law or to its direct violation. Of course, the fact that the SDS was then the leading government party, the SDS president was also the Prime Minister of the Government, and his party received additional money from the state budget after the elections, according to taxpayers as a reward for the success of the elections. So much for morality and ethics, the rule of law and the care of taxpayers' money. It is therefore clear today that this was a negative electoral campaign, aimed at disqualifying political competitors, for an electoral campaign beyond and contrary to the legislation in force. With regard to Progresia and Zametek’s business, the parliamentary investigation found the suspicion of several offences, the deliberate destruction of business documents, tax evasion and more infringements of individual laws. The Slovenian weekly was published in 375 thousand copies and the Express in 340 thousand copies. And soon after the elections, they both stopped coming out, so it was pre-election political-propaganda pamphlets. I'm sorry, but you can't say otherwise. It follows from the data collected by the Commission of Inquiry that the issuer could not issue both free of charge from own resources or from operating assets and financed the free agent by means of companies owned directly or indirectly by the State. Although it's very difficult to name journalists, it was mostly signed by unknown authors with pseudonyms. In this way, the authors wanted to avoid ethical and legal responsibilities, while the affected and abused political opponents had no opportunity to defend themselves against the charges. It is more than obvious that both free-of-chargers were regulated and directed by others than those listed as editors. Both freemen were obviously financed mainly by loans. It is known that hundreds of thousands of euro loans came from funds and businesses associated with the Archbishop of Maribor. The logical rhetorical question is why the archdiocese, which has nothing to do with it, had an interest in participating in both freemen. For example, what were the advertisers in the Slovenian Week? National companies – Mobile, Telekom, Insurance, Nova KBM, Petrol and Post Office Slovenia. Interesting. The Political Parties Act in Article 25 prohibits companies in which a state or a self-government local community has more than 25 % of the share of capital and companies in which these companies have a majority share, to finance political parties or any of their activities. The Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns also provides for the same prohibition. As a result of the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, that this was a negative political campaign and that the Freeman was also taking place during the election campaign for members of the National Assembly, the provisions of the law ordering political parties to show in their campaign reports all the costs they had in connection with the electoral campaign were violated. In addition, the freeman was also a means of avoiding a legal provision in the electoral campaign limiting the amount of campaign costs to 0,40 euros per voter. Failure to comply with the legal restriction results in financial consequences, namely that the political party that has exceeded the appropriations is reduced in part by the cost of organising and financing the electoral campaign or by the political party even within one year the right to funds from the state budget paid to it under the law governing the financing of political parties. Therefore, it is undeniable that it was a pre-election political pamphlet, that the issuance of both pamphlets was financed mainly from state-owned funds and that they were financed indirectly also from taxpayers' money. Now you think whatever you want about morality, ethics, the rule of law, and your proverbial concern for taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you very much. He has the word Franco Juri, to prepare himself for the Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today is a day when many people are very embarrassed, and that is humanly understandable. I believe that there are quite a few honest and faithful people among the supporters, among the members and even among the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And today, when I read these documents, I believe they're genuinely embarrassed. Even I'm embarrassed for them today. It is now clear why Comrade Tanko has so insisted on the procedural requirement for the public of the document. What would that mean? This would, in fact, mean that black-coloured censors would cover up all the evidence so that they could appear to speak publicly, and in fact this would not be public, because the evidence that we now have here and which we can normally read would be presented in censored form. It's for the public to know. But the fact is that so many fingerprints, so many marmalade stains around these freemen, don't understand how they behaved so badly and how the then government and then government party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, awkwardly approached this project, created a clear network, a paramafia network of interests, where taxpayers' money flowed directly and indirectly to the Post of Slovenia and other companies that supported this project by advertising and thereby proved some loyalty to the then ruler. But the Slovenian Democratic Party has probably done all this in the belief that the final victory will be itss and that there will never be an investigative commission in the National Assembly, which will work on the basis of concrete evidence, specific figures of the Tax Administration and other supervisory institutions, concrete names which, look at it, are all linked to one party alone. All even, all the hunters lead to the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, no one can hide it anymore. I think that the Commission has offered an excellent basis for the continuation of procedures that must be followed in those bodies which are also competent to identify crimes. Also interesting is the chapter linking the story of the SDS of free-of-chargers to the Maribor archdiocese. Look, the Moroccan archdiocese caused the greatest financial scandal in the history of the Roman Catholic Church. The representative, who was questioned, himself admitted that this was a doomed project where they had only lost. Who? They? The Maribor bishops? No, we lost taxpayers, because the money that has been flowing from the New Ljubljana Bank to the business companies of the Maribor diocese and then indirectly to the freemen, stays in the hole, stays there and has to be paid. And who's gonna do that? The taxpayers will do that. That's good. I think that the added value of this report is not only in disclosing the real purpose and objectives of the freemen The Slovenian Week and Express, which, through a negative campaign, with disqualification, with personal insults, tried to win the then ruling party. It's not just that. The added value is in disclosing the networks that were created during that period and that are actually still active today, because if we can read anything to this government, it is that it did not effectively break with these paramafian hunters who are still active. I believe that this report is not only necessary, but it is a major step forward in the history of this Parliament, because we are slowly coming to the unloving truths that the SDS will find difficult to conceal. If I conclude my performance, I hope that this debate will follow on. Even the names of some of our fellow Members who advertised their electoral campaign in those freemen appear in the media, and they paid it from a personal account, which is also questionable in terms of legality, given the rules that exist on electoral campaigns. I'm talking about colleague Friday. If that is the case, of course, these things are extremely controversial and I hope that the public will see what happened at the time and what will happen on a square basis if these networks politically survive and regain control of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Pavel Gantar. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Your Honor! I'm going to continue right there, what my colleague was saying right now, when he said that it was very embarrassing for a lot of people today. I believe that a lot of people on the transition left are really awkward today. For the sad range of the transition left is shown by the fact that the story of two long-lost freemen is sold as the main development problem of the country of Slovenia. This is something that required action, the cancellation of already convened meetings, the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which is the biggest development problem of the state of Slovenia in their opinion. If that's what you think, I'm not surprised we're where we are. The problem with this story is, of course, you have no argument for this. You can charge me immediately if I say anything about the material that was closed to the public. It's a list of some materials, a list of names that should have been questioned, a list of names that have been questioned, and that's exactly what's up. People of God, the decision to appoint this commission of inquiry on free of charge and on its powers in each indent states: "recognizates the guilt of the holders of public functions, identifies the connection and responsibility of the holders of public functions, identifies the personal responsibility of the holders of public functions". In all its time, this commission has not heard from one single public official! This is said to be the whole story from the first second to the present, the very abuse of the Investigative Commission's Institute for Political Discretion. That, of course, there is only a fear of the truth in the background, it has proved to be a lot — you will all laugh together — at the comical end of her work when we wanted to do the key part, when the hearings of the officials that were scheduled were actually done, and you canceled them, and, of course, in producing the report, that is to say, in actual findings, participate. The moment you found out that we wanted it and that the elections were coming, you canceled the board's already convened sessions and wrote a final report without hearing one public official himself! And you are the Commission, where in each indent of its powers it states that it must determine responsibility, role and all other public officials, which, of course, is also the only one in accordance with the law governing this area. So what did this committee do? In fact, the tasks and work of this Commission are one and today this is happening as a tragic farce for a democratic state. It is a grave and borderless assault on media freedom and the constitutional right to information. Two media outlets, two poor freebies, they dared to look for a market niche! They were different from that tabulated majority, for which, exactly as you have just spoken, you could say that it is yours to speak to you in favor. That is exactly how we could say that this is, for example, Zares's Sunday, which compared me and in some cartoon used even a direct cartoon in the field of Nazism, not the last one spoken so much about, it's a story from a few years ago. And so on and so forth. In short, exactly the same methods, exactly the same means, but, hell, that's not what you're talking about. But if two of them were out of the crowd, they must be destroyed by all means and discredited, even if they had failed long ago because they could not survive in such a small space. And this is the story that is at the root of this problem. What is really the biggest democratic deficit and what we are really talking about today, although of course this is not in your conclusions, it should be, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a problem. What is the biggest democratic deficit in the country of Slovenia? In all democratic countries, the media ensures their high professionalism and also their own freedom, freedom of regulation, with their mutual control, that they always have a focus on each other, and if someone publishes something that is not true, publishes a half-truth, everyone else just competes to expose it, thereby taking credibility away from them, including readers, even money, if you want, and of course increase their credibility. It's the other way around. We have a media machine that works in tune. There's always taboo darkness. One that I've experienced on my own in the last few months is something I can say publicly. You know that in the spring this government and your coalition proposed in Parliament a criminal code that would allow people to be locked up for copying from the Internet for three years, which would especially affect young people or young people in their hearts. I raised the question, sent an open letter to the President of the Government, had two press conferences on behalf of the SDS. And once the minister was under pressure, after the public or the professional public had also awakened, he gave up and had already announced the amendment of this article and had formally confirmed it, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia announced. After that, days after that. And all the media have written down, those who didn't want to open these topics at all, even though they would have hurt almost every family, that on a proposal from the consumer union, the minister has now agreed to a change of law. And people imagine that they are objectively informed. Isn't that just tragic? That people live in a completely complex, virtual image that has nothing to do with the truth. And for that, of course, it is necessary to fight to prevent someone else, someone new, who wants to show another side of the medal. Of course, action gives birth to a reaction, and that is probably why every half of these media goes, if you want, across the border, which is common in democratic, much more balanced countries. But that doesn't excuse your actions in any way. You took advantage of the institution of parliamentary investigation and abused it to the point of no end. You haven't heard from any of the public officials. You wrote something on the system "what a grandmother had dreamed of," as they used to call it in the Balkans, and now you've closed it to the public, although there's nothing in it that would be worth mentioning, no smart document, nothing out of the blue, I've read it twice in detail, and of course you're waving to the public that it has a sense of how important it is. There you staged a show with a camera lock to make the video, in terms of: Uh, what an important development topic is being considered – freemen! And that's all. Even so, I felt that I wanted to get out in the middle, but I had to return the material first, even though it was lying here on the table and the gentleman took it at the door — I have not experienced it at any of the meetings so far. Because of that, of course, because you were so panicky that someone would spoil you. For when the truth of what you have put together on paper was revealed, all of you would say for ecological reasons, "Dear God, for it is a pity for these trees that you put such things on paper." And that's all you need to know about what you've done. But the truth is much more serious. This helps to preserve this democratic deficit so that the constitutional right is not fully met, so that any person can easily access any relevant information about any area of social life from different values. This means that your conduct is also deeply contrary to constitutional principles, democratic principles and, in fact, deeply anti-democratic. We live in a country where it has not yet happened that all the mainstream media will show parallel columns of achievements of the previous mandate and achievements of the previous mandate so that people can make a decision on this basis, and this would be necessary. These are the taboos of the topic that I am talking about, which are crucial for the development of the state of Slovenia, and because of the fact that this situation, which is a disgrace to a democratic state, which is not, in fact, democratic in nature, still remains. In these circumstances, I can, of course, make public all recognition to those journalists who, on this democratic deficit, warn on the table, all individuals who are seeking to actually enforce more plurality, more professionalism in the Slovenian media, while at the same time frankly saying that all people should be appalled by those who continue to establish this system of democratic deficit by attacking all journalists in person, the media that are different, all those who are trying to present this second side of the medal, because it creates a mechanism that actually poses a greater threat to democracy, as well as to professionalism and freedom of journalism than anything else, including ownership and other connections, except those which, of course, also allow this situation. All of this is clearly demonstrated in the work of your commission. You've exposed all of this to the tragic end of her work yourself. You specifically confirmed all this by closing the report to the public. There was a real travesty that I had pointed out before when we were taking the agenda. You said today that the President of the Commission himself said that all the magnetograms are now public, they're already on the Internet. All the hearings were public, we could all follow them, but we could talk about them in the closed session. If it's not an absurd theater, then I don't know what it is either. Something that was public, which is public, you talk about in the closed session, so that, of course, someone can go and interpret what he thinks. Then where does this lead us? There is only one case that has been discussed in public and is, of course, still covered in everything that is under discussion today. For example, a lot of readings were made on the Mail account, just because it had concluded a contract, the director himself at the hearing, which was public, said that they had given them even less favourable contracts than many others, so to speak, this is not basically true to what you are reading to me, but he has a comical work which is to smile at tears. You yourself said that the fact that this debt was not paid today indicates that the post office did not act on the principle of a good master because it was dealing with these. People of God, who else owes the Post Office 50,000 euros now? Yeah, SD party, exactly the one over there yelling about it. So what does that mean in practice? This means that we can also say that the post office did not follow the principle of a good master, because it was still a long one today or until yesterday, I don't know, somewhere on the Internet I read it days ago, and of course the client still hasn't returned it. This is said to be illegal financing for the political party and its electoral campaigns with taxpayers' money. That's exactly your logic. But in your case it does, but not in the case of the free people, because it was a private project, which was also financed mainly by the private sector. Do you know what absurdity you led the story to? That you have troubled the fact that someone as a private company ordered money from another private company and at the same time measured the SDS as if they had what they had, but not each other were not members of the SDS, let alone an SDS official or anyone by the SDS involved in these transactions or alongside as the founder of the media itself. This is said to be obvious not only entanglement, but also slander, which, in my opinion, also has some elements of the crime. But you will experience everything about this country, including the fact that the prosecution rejects something that you have been told informally in the European Court of Justice that you will surely get when someone like your family compares you to the Nazis, and in Slovenia they reject it and they say, chase them yourself if you want them. And of course, as long as we have such an inactive legal state, which is also preserved in some way because of such a situation in the media field, because of course it covers all the benefits of life, including all branches of government, it is a very, very big problem. Let me just say it one more time. It is sad that, at a time when Slovenia should face the development concepts responsibly, it is difficult to elaborate on them, to show the achievements of one and another in the previous and previous mandates and to have the achievements to speak, to make a decision on this basis to move forward, to talk about the two poor bats who have dared to be different and who have long since ceased to come out. Of course, there's only one thing obvious. It is not a case that this is happening now, not only because they are elections, but primarily to give a very clear signal to anyone on such a limited market and because of this difficult market, which is relatively small, such as Slovenia, to set up a new, democratic, plural, professional medium. This story is for his lesson, and this debate is for his lesson. Don't you dare reveal what we have as a taboo theme, because in this case you will be discredited, we will persecute you, even if this is why we abuse the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Commission, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the meeting of the National Assembly, all the media outlets we have, but we will discredit you until the end. You did this today, and that was in fact a fundamental goal. I think that this fundamental objective of your doing should also be presented in some way to the institutions of the European Union, because you will not find this pair in the European Union. That it is a grave attack on media freedom through the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation and through the abuse of the meeting of the National Assembly. This commission has not even begun its work, has not heard from any public official, but speaks of responsibility. If we were to talk about the responsibility of anyone, we should take one decision today in order to determine the responsibility of the President of the Commission and of all members and members of the Commission for such a way of doing her work and, above all, for such a shameful conclusion of her work as a youth in the freedom of the press in Slovenia and, of course, a stain on Parliament and the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Ms Melita Župevc asked for the floor on behalf of the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My comment on the implementation would be: Obedience is a policy that cannot overcome the point of rebellion and the goal of power. It's a poor policy. The Commission of Inquiry led by me has carried out its work in a responsible and responsible manner and has assumed its responsibility in this national assembly and in the public. She did it according to the letter of the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But I would like to respond very briefly to some of the theses that have been put up. No one says that freemen are the main problem in this country, but the SDS has been citing press conferences for 14 days, Mr Jože Tanko spends half a day writing letters to Meliti Župevc and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. This commission of inquiry has worked well for a year and has brought its work to an end. Your colleagues have had four investigative committees for three years, since the beginning of their term of office. What do these investigative commissions do, except that when I turn on television tonight, I see the documents of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which I know are also in this National Assembly, but not in my closet, but in what other? We have done our work responsibly and, as we say, we have done our work as soon as possible. That's what I predicted when I said I'd take charge of this investigation committee only if we did our job to the end. And we did. Your colleagues still haven't. And since the words will write right now, I doubt they will. What are your colleagues doing? For three years, the Commissions of Inquiry have been leading the National Assembly and you report to this Commission of Inquiry that it has misused its powers, its powers. Please! First look in the mirror and then criticize. Gentlemen, first sweep before your threshold. This would be politically correct and politically upright. Second thing, regarding the participation of SDS in this commission of inquiry. At the outset, the SDS stated that it would participate in this investigation committee on one condition. It is that the investigative commission subject of its investigation extends also to freeman Good morning. We explained that in Slovenia there are about 200 free people registered in the register, then we can investigate many others. We could also look into some pre-election internet address, which is once again close to the Slovenian Democratic Party, and it came back before the current elections, but we did not do so. Why weren't we investigating other freebies? For two reasons: because there was no need for this because others did not violate the laws and rules applicable to some in this country and because if they had extended the investigation to other freemen, they would not have come anywhere. We had the subject matter written, we were focused, and we knew what we were doing. Unlike some other investigative commission that wrote in 50 things that she will investigate, the entire mandate deals with only one thing and one person. So let's be correct. As far as public officials and public officials are concerned, I will read the conclusion of another commission of inquiry, under this report signed by President Zvona Černač, and found that "the political responsibility of individual political function holders in relation to the subject matter of the investigation was great, but it has never been established since they had previously resigned or were replaced and no longer occupied by more important political functions." This was a finding concerning public function holders. I would like to remind you that we have our decision-making decisions before us at the meeting of the National Assembly. The first decision states: The National Assembly shall adopt the conclusions and conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry for the determination and assessment of the actual state of issue and financing of the Slovenian Week and Express free of charge. And the findings of this commission of inquiry are unequivocal. No doubt about it. And if they are accepted or confirmed by the National Assembly, they will also confirm the findings of the commission of inquiry, which are indisputable. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Tanko, if you read the report, you'd know. But unfortunately, you didn't get to read the report. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Mr. Tanko, please don't disturb the debate. You have no right. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Tanko, no! Melita Zupevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Yes, we do not have this habit of watching on television at night what is in the secret documents of the National Assembly. One more thing I would like to stress is how much talk is about the alleged defamation of those who have set up this commission of inquiry and adopted the report. Let's see some old Slovenian Week and Express numbers. In these two newspapers were signed by Vidi Vidi, people who do not exist and for these Vidi Vidi were persons with names and surnames. And those who were really publicly slandered did not have the opportunity to publish a correction or to achieve their right in court. Why? Because they didn't know who the actual writers were. Their rights have never been satisfied. Never. I hope it will now be with this report, because this report has clearly identified who the writers were. However, I believe that those who did so were free of charge, including those with a name and surname. And finally, when it comes to talking about two "poor" freebies. It just so happens these two "poor" freebies had a total load of 700,000 copies. 700,000 copies, however, are the number, as many as are usually intended for pre-election flyers, when sent to all homes and people are invited to the elections. So for the poor 700,000 copies – assess whether this is really a poor number.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Thank you very much. First, Mr Jože Tanko asked for a procedural debate. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, Mrs. Župevc said that I have been citing press conferences on this subject for 14 days. I didn't call either of them about the freebies. No press conference has been convened by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on this subject. It's verifiable and it's an eccentric lie. And the other thing. When you refer to conclusions and conclusions like that. Unfortunately, you didn't make a public statement. You have only reached conclusions in public, and the conclusions, Madam President, which you refer to in your deliberations, are not public. And in my discussion in the introduction to this point, I have proposed that all those things that are not problematic, which do not concern the confidentiality of the data, not tax, not bank, not personal data, be opened to the public because they have been dealt with in public meetings. And you didn't want to do that. And please do not refer to the findings, because these findings are not public. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Mr. Tanko, do you have any suggestions, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Then tell him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u41	If the President of the Commission of Inquiry and the other members of this Commission of Inquiry wish to refer to the findings, please withdraw the level of confidentiality from them. That would be the right thing to do, but don't do that. And once again, open all parts of the report, all parts of the report for which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Mr. Tanko [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Cannot initialise [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u44	You know well that at your request it was decided at the beginning of the session. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u45	I understand! I understand, but I don't know why then the president of the commission of inquiry, who marked the findings with a degree of confidentiality, refers to the findings. Let's open them up for the public, and then we'll talk like we're talking about conclusions that are, by the way, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u47	I don't know what kind. [[...]] None at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u48	A replica? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Dear Mrs Župevc, if you are already trying to deny something from my statements, then at least don't put yourself so clearly on a lie. Look what you said, "We've done our job." You said that four times, but your own actions put you on the line. For you have already had three convened sessions of the commission with additional hearings, but with additional performances in your jurisdiction you have withdrawn and gone. So you were aware that you hadn't finished your work yet, but then there were elections and you had to prevent me from coming along to have an insight into what was really going on. That is to say, you have not finished your work, and by your conduct you have proved this best by cancelling your already convened sessions. And also what you cited as a counter-argument to my allegations and also misquote me, if you haven't heard from any of the officials and that's how others do it. First, if someone hits someone, it doesn't mean that everyone else can drive around, even if someone makes a mistake, it's not right. However, in your case, this defense is ridiculous at all, because you had some of the hearings of some SDS Members, who are current holders of public functions, and you did not hear them either. This is also said to be here on your side not only an obvious non-truth, but a great misdirection and concealment of the essence, which is one thing only, namely that all the work of your commission and yours personally from the first to the last day of one attack on media freedom and on the constitutional right to information. And with that, if you want, democracy in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Thank you very much. He finally has the word, Mr. Tadej Slapnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Tanko, I will allow you to discuss the Commission's findings and I will present what this Commission has found. "That the Slovenian weekly and Express were a tool of political marketing. This is justified by the fact that their issuers acted contrary to all the rules of the Free Business Model." Next. "The Commission of Inquiry also found that companies owned directly or indirectly by the majority of the state, which are directly and indirectly, through Media Polis d.o.o., advertised in the Slovenian Week and distributed free of charge and thus made it possible to issue the Slovenian Week. On the basis of the evidence gathered, the Commission of Inquiry notes that those companies did not have economic interests in their decision to participate in the project." I see the embarrassment, Mr Tanko, as before in the closed part of the session when we had evidence on the tables. None of the Members, including Mr Grimes, dared to argue and contradict the evidence that was irrefutable. Now in the open part, when it can be argued that the Slovenian public cannot see these documents, it is wide-ranging. Next. "The Commission found that, on the basis of the evidence collected, it determined the reasonableness of the suspicion that Posta Slovenije d.o.o. in the case of the distribution of the Slovenian Week and Express, she did not deal with the full care of the good master. It also noted that the advertising of companies in direct and indirect majority state ownership in the Slovenian Week was a way of providing funds for the issuance of free-of-charge or political-market tools to carry out a negative political campaign. Finally, it found that individuals, members of the SDS, then holders of public functions and other persons who directly and indirectly cooperated with this political party were free of charge in the project. The SDS also advertised during the election campaign in the Slovenian Week." The innocent freebies and their dispatch, Mr Grims, cost EUR 2 and a half million, which were spent on issuing and sending. Before the electoral campaign and during the electoral campaign. The costs of issuing these two weeks shall be four times, more than four times, of the total appropriations that a single party may spend on the elections. In the case of SDS, you spent 640 000 euros in the 2008 electoral campaign. In this project, the issue of freebies is additionally more than four times that. If we recalculate, each of the 28 elected Members and Members of the SDS provided an additional €89 000 285 that you have spent on their promotion and defamation of your opponents more than eight months before the official start of the electoral campaign. 89 000 euros is about 10 minimum gross wages that you illegally spent for three years receiving a Member's salary in the National Assembly. And it's not just an illegal act, it's a subversive act. This is a fundamental act, it is an electoral fraud, and it is each member and member of the SDS Group that is guilty and guilty of receiving and taking over. Explain to your citizens and citizens today, if you can, where you have obtained these funds, which you have illegally spent on your self-promotion and discreditation of others. And admit that all the mandate of the Member and Members of the SDS is based on the unprecedented electoral and pre-election fraud that you have carried out with the project of issuing freemen The Slovenian Week and Express. Today, we know and it is true that Slovenia also learns that the mandates of Members and Members of the SDS are Members and Members of the SDS, I will list them as follows: Vinka Gorenaka, Jožeta Tanka, Janez Janša, Branka Grims, Rudolf Petan, Zvonka Černač, Eve Irgl, Alenke Jeraj, Andrej Visjak, Jožef Jerovska, Marijan Pojbič, Marjan Bezjak, Francka Tsukati, Ivan Grilla, Daniel Krivec, Zvonka Laha, Council of Likarja, Branka Marinič, Darka Meniha, Mira Petka, Iztok Podkrižnika, Štefan Tisla, Petra Verlic, Milenko Ziherla, Aleksandra Zorn, Robert Hroat and Milan Čadeža, all your mandates based on the pre-election fraud, at the release of the Slovenian weekly and Express. And it is right that Slovenian citizens and citizens know this today and that they also remember this on December 4th in the elections. Let the citizens know that at the 2008 elections, you already had the greatest pre-election fraud in the twenty-year history of Slovenian democracy, which has no comparison even around the world. Explain to the citizens and citizens today why you cheated in the election campaign when, in agreement with the company that issued the Slovenian Week, you advertised in it free of charge and in three Slovenian Week numbers. Instead of paying an account of around €23,000, you received a credit in this amount two months after the elections by Progresia, normally, in which you were informed by friends that you did not have to pay the bill. Citizens and citizens must pay all the bills they receive, without exception. You obviously didn't have to do that. This is a simple scam with which each of the elected SDS Members has been given an additional illegal promotion in a campaign worth an additional EUR 821 per Member. And these are the facts that you have to answer politically all the Members elected on the SDS list in 2008, because you agreed with this kind of pre-election fraud at the time, even more so, you used it personally. However, all then public function holders with Janez Janša at the helm must also answer, since he was then the president of the government and the president of the SDS party. To answer to the competent authorities as well. I personally believe that the work of the investigative commission, which has been professionally led by the mag, will be the work of the investigative commission. Melita Zupevc, has made a significant contribution to this. But if that is not the case and you will not be responsible for illegality in court, Slovenian democracy is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u53	My procedural proposal, Mr President, is to inform the competent authorities and act in accordance with the legislation, because the numbers that the honourable colleague has read at the outset are an integral part of that part of your report, which is closed to the public, which is marked by a degree of secrecy. You yourself have led to such absurdity by your insistence on closing this report before the public. By reading these things and then, of course, very comically interpreting them – I don't know if you want a personal complaint, you're already going so bad that you want to make a sacrifice or why you did it, I personally get this regime – but the key thing is that you now quoted things from the closed part of your own report, which you marked with a degree of secrecy, and so you were in direct violation of the law because you did it in the open part of the session and please, Mr President, that you are doing the right thing in accordance with the legislation. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Please keep an eye on what you are doing and what you are not doing in the debates. There is only one thing, Mr Grims, which would be exclusively tied to a closed session, I did not notice in Mr Slapnik's debate. Wait a minute, let me finish. What I think about such debates is another thing. In these discussions, there have been arguments which, as far as I am concerned, need to be proved and can be proved in some process or not. But to say that the facts cited were closed and unpublishable, I didn't notice that. You asked again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u55	With all due respect, Mr Potč, but before that, it was also suggested that I did not discuss in the closed part of the session. Because in this tragedy, which is a true parody of parliamentaryism, I did not want to participate because it is an abuse of the Institute and also an abuse of the legislation to hide those things that should be public under the mark of the INTERNAL or the code of confidentiality, and this prevents a public debate on these data. At the beginning of its debate, please look at the magnetogram, the distinguished speaker read some of the figures that are exactly that part of their report, which is closed to the public. With this, there is no need to talk about the debate that was before, but we are talking about the report, and of course it has directly violated the legislation governing this area, and therefore please and in accordance with the law, you know that you are obliged to inform the competent authorities and to act accordingly. But be aware of everyone in the now former coalition that by your insistence on closing the data and this report you yourself have caused an absurd situation and have sat on the mine that you have set yourself this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Once again, the meeting is open to the public, the material has been closed to the public. Take this into account in the debate and do not talk about the things that are in the work that is closed to the public. There's nothing else I can say. What would you like? [[advertising from the hall]] To act? What am I supposed to do? [[adverts from benches]] Listen, there's no action to be taken at this meeting right now. If, as Mr Grims thought, it would be necessary later to give some authorities the justification of the debate or not, this will be done, but now there is nothing that can be done and you know it. Mr. Slapnik asked for a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Procedurally. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask and propose a procedural proposal that, in the future for such interventions, Mr Grimes is no longer allowed to hold any further debates, because I think they are being used entirely, virtually in the form of some replicas, and I would like to reiterate that everything I have stated is known to the public. I didn't exactly publish anything in any of the closed works. It is interesting, however, that Members of the SDS are now speaking about these publicly-known facts and are complaining when I put these publicly-known facts through calculations, and suddenly seeing, I don't know, horror now. Mr. Tanko, when there are arguments on the table, it's probably terrible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Mr. Slapnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u59	So I would suggest, Mr Vice President, that you lead in accordance with this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you very much. You know, before I hear what anyone's saying, I can't take it or give it a word. But once he speaks, he says the sentence to the end. Please, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare for Franz Bogovich. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. If I were to ask myself, I would not like to discuss this subject either, but we have rules of procedure, we have set up a commission, and we have some conclusions to come to. I think this commission has done its job properly and well. But I have to say, she had a relatively easy job. However, work could be done because in such a clear violation of electoral legislation as the SDS went in 2008, I think that any child in kindergarten could find that it was an exercise of his or her power. The purpose of the release of freemen Express and the Slovenian weekly was to promote the SDS party, in which I finally see nothing bad, but it pains me when you can't tell what good you did, but you mutilate the opponents, and in these newspapers it was precisely this because the opposite side was dealing with the opposition then and mutilated it all on average. I personally have to say that I know Robert Tersk, who owned Zame-tek. I know him as a classmate because we spent eight years together in primary school, and I have to say he never seemed to me to be some kind of journalist, to be involved in a school paper, to write in a school paper, to be involved in journalism. On the contrary, he was a very good athlete and I am sorry that I did not manage to ask him in three years, who set him up, that he was going into this crazy game, and for him probably a tragedy of life, because in the end, only one Robert Teršek would probably get hurt by the greed of the SDS. And I'm really sorry about Robbie Terska, because I think he's an intellectual, a smart guy, but I don't know what led him to this stupid game when he went to borrow as much as 300,000 euros that was lent to him by some Raščan, "kobajagi" because they're friends. I don't know if 300,000 euros are just being borrowed without asking him why he's going to need them. Interestingly, this Mr Raščan, after three years, cannot pay social contributions and wages to journalists and his co-workers, and he had enough money four years ago to just borrow 300,000 euros. It is very interesting, and I hope, that we will not deal with this problem for long, but that institutions will deal with this problem. Robi Teršek founded the company Zame-tek a hundred meters from my house, and I have never seen one printing machine in my life, I have not seen one journalist walk across Radeče, except when they came to a celebration, so it really got me a little confused. However, I wanted to have a successful press house in Radeče, but unfortunately it failed after two months. It was therefore clear to every citizen and citizen that this was a pre-election action by the Slovenian Democratic Party. You helped New Slovenia a little bit, so much so that you threw it out of Parliament, but thank God you did not harm the People's Parties, which you also attacked, the then President of Mr Shrote, that you kept it in Parliament. I think it is more than obvious that it was an abuse of electoral law and that, given the work of the commission of inquiry for today's debate, some institutions will nevertheless act and punish those who have violated it. Bell 1 also borrowed a lot of money from this company at the time. Interestingly, three years later, this company also collapsed and raised money for poor people who invested in their certificates. It's really interesting. That it was the propaganda of the SDS, but I must say that it was me too, I will say thank God, published in this newspaper as one of the worst mayors who irritates the children who are working poorly and Mr Janković is his model. Although I also gave the demanta because first of all Janković is not a model to me, I respect him, we did not irritate kindergartens in Radče, but interestingly, after 14 days when this was written in the newspaper, a friend came to my house and brought me a paper where he wrote or coordinated between Progression and the local congregation organization SDS how to pay me. First they write in Progress what needs to be written, then the one in Progress writes that the matter is too easy, that a little reinforcement is needed, and so the article was created. It's the SDS president in Radeča because she always had a lot of paper in her purse, but it fell in front of a block on the ground, and a Radečan brought it to me. So I actually saw that this isn't about plural newspapers, but it's about the election propaganda of the SDS. It's okay, I say, it's okay if it's election legislation. This electoral legislation thus does not allow and I hope that the authorities will also take this into account and punish some. Otherwise, it's a pasta story if you ask me. You also lost the elections at that time in all these financial frauds. I am sorry that we are not talking today, and here I agree with Mr Branko that today we should talk about how to solve problems. But it is nice that sometimes even some accounts are paid to see who is guilty and to see how he will continue to react. Whatever you say, it was obvious that this was your project, but thank God it didn't work. I hope that you will not succeed to that extent on December 4th. As far as I'm concerned, the case is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich. [[No, no, ……]] Franci Kek, here you go. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Printed media are one payable and one is free. The payers are financed by buying them and the freebies are probably out of ads, and they're not supposed to have any other income. Each free owner shall set up the owner with the aim of earning something as well. However, if there are no ads inside, it is necessary to ask why it was established. At the Slovenian Week and Express we can see that one almost had no advertisements, and the other, mostly, had ads from companies owned by the state. And also those ads that were in the Slovenian SDS week, we heard that after the elections the SDS party received a credit note that it was not necessary to pay the bill because the ads were wrongly placed. The content of these freemen may, in principle, be acceptable, whatever the case, but the problem was that the electoral legislation was violated with these free of charge, that it was a covert advertising by the political party SDS, which was running for office, and that the content was such that the authors were afraid to sign under these articles – journalists and reporters of Democracy preferred to hide under pseudonyms. It was financed in a variety of ways. People borrowed money without knowing why, so they testified to the commission of inquiry. Most of them didn't even get it back. A couple hundred thousand euros was lent to the gym teacher. Finally, when the elections were over, but there was no longer any need for these two free-for-alls to exist, it was necessary to clean up after each other. And then Andrej Lasbaher, owner of Progresia, who published the Slovenian Week, had to put the matter somewhere. Andrej Lasbaher is the former director of Nova Horizon, the current co-owner of this company is SDS, which issues the weekly Democracy. Lasbaher also founded and led the 25th Agency, which organized the election campaign for Gregor Pivc, the mayoral candidate in Maribor, who ran with the support of SDS. And this Lasbaher guy got his way. One afternoon someone met in the park of a boy, gentlemen, a man. He was mostly homeless, today safe before winter, and in Kopa they also have prisons where he currently resides. This boy, the gentlemen have been addressed in a very interesting way. This was Milan Simic, who told the investigative committee how this was happening. Milan Simić confessed: "The Lord found me in the park, picked me up and said if I wanted to make 500 euros. I said, "Yes, of course. Why is that? He says I'd open up a company to be the CEO of the company, that I'd have my own company, that it's all clean, that I don't have any debts, that it's all clean, legal. I said, "Okay, no problem. So I went. And we went to the notary." There they gave him some papers to sign, there was also Andrej Lasbaher and they signed it. The state's attorney for once against the various others who led all these transactions and did not act, and only this gentleman, who is already in Cyprus, at home, had some problems. I am sure that in time we will come to the conclusion that, just as Mr Branko Grims had just a while ago, although he claimed for months and months who had written the RTV Act would finally say that he had written it himself. As Janša argued for years and years that cash had never been used in the arms trade, he eventually admitted that it was. Thus, Mr Cernač will finally admit that the SDS only had something to do with it, although when we were once on TV Slovenia 3, he said that the SDS had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you very much. He has the word Franci Kek, to prepare Miro Petek. I'm sorry. Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you. He's already told Franci what he's done. I must admit that I have not read the report, but the media has informed me that my name appears in this report. True, I and Progressa agreed to print me an eight-page newspaper called Friday, it came out on Friday, one week before the elections, and so I paid around 200, 000, 300 euros out of my pocket, I don't know exactly because it was three years ago. You'll know better because you've reviewed all my accounts, and you've seen that there was no money from Patrie and that I regularly settle all the bills. I'm glad you could see that and get to know it. On the edge of this newspaper was also written by Miro Petek, not SDS. Miro Friday. Mira Friday paid for it out of his own pocket. This same newspaper was immediately on the Internet in PDF form. My mistake and my sin is that I paid out of my own pocket, that's past an open electoral account. Exactly. It's my sin, my mistake, which, I think, is smaller than or equal to those you have on mainstream media all the time with free advertising. When I wrote this annex, that was, of course, before the elections, Irma Pavlinič Krebs of Zares, who ran in Koroška, had a beautiful pre-election show in which Marta Kos and Borut Mekin performed, which analysed the pre-election time in Koroška and, of course, came to the conclusion that Mira Friday would not win these elections. That's not a problem. The problem is that this CD, this broadcast went through all the cable systems, and the problem is that it wasn't paid. So this amount went through the electoral account, just like mine. So, hand to heart, toss the first stone that is without sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc, to prepare Dušan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Good-bye. Admit it, the commission did a great job. [[advertising from the hall]] No, without an order, because we're not under dictatorship like some others. Excellent, because she has done a very large job in one part, because it will not even work for the five other commissions whose presidents are drawing large-scale taxpayers' money and reports now, of course, will not be able to do so at the end of this mandate. Congratulations to this committee, too, because it has carried out a series of hearings in a very professional way and I should not be resented by some who have turned out to be real butlers. I would like to have a friend who lends you 300,000 euros, even though he doesn't know what you're going to do with it and how you're going to get it back, and he doesn't have to pay it back, and then in the end, a lot of people admit it, or, if they come back, they'll just come back, it doesn't matter. More and more Members are here, well, not always, but some who can easily borrow 300 and so many euros, and obviously also the SDS party, or those who ordered the printing of these freebies. In a few days of pre-election, 722 thousand copies of these freemen were printed, according to each voter about 10 different editions, and not to say that this is not a decisive pre-election action. It was therefore exclusively possible to malign, insult, spread non-truths about individuals, including about the parties, except for one party which was obviously the contracting party of these free-of-charges, namely the SDS. Today, one of the SDS representatives says that it is a poor couple of freebies, that it is an attack on the media and so on. Hell, you're really not gonna learn anything and stop thinking like that? You will not admit that you have abused legislation, which is strictly necessary for this purpose, so that even during these pre-election periods something like this could not have happened. But these freebies of yours have been funded by state-owned companies, it's the taxpayer's money, and that's the problem. If it went out of your pocket, like colleague Friday has now mentioned his story, then it's something else. Obviously, the results and conclusions of this commission of inquiry also teach you nothing and, of course, support this claim with the SDS issue. How do you think your two online freebies, if I call them, will end the day after the elections or who pays them, how does this circle go and how tax money flows back into these internet trumpets? That's what I'd like to ask. Today, what some in the debate here are very vehement and loud, but I know that this material has been read in a quiet room I think only two SDS Members can speak only of a flat-rate assessment, not of content. I will, of course, accept these conclusions and, once again, my congratulations to the Commission, I would also like to see work done in the future commission, which will ever be appointed, in a short and fast time and very professional way, as this Commission has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Dear colleague of the SDs, if you are already using my term, "poor freebies", then you should also take into account the context in which this was expressed. I would remind you, maybe at the beginning I wasn't clear enough, but I would remind you that when you put up this commission, you were vehemently saying that you would prove how the money from Patrie came into the SDS and how the money from Patrie went for the freebies, and today you're having trouble giving one private person some money. Two private individuals and the Constitution are privacy, privacy and property, and you make this a problem, and neither one of them is an SDS official, not even a member, as far as I know, but I know quite well, and neither one of them is a public official. This is said, from that strong family, when you went, as you did years ago, J is Janez Janša, but today it is known that J is a Jerkovic there in Croatia, and that you were involved in previous elections by flashing. That's also how it disintegrates, what you put at the starting point when you set up this committee. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Mr Grimes, if the point is that there is something to be said about Patricia, I have no memory of Mr Mirko Brulc saying anything about Patricia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u71	And for this reason, honourable presidents, if I may finish, I say that it is only two poor freebies. These two freemen have long completed their journey and none of these objectives have been achieved by chance. Because you already knew basically that none of this was true, but in order to cover it all up, you're not doing anything other than attacking media freedom today. And it's sad that it is. Where did you fall?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Kumer has the floor to prepare Melita Župevc, followed by Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Holy Forgiveness has become in those that are a little more difficult, the political slang used by those who use it in such a parable, if I use it when you step on a cat's tail. And those who today feel a little worse in this room can only grow weary, so many apparently could not read this report because they know more or less what is in this report. These facts are more or less familiar. So the truth is like blessed water, everyone praises it, but no one likes to be sprayed in his eyes. And something similar is happening with regard to today's consideration of the report on the free investigative commission led by colleague Melita Župevc. SDS and your playmakers, loud speakers, are ready to moralize others at any moment about the truth, but when someone else tries to serve you with the truth, you complain, you pray, and you search for procedural exits. That is exactly what has been going on for the past 14 days, and it is also happening all day. However, many of the facts and findings of the commission of inquiry confirm and attach to many perceptions at the beginning of the release of both the Slovenian weekly and Expressa, that they are behind politics and that it is only a tool of the political marketing of the then ruling political options, particularly the largest coalition party of the SDS. If nothing else, it is already the end of the exit of both free-of-charges immediately after the elections – after the elections extended by the political option, in particular the SDS party that lost them – proof that financial support after the elections was intended only in the event of the victory of this political option or of this party in the elections, not in the name of defeat. That is why, of course, these freebies also went out of business a few days after the election campaign in 2008. Because the content of both freemen was characterized by a strong political definition – if you go to look at all the numbers, from first to last – which was, as a rule, born into open bias and open political agitation, especially for the largest party to the SDS, and incorrect treatment of political opponents. And since this content of contributions from a journalistic and ethical point of view was mostly controversial, the authors were, of course, forced to hide under pseudonyms. However, as has been said many times in these contributions, it has not been possible for them to defend themselves against accusations, half-truths and pure lies. Thus, the political contracting authority, who was behind these contributions, was masked by the authors who were creating these contributions, which were hidden under pseudonyms and in some way tried to cover up the financing of both of these free-of-charges. However, the Commission has gathered sufficient evidence, through a number of collected documentation and a hearing of the witnesses, in my opinion and in my opinion, I stress once again, enough evidence to establish that the free project of the then ruling coalition, in particular the largest SDS parties, was in the election race for parliamentary seats in the National Assembly in 2008. Because the way these two freemen were created was typical, it was something special. The editorial policy was guided by some kind of headquarters principle and, in the whole story, the most impressive, which, of course, was what the publisher and also the owner of the publisher of the Slovenian Week said in a loud voice on the investigative committee that the content of each issue was being prepared in a secret location. I point out, in a secret location. Hello? 2008 Why and for what reason, of course, the newspaper’s contents were created and the newspaper was placed in a secret location. This was started many years ago at so-called partisan printing plants, 2008 this is not necessary. Out of fear of which this was done in secret locations, the real question to which this commission, of course, has found the answer and the answer is clear. If you're doing something that's not in line with the standards and ethics that apply in journalism, if you're abusing positive legislation, if you're violating certain laws, then of course you have to hide and create under the alias, also because you're being paid in black because you're not paying income from it, you're not paying taxes, and that's what the witnesses who were on the board of inquiry said that these transactions were made out of pocket to hand. And a second time. If you decide to run a negative electoral campaign, then you'll do exactly what those two freebies are. The entire content of all the numbers issued during the election campaign and the editorial strategy has been focused, once again, on the discreditation of the political opponent. Instigations, half-truths, untruths dominated them, counting on the effect that hundreds of times repeated ownership eventually becomes the truth. And you also used this strategy after the closure of these two freemen in this mandate as an opposition, and I must say that you have been quite successful at this. In short, the Commission has shown more than that the freeman as a Trojan horse was used for the purpose of a negative election campaign. And in the end. The most tragic end to these two freemen, as has already been said today, is that in the end the innovators or inventors, the company that was the publisher of this biggest week, the freeman, sold it to a deleted rascal in a park somewhere in the centre of Ljubljana. And it is even more tragic that, to this day, with all these behaviours and knowledge, all that is in the public eye, what this investigative commission has found, which has continued to trigger to some of the authorities that need to respond, nothing has happened to the innovators and inventors of this project today. That is why I must end by saying that I fully agree with the statement made by my colleague Miro Friday in 1996, when he gave press ethics at one of the round tables, and said, among other things: "It seems that Slovenian journalism has not yet been over the childhood disease of the transition from socialism to capitalism, even more so, it was at a time of vulgar capitalism, where persistence in journalistic ethics is often in diametric opposition to machiavellism when the goal is to devote resources." And once again, the press contributions made in these two free-of-charges are an ethical example of this assessment made by colleague Friday at the time. None of the discredited had any place to defend themselves and could not defend themselves against these brutal discredits. A magazine without an editorial, a newspaper that appears in a secret location — how and where can you turn for your satisfaction? And in the end, because something was said to mention the name of colleague Mira Petk in this inquiry report. This is this newspaper, a freeman in a free magazine, on eight pages that Progress is supposed to be squeezing. In doing so, I must say that Progress did not carry out this activity. Progress doesn't print magazines. Both freemen were printed by others on request and on the account of Progression. And a second time. I, too, would have such a freebie for 1,200 euros, which would have been squeezed in such large quantities and distributed because it was distributed in all households. I, too, am prepared for 1,200 euros and would report this to my electoral headquarters that it is going to the final account of the electoral campaign. Comrade Mira, today you admitted to knowingly or subconsciously violating electoral law because you didn't report it. Okay, but then, dear fellows, don't paint us or the public that you have absolutely nothing to do with these two freebies. I would have applied myself so that Progression could press such a newspaper and, once again, I would have said that it would have been distributed for this money through Slovenian households. But I didn't know there was a possibility. Only some had this option, namely those who participated in the creation and output of these two free-of-charges. And just for the end. If in 2008 there were two free printed media that was influenced by the then coalition and the largest opposition party, we have today, as trends in this media area go forward, two internet addresses that also deal with it for free. Of course, technology is moving forward and this strategy, which the SDS used in 2008, is moving on. I'm the only one who hopes that someone will step on someone's toes in the abuse of positive electoral legislation and campaigns.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Thank you very much. First, Mr. Miro Petek asked for a replica. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. That first quote from Comrade Kumra — I really didn't know that I was so smart that I spoke so cleverly 10, 15 years ago. Thank you for reminding me of that. And as for this attachment, Friday, I feel like I've even overpaid. Because that's 3,000 copies for Koroška, and I shared a lot of them on the stands. This wasn't about all of Slovenia, Mr. Kumer. [[advertising from the hall]] Listen, it's a rotation, you don't have the right copy, you printed it off the Internet, it's a PDF format, otherwise it's a rotation. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Kumer, let me ask you something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Please, Mr. Friday, please. Don't talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Let's see how much it costs when the paper goes on the rotation. Not even 10 cents. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you. My procedural proposal is dual, and I'd like you to really listen to it. First of all, I would suggest that you seriously warn the honourable Mr Kumr, the SD Member, given his last words, that the only countries that are embarking on the restriction of freedom of information on the Internet, North Korea, China and several other similar exotics, and that God does not allow Slovenia to do anything like this, as follows from his words. This is not the subject of today's session either. Secondly, not only will we be critical, but I suggest that you also commend him for the part where he has so brilliantly defined the attitude of SD to the truth in the introduction to his performance. If I paraphrase him that the truth is like blessed water, only no one in the SD likes you to spray it in his eyes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I read the commission report. It's considered a real criminal, interesting, like a Stig Larsson-style criminal, a famous Swedish writer. The authors could also paraphrase and maybe this point was addressed to the Party that played with fire and burned itself. It is very simple, because most people will not be able to reach this report for the time being – I may later discover how it could be done, in whole or at least large. The basic point is very clear. Through straw companies to cover personal and organisational ties with the SDS, channel money from public and state-owned companies to straw newspapers that are only in the form of a newspaper, but in fact two months or more until the elections, and a few days after that, the pre-election process and the material with which the party went to everyone, both on the left and in the middle and even on the right, which could be harmful. And that's a simple story. How to make money for these consecrated purposes so that we're not there. But there is a trail. And there was something, as is evident from the discussions, about your big-time organizers, about the scarves. The second lesson I learned from this is simply that the old rule applies to those who have been here for three years preaching to us about honesty, justice, credibility, just for those "right" honest people who have a mouthful of honesty turns out to have full pockets of honesty and that in these pockets this honesty is in the form of a euro currency that can be shared here and there, as it has been seen in this case. Of course, I will ask my colleague Petka for advice on how to organise, print and distribute this material for a thousand 200 euros. Since a thousand 200 euros is not a problem for future elections, I will pay them out of my own pocket, through an electoral account to understand, and perhaps today I will be able to advise another newspaper instead of the Slovenian weekly, which distributed this free and sympathetic package or pre-election newspaper. Besides, I think there's something good that needs to be pulled out of every thing. When we discovered how to cut through public or state money in these companies and use it for our own purposes, we also discovered some new innovations. Perhaps, however, Mr Simić already mentioned is actually a model of free entrepreneurship supported by this party. A man — that is, a Hollywood movie story — today is a bummer in a market where he asks for a figurines here and there, and in half an hour he is already an entrepreneur who buys a company for EUR 57,000. I think that maybe this economic miracle that's happening, this entrepreneurial practice, it's got something on it and maybe it's not random. Let's go to some park one day and look a little bit, maybe we'll be entrepreneurs in no time, just like this one. I'd say the following about everything else. Nice deal isn't a secret because it was a public part. Telekom, Media Polis, 104 annex, please. That's all he says about these things. A man who lends 300,000 euros to a friend to publish a newspaper, since the same man, Raščan, has destroyed a complete publishing house with a set of 12 or even more newspapers two years later. Many of them were, however, some of them appreciated more, some less. But maybe there's something about it, but maybe this entrepreneur just did his job to destroy these newspapers that belong more to the world, the lay, civil, non-orthodox media spheres. But maybe that's the goal of going to the newspaper "sugrunt" if they could already finance these gratis women indirectly. Gentlemen, however, not only have you not been honest, I personally did not expect this, no matter how much you speak of this honesty, you have been caught with the underwear that fell down on you, and it is quite a shame, especially for the Slovenian political and media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bevk alone, prepare to be Mrs. Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. A respected choir! On July 30, 2008, a few weeks before the national elections, a free-for-all Express appeared. In the introduction, Nika Albrecht – today we know that this is a pseudonym who was behind him, but I do not know – wrote: "A new free weekly Express, bringing a fresh journalistic approach to Slovenia's media space with the current political struggles, and with the ambition of presenting as an independent officer the key events that make the image of Slovenia critical and impartial", both the editorial under the pseudonym. On the last page of the column, however, Dr. Matej Makarovič, a professor at the Faculty of Applied Social Studies, also wanted everything for the traveller. Thus he wrote: "When a new media project begins, it is difficult to know in advance how far it will be for the future of Slovenian media space. But this inevitable uncertainty is not difficult for me to accept, so I gladly decided to cooperate with the present newspaper” such a distinguished associate. According to these ambitious forecasts, this new media project ended after eight figures, more precisely on 17 September, a few days before the state elections. It's interesting to see who the key people of this project are. The director of the company who published this paper was a gym teacher, and the responsible editor was a lovely lady, better known from some other publications, who had never dealt seriously with journalism and the media. About the author of the editorial in the first issue of Express, the editor of the Journal then wrote that in the good 20 years of journalism he had no opportunity to meet journalist Nike Albrecht. It is not clear to me how such a demanding project with a weekly load of 340,000 copies and huge resources, where, by the way, in the first issue, not a single advert has been published, leads some perfect amateurs. Perfect amateurs. An interview with the director of this project, published three years ago in the Journal24, is also very interesting. It is right to read it again, even because it is very short and says more than a long novel. The first question was, "How many employees do you have in the company?" Answer: "The company does not have regular employees at this time, but has 10 co-thinkers, who co-create and work in the media." Second question: "Where are your business premises?" Answer: "Form-tek, d.o.o. is registered at the address you have already tendered for. In view of the design and organisation of the operation, it operates in several locations from which the participants in the project originate." Next question: "How did you choose the responsible editor?" Answer: "I've known Barbara since she was in the band. In view of her abilities and experience with the media, we decided in the internal circle of participants to make her editor." Next question: "Are you a member of any political party?" The answer is, "No, I'm not. I'm an athlete. The philosophy of athletes is actions, not words." Question: "How did you go on vacation before the second issue?" He says, "I've planned it before, but otherwise I'm doing jobs that are not related to physical presence." And to the question of whether he was employed in elementary school as a gym teacher, he said, "Hold on." So I wouldn't discuss the contents of the officer. However, an interesting list of individuals with whom interviews were published in Express is available. The eight figures included Prof. Žiga Turk, Minister for Development of the Government of Janez Janša; Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance of the same Government; Dr. Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health of the same Government; and Dr. Dragutin Mate, Minister of Interior of the Government of Janez Janša. In almost every number, talks with prominent SDS members and candidates for MPs at the September 2008 national elections. And now our respected SDS colleagues are explaining that they had nothing to do with this project. I hope that such a bizarre media project will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u84	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat, behind her, Mr. France Tsukati. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Silva Nigga is to prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I'm a fellow MP. Melita Župevc asked whether she would sign a request for the establishment of an investigative commission, I said that if she thought that this investigative commission would finish its work in the mandate, because, as they say, as an experienced Member, I know that a number of investigative commissions have not finished their work so far. Therefore, I must first say that I will support the conclusions proposed by the Commission, and that I am particularly pleased with the fourth conclusion that the National Assembly of the Presidents of all these institutions – I will not state who they are, but in this case, for example, the police, the prosecution and so on – will expect appropriate action. This is because the Commission of Inquiry has done what the Commission of Inquiry can do and has left all other actions to those responsible in the country. She gave up – I read this report on Friday afternoon – to some supposed conspiracy stories, but she based her findings on verifiable facts, and for her work, like some of my colleagues, I confess. But now we're going to do two freebies. In doing so, I must say that I, who came from northeastern Slovenia, could accompany the freeman who was assigned to the Slovenian countryside, this is the Slovenian Week. And in this week, I was also given treatment. The week created free advertising for me, published a nice photo with my colleague Ptrčem and a staff member of the National Assembly Boris Vrišer was in that photograph. I won't discuss the content. It was signed by Vid Videc. I already have so much knowledge of literary theory that it's a pseudonym, but I thought who made Vidku's shirt and we were all reading when we were little. Well, there was no way to challenge anyone, because it was a pseudonym, because it was really written in a collophony, who is a publisher and what kind of a load, it could also be read from Express, but that's exactly what the Journalist Honor Court was also doing and found that it was a fundamental problem of violation of media law, because those who are not satisfied with what was written could not deny it. And look, look, those Members who have so much advocated the right to correction have denied me this fundamental right in their work. But as a politician, I have to be prepared to have something written about me that I am not exactly satisfied with, but if again, after the practice of some other actions – my relatives were hurt by that article – I should file a civil suit and claim compensation for mental pain. This has now been said with a little humor, but the Journalist Honorable Judgement has, however, assessed some of the content in these two freemen as unethical and unprofessional journalistic practice. And it would be expected that those who are so appraised do not give a damn. It was also about identifying plagiarism, as you know, the Slovenian Week, Democracy and Express, they were strangely similar to each other. But what is particularly surprising to me is that now we hear how these two freebies have been a major enrichment of the Slovenian media space. I wonder how some of the enrichment of the Slovenian media space is imagined if we read the freeman and if we know what the content of these two newspapers was. What upsets me more is that it is an eclectic example of how to overwhelm the laws of as many as three laws – the media, the electoral campaign and the political parties – and, of course, it is still likely that they are happy to haggle because, at least, it seems to have worked out well for some. When I talk about breaking the law, of course, I mean that it is not possible to publish certain content that is clearly electoral-propaganda in character, without having also declared revenues and costs for the electoral campaign. Then it happens to someone who makes such a simple statement because I paid it out of my pocket. If things were to go so cheap, then each of us would probably be saving a nice stack of money and funding an electoral campaign from his own pocket. That's not how it works. It is also known, by quoting Article 25 of the Political Parties Act, that this article prohibits companies in which a state or a self-government local community has more than 25% of its share in capital and companies in which these companies have a majority share, not to finance political parties or any of its activities. The Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act prohibits the same. So it is a violation of two laws, and as I said, of the Media Act, it is a violation of the correction. Interestingly, those who took up such a project for four years and praised on their mouths how the advocates of transparency, clean accounts and good friendships were, of course,. I would say that what was done with these two bats is not related to pure accounts, but that is why I cannot be friends with them, but I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. One technical question. They were usually public work magnetograms after ten or fifteen minutes. Now it takes two and a half hours, more or less public, and the magnetograms of almost no discussions are available, I think except for the first two. I ask what is the reason why we can't get to the debater's magnetograms, which we also need to argue about. Does this part also remain in some way confidential and secret, or is there any reason even deeper that we might not be able to argue in any way? Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Mr Tanko, you've been here before and you've informed us and asked us what you've asked again. I'm telling you, I've been asking myself what's going on, there's been some technical errors, in about fifteen, twenty minutes, you're going to get a magnetogram. Satisfied? Thank you. Ms Melita Župevc has the floor as her proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am glad that, as President of the Commission, it is not my fault, too, how quickly magnetograms are typed in this National Assembly. Thank God, at least this part's not my fault. But there's one thing I'd like to say. There was so much talk about what is public, what is not public, what is hidden, what is accessible to the public, and on the other hand, they were constantly advocating that all things be public. As President of the Commission of Inquiry, I have addressed a letter to those economic operators and other bodies that we have included in this report, asking them whether they agree to make certain documents public at the request of the SDS. Among these documents we received, say, the response of Holding the Slovenian Power Plant and because you would like to talk publicly about things that could be public, I would like to say one example. This case of the commission of inquiry was interesting to me and to my colleagues also from one other point of view, it was that it flooded so many other things, so many networks that were involved, so many people who were trying to help that it was incredible. I will give a concrete example, given that Holding the Slovenian Power Plant has no problem in public operating on these documents. What kind of contracts did this commission of inquiry come to? I'll give you a case. I have before me a contract signed by Progresion, which was the publisher of the Slovenian Week, and Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. Mr Jože Zagozhen and Damian Kolletnik, and such contracts, were signatories to this Treaty. Then a cooperation agreement was concluded between Progresia, the publisher of the Slovenian Week, and Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. This contract was signed on 24 June 2008, i.e. before the summer holidays, and the autumn elections were held. This contract was signed at EUR 40 000, but it is interesting that the accounts for this contract have never been issued by another contractual partner. Then new contracts were concluded. They first concluded an agreement to terminate this contract, then issued a contract to Media Polis, then issued a contract to Spem and so on. These are contracts that are in the documentation if anyone wants to read them, but some of you don't want to know what it says in these documents, or you don't want to know what it says in this report. An example of Drava power plants. The drone power plants sent folder boxes to the investigative commission. Boxes. I have one bad trait, that's to read what people send me. And in these boxes there are contracts to deal with law enforcement. And these treaties were concluded precisely in this mandate, right at the time we are talking about. Gentlemen, if you're really interested, then I advise you to go read something sometime. And one more thing. Lately, so much has been said in terms of "receive the thief" and it has consistently turned out to be one freeman, so called SDS, which is called Z eye in hand. We'd better clear this up once and for all. This was not a freebie, but on it it is clear and black on white it reads: Single issue, Thursday, October 11, 2007. What is essential is what some do not want to read, and what is crucial is that you cannot pull any parallels and that your parallels are sad and tragic, and I will now read it. "Publisher and publisher: Election Headquarters Danilo Türka, Vienna 119" and so on. "Authors of Contributions: Dr. Ljubica Jelusič, Dr. Lucka Kaifez Bogataj, Dr. Dragica Wedam Lukić, Tone Partljič" and so on. That's the difference. These people who did this signed their name and name, and they said, "Yes, this is our project. We stand behind him, we defend him, we go to elections with him. You can't do this bravery or anything else, say, a mutiny. Everything else you say is sad for this National Assembly. It's sad! The facts are what they are. There's no big story. The commission of inquiry has done its job. And that's it. Whether you vote in favour or against the decisions. Everything else is some kind of low-level political accounting, and it's not at my level. As it is said, as President, I have always worked on the basis of facts and this report is based on facts. Your entanglement with this logical conclusion is, as it is said, criticized by those who were not even enough to go to the report at least to read and then criticize it. No, but they've been criticizing him since the beginning. Gentlemen, we did not expect the SDS to say: Yes, it is, and this report is an excellent report, one of the better reports we have seen in this National Assembly. Everything it says, we sign, it's all true. We know you probably wouldn't have seen this movie. When you talk about the responsibility of public officials. The conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry are unequivocal. If you are, or if any of you have expected this investigative committee to call Mr. Janez Janša, I have no idea what Janez Janša's interrogation would look like. He would come and say, "Sorry you're asking me any questions, it's all true, we admit everything, it's no problem. We probably know what that hearing would look like. We didn't have any need to question the officials because we had enough documents. But when you talk about which session was called and cancelled and so on, it's funny. This commission of inquiry had 18 meetings, heard 24 witnesses, received thousands of pages of documents. What more would you like?Oh, my God! You wish there wasn't something in it that isn't right for you. I'm sorry, but that's just the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Ms Silva Črnugelj has the floor, and Mrs Janja Klasinc will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. To begin with, I am not a member of any parliamentary commission of inquiry, nor have I been a substitute and never been. I probably won't, because somehow, I could say that at home, I feel some resistance to such and similar committees. Not because of this particular one, but because of the 20-year history of this Parliament and the results of all the committees that have worked so far, where unfortunately there have been no major epilogues and conclusions. After one and a half years, this Commission has drawn up a final report, which is not small and inexhaustible. This committee is one of the first to actually succeed. This committee was able to review the documents in meters, as we were told in our line of work. This commission, together with the president and experts, addressed thousands of letters and, as the president has just said, how many witnesses she has heard. Of course, she did it, it wasn't easy. Because, you know, this law, with the comment I have here, the rules on elections to the National Assembly in 2008, is not simple and not so banal. When I look at how and how the elections took place in 2008, how we counted all the posters, and how we looked at what items we would have, and how we had to write down every little thing, because they demanded it in our customers, at least in ours, I wonder how this could have happened in one such party. Or was it because she was in power that she was simply somehow looked through her fingers? There is a lot of deception, manipulation and misdirection, of course, in the media, especially if people sign with pseudonyms, even though we know that they must be made publicly available under the Law by pseudo editors or editors alone. Of course, I cannot deny that the complete material of this commission of inquiry would not be good reading in all general libraries because it reads very intensely. I believe that one day it will be time for individuals, ordinary people to read this material and see how and how people have reached certain positions. I regret that this has happened. Of course, I congratulate the Commission, my colleague Župevc, and I can say that when she attached a letter to establish this Commission, I only signed a request to set up this Commission. Because of this, it appears that I still have a reservation to such and similar commissions, because this country must show and prove that the rule of law has instruments that it can work with, but it is obvious that such commissions are also necessary with such people who work so actively, because in some ways things are clear and put into the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Mrs Janja Klasinc has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate and the results of the report we are talking about today could be referred to as the dark side of Slovenian parliamentaryism, Slovenian party policy, because what one of the parties has enjoyed in the Slovenian political space, and this is the Slovenian Democratic Party, is all valid and very sad. That's what she says the most about her. Today we have heard in the debate that all our criticisms that we are directing are an attack on the media. No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not even talking about the media here. The Slovenian weekly and Express, the freebie, as they were called, are not even the media. These were two printed pamphlets. These are pre-election pamphlets. I worked in journalism for more than 20 years, and when I first got the Slovenian Week, and then the Express, I couldn't believe my eyes. I was convinced that it was really not about the media, because the quality of the style of writing the articles — let’s say articles because they were not articles, but really political pamphlets — was at such a low level that it was impossible for any serious journalist to produce it. Like a colleague in the Journal who was already mentioned by Member Sam Bevk, I myself did not know any name that performed there. In short, we can't even talk about the contents of these magazines. These are poorly produced party texts, which we are now witnessing on some of the websites mentioned today. Looks like the authors are the same. I don't know a medium that doesn't have a permanent address; I don't know a medium that doesn't have a responsible editor for a man who worked in journalism for at least a decade, not a gym teacher; I don't know a medium that doesn't even know where he is, who he is, what he's been for or what he's made of. Now let's go to what is more important for this committee and for the National Assembly, from where the money for producing client materials is only one party in an election campaign. Everyone says that money and advertisements must be followed – although very rarely in these media – testify that most of these ads have come from companies that are either wholly or partly public. Who advertised? The cell phone under the direction of former director Klaudi Godnič, we know where it belonged; the Post Office of Slovenia is still the current director of Aleš Hauc, who at the time not only paid ads in these two free-of-charges, but also had plastic backings on the windows of her post office. Have you seen a political party who would use a public firm that would advertise only one political party? Then New KBM, Reinsurance Triglav Re, Telekom, Hit, Petrol and, look at it, a fraction, the Government Information Office. The government's information office was also misused at the time. And if we collect some totals, because we've heard some sums, not to mention here, it came from the taxpayer's money for these ads over, say, 200,000 euros. Let's get some math. 200 000 euros from here, 300 to 350 000, as I understand it, from Matthew Raszczan's private pocket, which, of course, ran out to pay social contributions to his employees on a regular basis. And you come up with 560,000 euros, which you're subtracting from two million, as far as it's estimated that these two freebies have been costing all this time, and some amount of money is running out. As we know, the church of Zvon 1 contributed its contribution, which I understand because the freeman had to be blessed. I wonder where the rest of the money is again, because here, in these financial checks, there's absolutely nothing clear, because there's no transparency, where the money came from, probably from, and I'm not going to tell you where that suitcase came from. Of course, there's something else I'm wondering. What have the supervisory councils of these public companies and law enforcement authorities been doing all this time in the wake of these irregularities and violations? The organs are still in pursuit until today. Does a parliamentary commission of inquiry really have to come forward to discover things that were clear to the general public? In particular, because these acts have infringed, as has already been said, Article 25 of the Political Parties Act, which prohibits companies in which a state or a self-government local community has more than 25% of its share in capital, and companies in which these companies have a majority share, to finance political parties or their activities. Similarly, the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, which commands political parties to show in their campaign reports all the costs they had in connection with the electoral campaign, was violated. The SDS party reported EUR 641 000 of its costs. Only these two freebies cost two million. I'm actually wondering where that difference came from and where the responsibility came from. But what saddens me most is that the consequences of these sacrifices are the journalists and newspapers of Del Revij, which he also took over as a complete media anonymus years ago during the government of Janez Janša, Mr Matej Raščan. Today there are professional journalists, among whom I have been alone, on the road and do not know what will happen to their fate. Because we had to issue pamphlets with signatures of complete anonymouss.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Mr Janko Weber has the floor, Mr Franz Pukšič will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I think that most of us, and probably also voters, are reminded of the guess whether the Slovenian Week and Express are free of charge for the ordinary trumpet SDS, as we said at the time. I think that this doubt, by what the Commission has examined completely and truly, was at the time of the SDS trumpet, has, of course, been a political stalemate in order to disqualify political rivalries and thus try to use its party to regain power. I must say, I recognized myself in these newspapers, of course, but I never recognized the one who wrote about me. Vida Videc was the one who wrote under the alias. One of those journalists, also mentioned by the investigating commission in his report, was Vid Videc, is in fact difficult to identify. It is surprising or not, however, that the whole range of journalists, not only as mentioned, are unprofessional, there were also many who are actually professional journalists who worked in the Slovenian Press Agency or even in the public institution of RTV Slovenia. It's a truly remarkable, obviously strong campaign, which wasn't exactly lenient to all those we weren't after, at the time, in this campaign. When you somehow read the material and findings of this commission, it may be a little easier for you to find that there was a lot of church money lost in this, because all the companies and funds that were also owned by the Maribor archdiocese have, as they themselves said, spent a lot of money. And they never got that money back. But we can probably all imagine what would have happened if the SDS were actually the winner of these elections. All of this would be paid back by taxpayers, and all of these costs would, of course, be borne either by state-owned companies or also through a number of procedures allowing for the absorption of state resources from state budgets. The damage was not only caused to the press, but apparently also to all those who financed the campaign. What my colleague has already pointed out before me seems particularly painful to me, that Matthew Raščan and his company, Delo Revije, who, in fact, had said in his own words, "put on a cant", an extremely popular magazine and something that formed a public opinion, also helped a lot of people to develop their position or relax with a little less difficult information, and to experience pleasant moments in these weeks when he read them at home. All of this has also led to the fact that 350 000 Euros that Matthew Raščan used to use his company, Del Revije, to a large extent put at risk what was traditionally recognized in Slovenia and, of course, what we want to see in the future is still a public opinion and, as I have already said, may also have helped someone to learn from these professional articles, which come from a number of magazines, which, of course, this company should also prepare and issue in the future, not under the auspices of this owner. So the separation of policy from all these attempts of manipulation and distortion of public opinion is one key, which is still very important, even at this time in which we are today, because it is particularly important that we realize that there will no longer be room for manipulation at these moments, that it is distorted, that it is trying to sell only some unilateral information. I think that there is a much more serious moment ahead of us, and it is right to take as a great reminder all that has happened to these freemen, that such things are not, of course, admissible in the future and are particularly harmful to both good companies and, of course, to all those journalists who have also participated in these projects. I hope that the results and conclusions that we will vote on today will also really help to create legislation in the future that will effectively prevent all that has happened illegally, semi-legally, in the issuance of these free agents. I think that, at the end of the actual commission, congratulations should be given to the excellent quality of the work done, because everything that is written is based on arguments, very few things could be identified or could be seen in this report, which would be the product of some kind of ingenuity, a distortion of data. On the contrary, it is very clear information that justifies the fact that it was a genuine party political campaign or if you want, as I said at the outset, the sound of the SDS party. I hope we do not face this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. The next one will be Mrs. Mag. The parishioner. [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I agree with that part of the conclusion when my colleague said that, before a serious moment in the country, and in my opinion, of course, it would have to be those few more days, when the National Assembly is sitting, to deal with as much as possible with any small shift in the direction of social agreement, in the direction of what to do to increase economic growth. However, since we have in law that, if not earlier, at least at the last meeting of the National Assembly, the reports of the investigative groups that adopt the conclusions are also being considered, among other things, today. It's the law, it's the rules of procedure, and it's the right thing to do. However, I would like to say that there were not always the same vats, the same meter, on the side that is coming today with this report. It was the year 2000 when the Investigative Commission for the Injury of Social Property adopted 10 decisions, i.e. it adopted a final report, put it to the College and the College on the agenda of the Meeting of the National Assembly and Members of the SD and then the LDS voted on the proposal of SD Members to withdraw the item from the agenda. Well, that's not right, that's not right, and of course that's not in principle. Here, too, we can see how in one matter we would strip ourselves of skin and skin off, and in another matter we would also cover up manipulations to cover up some of the elitist, clientistic approaches of those who favor it, they would also dress them with Eskimo fur in the middle of the summer. Such an eskimo skin was exactly what you Members and Members of the ruling coalition on the investigative commission, which also deals with the study of elitist, clientistic approaches in the municipality of Ljubljana, did when the interim report was adopted and you voted with 4 votes against the adoption of the interim report. 3 we were in. Why? So that you do not give the opportunity to discuss these clientelistic, elitist matters in the National Assembly and that, as you have done today, these things will be discussed in public. I agree that if something's wrong, it doesn't matter which side it's on. If it's not right, it's not right, you have to say things. But you know, on the one hand, talking about 2 million, which is a lot of money, I agree, and on the other hand, you have prevented our commission, where in its conclusions it stated that companies owned by the immediate family members of the mayor of the Ljubljana municipality, that is, Mr Zoran Jankovic, have obtained a wealth gain of 6.46 million euros. That's not what you were interested in. But here you did not allow the Commission of Inquiry to adopt interim decisions. More. You did not allow us to accept – I read what we wrote in the summary of the findings –"... at the expense of the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana by means of procedures led by the mayor and city administration to the adoption of the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the city council of the Municipality of Ljubljana." The attempt to gain wealth was EUR 20 million. So that we wanted to and that we said that the donations that Mr. Mayor requested were because people didn't come to the Ljubljana Municipality to bring donations to bring bread and milk, so that they wouldn't be hungry there, but he asked people and businesses that are somehow related to the Ljubljana Municipality and also to parts where they had to donate – and that is what the mayor himself said – about the so-called mayor's projects. Because we are talking about numbers here today, we have also identified and collected data, numbers, flips, and read thousands of letters in this commission of inquiry, and I don't know what it is. Autotechna donated only EUR 200 000 – it is true that there is no large donation for the mayor of the Ljubljana City Municipality – say Gratel 250 000 euros or Vegrad 550 000 euros. In short, you wanted all this, dear colleagues, by not giving your consent or by not voting in favour of an interim report, where quiet souls could also prepare their separate report. So you did not let this happen, if not earlier, at least at the last meeting, or today’s extraordinary or next week’s regular meeting of the National Assembly, without talking about it. And in this way it turns out that you are talking to each other, that this is not in principle, and that, of course, you are not contributing to real irregularities in this country at least starting to stop, but you are actually giving such work further accelerations, of course, by such conduct in the National Assembly itself. And all of this is pretty bizarre. Maybe this one too. President, you wrote in the report that you are relying on the documents you have received, but of course this has not been the practice of previous investigative commissions. That's incorrect. What you wrote for yourself is fine, but what others did and didn't do is unfair, because you haven't read and looked at their files, their documents. Mrs Župevčeva, I guarantee that you are not, because the Commission of Inquiry has had at least so many files in the archives since the beginning of this table, and everything there to the end of this table. You haven't looked at these files or looked at them, because you just can't, and that's why it's incorrect. At that time, we also wrote the report on the basis of documents, even on the basis of judgments handed down by the Court. But what happened? Once again, this was blocked by politics and it did not happen what should have happened if those convicted were to remain. And look, with this poor Elan, who is still branded as such fighting, all of them like tigers from every corner are tearing her up every year, and so she's still alive. Speaking of how this affected the electoral campaign in the previous term, I'd say the following. This year, obviously, those who have prevented you from having a report on the irregularities of the Ljubljana Municipality, will probably have any problems or already have covered campaigns, because for Mr. Zoran Jankovic, and unfortunately also for some of the visiting Slovenian people, it is not surprising because the boys are full-year old, because if at the age of 25 the mayor's son does not have two million euros and does not drive with a white Mercedes without a driver's license, then there is no type, then there is no Jack. As you support all of this with your work here in Parliament, you are becoming very, very reputable, and I hope that, of course, the Slovenian public will not fall for such frauds that you create. When you talk about these people as capable organizers and they have the ability to establish social dialogue, that means that boys will be 25 years old. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Mr Pukšič, let us remember what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u99	I'm talking about the commission of inquiry, the work, the conclusions, the conclusions of the commission of inquiry. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u100	I'd like to ask, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u101	adopted by the Commission on free of charge. [[...]] But that was, of course, and I'm saying what's waiting for us today. I initially said and agreed with my colleague Weber that it is a really serious moment to make it better, more important today to talk about what to do to change economic growth, but not about it, but at the same time I am warning what is already happening to us here today, in front of our eyes, and it will happen tomorrow, because we are just in a campaign for the election because we are going to be on December 4th and we know what this is going to be about. I just want to point out that the Slovenian public will also have the opportunity to hear from the other side, the other side of this story. Well, you're not as clean and innocent as you want, but of course you have some of your receipts, which I think are very bizarre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Dr. Luke Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Majda Shirca, let Mr. Mag. It's a crane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I hope and believe that this debate in the National Assembly today will open up a debate on what principle and non-majority in politics means, what respect for responsibility and rules of the game means, what illegal action means and what immoral action means. In this sense, we must not forget that nothing is free, but that everything is paid. At the outset, I must answer on behalf of the one who was unable to respond today, this is my colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who was brutally and falsely attacked by Ambassador Mir Petk, a former journalist, namely a man who defended the truth and justice within the media space and who today was unethically deceiving or deceiving himself – let us leave his former activities in the context of the crucifixion of his pre-election flyers, but that he has subordinated all the resources to the goal, but that is not right – so let me repeat what Mrs Pavlinič claims to the obvious fact that she was manipulating the material that was published on Koroška cable television or on cable television Ravna in Koroškem. There, journalist Dani Vunderl organised an event within the local television station and invited two independent commentators to the event, Mrs Marta Kos and Mr Mekin, who, with the aim of informing and thinking about the current state of affairs, the political moment at the time, informed the public and discussed the situation, including Mr Mekin’s praise to Mr Petk. But she didn't share the CDs. It is not nice that Mr Friday, as I say, is a fighter for freedom and justice now after an innocent attack on people and is lying. I understand that anxiety is in the knowledge of the unethical and frightening methods that we receive in a way every day. Remember the SDS list of journalists, or people, citizens, politicians, or anyone on the firing list. We will recall the installation of archival recordings within the media of the website of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today to talk about that freemen were once the expansion of the plurality of Slovenian media space is, of course, very not only frivolous, but already a ridiculous and inappropriate excuse, because they revived primarily by manipulating the media space by exploiting it. Today, in the matter of free of charge, the Slovenian Democratic Party is undoubtedly the most guilty and most exposed, that I do not speak the most disgraced, because you are not here at all today. I must point out that you have greatly underestimated this commission, which is doing excellent work and also unique work in the history of parliamentary commissions. You said he was blowing up a smoke commission where there was no fire, but fire was, and today, credible evidence is more than enough on the table. The fire was and cannot be denied these evidences, which speak for the unethical action of the SDS political party, who did not choose the tools to spit on the opponents of the most dirty frauds before the elections. Nor is it in favour of some journalists who have taken part in this game, that we are not talking about certain companies, and in particular those who are in the direct and direct ownership of the country that stepped into this game, supported it and, of course, stimulated it with a future computer. Let me mention just one thing – The Post Office of Slovenia. Slovenia's post office was giving off discounts. She gave her discounts and Mail Slovenia has also paid several times today Raščan, director of Dela Revij, who has not paid or paid social contributions or salaries and who has literally dropped some long-standing and intensive media projects and which had money – €31 000 140 – for giving to his friends without a contract, which is sort of a loan between friends. Mail. If you remember before the elections, the post office was all over Slovenia, just like New Year's steel, there were only two magazines, Reporter and Democracy. By the way, all or most of the best-representative and today still very active writers, journalists and journalists of the Reporter and Democracy have written in both freemen. They're not separate, but this is one project that worked on the same principles. It may also be worth asking whether it is the case that these two magazines, two weeks, received quite enormous subsidies in the media tender and whether it is also the case that one of the evaluators of this media tender was specifically invited by the former minister. I have to stop at the question of the role of Matthew Raštan in this game because this role not only has a stain, a pack and all the inappropriate results of inappropriate work in the Monera or Del Revij project, which is at the time, but I should warn you that when Matthew Rašččan was questioned at the hearing and at the open meeting, and he exercised his excuses, which were more or less later revealed as a different truth, he replied that his business decision was his if his friends, who co-financed the freebies, had borrowed money because it was an investment for the future. What future? He was really here, as my colleague Gantar said, someone got caught with his pants down. But what future? The future was counted on and the whole project was counting on this future to be greased, manipulated, and have all the power, undoubtedly, in the future, when they come into power with the help of tools, that is to say, freemen. Let me say another bizarre thing about the fact that in some way only John Janša was supposed to write contributions for free, as the media had already determined, because it was clear at the end that the texts were written under aliases or under other names. In this case, I will quote Nike Albrecht in one of the first numbers of the Express, which has repeated words that have been spoken at the same time by Mr Janša about the fact that it is clear in the Mafia newspapers that no one can write against the Mafia. We know that these words have been spoken in the face, at the same time, and it is impossible that such telepathy would not have been among the supposed journalist who wrote it. I mean, they've gone so far with all the manipulation, they really can't be proud of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Kampush. Let's get the mags ready. Andrea Richter. [[She's not here.]] Andrej Magajna, Aloyz Potočnik, Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will be happy to support all four conclusions that the Commission has drawn up correctly. And I am also congratulating the committee on the excellent work done, and I particularly support the applications, i.e. the criminal charges, which follow on the basis of the hearings that were carried out on the committee. But I fully agree with the predecessors who have talked a lot about how the Slovenian public "will not fall for it", and I am really interested in what was meant by this, "I will not fall for it". Of course, it will not fall for it, since today it is probably clear to everyone that these were hidden manipulations and that the benefits of free-of-charge workers were a pretense that has been proven today. But I'm disturbed by two, three things that I'm going to stress in particular. So above all, how are they or had to donate funds from state-owned companies? What kind of coercion was that? Have donations been made on their own? How did they even draw these important state companies, such as insurance companies and all the other companies, to have donated? Did they donate on their own? You probably all know that the expectation at the expense of this has, of course, been great, as the colleague who spoke before me has in principle stressed this matter. The next thing that I find very disturbing is this. The Commission has undisputedly found that most of those who published or generally wrote in these two newspapers signed with pseudonyms. Respected colleagues and friends, who have fair intentions, who write about politics, should not have to hide and hope to show off their surname and stand up for their contributions, which is perfectly normal in some normal society. And the third thing that really, really stabbed me today came from a fellow Grimes. I didn't find anyone else to talk about Patricia in connection with the freebies. And I don't understand that today someone may claim that Patria has nothing. That's not true. The procedure is underway, my respectable fellows. The procedure on Patria in Slovenia is currently under way. Of course, the procedures are concluded in Finland, they are concluded in Austria and it is undeniably demonstrated that the fees were paid. Of course, it is only proven to our limit, that is to say, to the Slovenian border and it is still not proven. I assume that the process under way in Slovenia will also prove this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Aloys Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tinker Bell, Mr. Jože Tanko will be next. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The procedure in the Patria case is ongoing, but not against those who have received the funds earmarked for their transaction accounts. I don't know what kind of work Cekut's painter had to create to get from Patrie 460 thousand euros, which he publicly admitted, and there's no proceedings against him. I do not know what the former advisor to the President of the State, Mr Kučan, did to receive from 4 to 7 000 euros a month from Patrie. The procedure does not run against these persons. But he runs against some who are to receive the promise of a gift from an unknown person on an unknown day in an unknown place. So, a procedure is under way for a virtual, mental act that has not been done. I must say that this debate today also shows that the ruling coalition, in particular the ruling policy of the Social Democrats, LDS and Really, still today, after three years of government, which thanks to God finally ends, lives in a virtual world, far away from the real problems; far away from the real world; far away from what people expect at that time to do, and with what the policy is to deal with in the light of the problems faced by the Slovenian society. Yesterday we were with the parliamentary group in Zasavje, an area where she ran and was elected in the 2008 elections, Mrs Melita Župevc. A lot of developmental problems, a lot of problems that could be solved in this mandate. None of them were saved. No one was even set up. Moreover, those projects that have been routed in the past mandate 2004-2008 are halted and it is highly likely that this area will be further degraded if there is no other more decisive policy. Just as it is supposed to happen with a government regulation that I hope will never be adopted, which speaks of a degraded area. People there have said that they do not want to be degraded, that they want to follow developments and that they want government policy and the National Assembly, including an MP coming from their environment, to take measures that will benefit them, not harm them. Today, on the left side of the threesome, we listened to a discussion that in a way reflects the state of the spirit in these parties. We listened to the political commissioners and the political commissioners, who would regulate the media from the National Assembly and set up their editorial policy. Since two media outlets had dared to write differently than they had expected, all government machinery had to be launched in a reminder to others who would once again dare to step on a closed media scene with new projects. And despite the fact that they failed, that wasn't enough. These failed projects had to be used to attack the largest opposition party. The conclusions and conclusions read in this report are written in advance. These words, which lie in these conclusions, do not stem from what should be called facts and evidence. They show that these results, which mainly include valuable judgements, were known in advance and that the work of this Commission was only a facade for pre-known results. Finally, it also points to the way in which we have witnessed to this committee. Despite the fact that many other hearings were announced, the Commission decided suddenly overnight to adopt the final report and cancel all the work that had already been announced. That it is also a way of dealing harshly with the public shows the internal treatment of this material, which is public in 90 percent or more. In this 76 - page paper, more than 90 percent of the things that were said at public meetings are held in open hearings where these witnesses were interviewed and a very small part of this documentation is secret and there was no need for this report to be closed. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation in Article 1 provides that in matters of public interest this investigation shall be carried out in order to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. In accordance with this Article, in the spring months of 2010 the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry, where it was written "to decide on the political responsibility of individual public function holders due to the suspicion that individual public function holders were involved in the establishment of issuers, their business and the issuance of free of charge". Only these two, of course, will not be mistaken – not Good Morning, which also collapsed the piano, where the journalists wrote a little differently, but it was for other journalists, for those who were obviously not disturbed for all, because they come from another sphere of interest of some magazine, which every Friday the subject or content draws from the title of the opposition or the largest opposition party, or of course many others that came out then and come out today – but only two. These two were troublesome. However, has this Commission of Inquiry identified a specific name and a specific surname? Who did she find? What can we read in this report? What public function holder was involved in setting up the publishers of these two media, in their business and so on? None. No specific name. No specific name. And, of course, the conclusion is that the SDS is the one that directed it from behind. The conclusions and conclusions are completely different from those found in the actual situation. The Commission was then tasked with finding that individual holders of public functions related to the issue of free-of-charge agents were involved in the alleged infringement by laying down applicable legislation in the field of media, electoral campaigns and political parties, or the alleged abandonment of mandatory conduct. And finally one name, our fellow Member, Miro Petek. Because he paid the electoral newspaper out of his pocket, he is now stigmatized and troubled. He paid from his pocket to make an ad to the polls, and the only case mentioned here is in this section. If it is problematic from the point of view of the infringement of media law, we have authorities that have to decide on it. Several times you sent them to the SDS party headquarters, for every little thing there were media inspectors, the information officer, the last time criminals without a warrant, watching how and how the party publishes its political programme on the SDS website. Scandalous, disaster, 2011. To watch what's on Facebook, which is a public medium. And the third thing. In the investigation: to determine whether individual public function holders were involved in financing free of charge by abuse of their political influence on the cooperation of issuers with companies in which the State has a direct or indirect share of more than 25 % of the capital and companies in which these companies have a majority share with the issuers of free of charge. Again, no name, no political name at all, not from the Slovenian Democratic Party. And again, the Slovenian Democratic Party has directed from behind secret locations where to advertise how to advertise. Please, I can now use this logic to say, "You are now directing Telekom, Mail, because you are in power, I don't know what other state-owned companies are, where and how to advertise," because these ads are nothing in all the media that are far away from writing nice about the Slovenian Democratic Party and its representatives, and there will be no mistake when they write the truth, it's great, even if this ugly one. It's wrong when they write lies against them and despite the strong media legislation you're talking about, we can't defend ourselves. And that wasn't a problem for this committee. The two printed media were problematic, which unfortunately failed unfavorably and the addition that followed about the Slovenian Democratic Party's connection. And what's interesting is that during that period, because they were putting up some kind of mirror, they were disturbing. If I can sum it up. Nowhere in this report is there any institution of a public function of the Slovenian Democratic Party that would be associated with these stories that have been the subject of a parliamentary inquiry. None. Mr Kek, don't say that Tvone Cernač, as I said earlier, and I didn't say that on the third calendar of Slovenian television because I think that's what this report says. The contents of this report talk about this, this is a fact. That's a fact. These mental structures that you had in your head when you set up the commission should be with what you yourself have found, and unfortunately they are not. I would have thought of this commission as a commission for burning media freedom rather than a commission that would have found that individual media were exploited by individual political options. So what did this committee do? She was acting on one side with editorial policy, and you didn't like how this editorial policy was going on, with who was under individual pseudonyms, but just for these two media outlets. By the way, we also had another medium, which was also a freebie, I think it came out in a million copies, until it failed, which, I must say, very nicely wrote about your political structures, a little less beautiful or very ugly about us, but we had no problems. In it we read articles under the alias Maja Volk. Would it be interesting to see if any of the members of the Social Democrats could have written under this alias? This is something similar to what you wrote in this report for individuals on the other hand. The Internet addresses were then mentioned. Do you remember or have you already forgotten the Primorska.info Internet address? 50% of the owner until a recent year or six months ago was Mr Yuri, Jr. He received funds from the Ministry of Culture, it was found that they were not deliberately used, but of course you did not deal with this because there was a need to focus criticism on the Slovenian Democratic Party and all the other actions had to be covered up in some way. Cherry on the cake, as some say, is the current period and the current hidden financing of the media space and friends from your pool. That Mr Bojan Petan, owner of the Diary and many other editions, a friend from your pool, probably does not need to be highlighted in particular. Some time ago, we had a report on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Six million euros of this money, which was intended for decommissioning projects, went to purchase bonds from one of the companies under Mr Petan's control. Six million euros! And at a price that will never be reached again, because the market assessed it there around thirty, the bond was totally inequitable and the bonds were purchased at around one hundred. What about it? No responsibility anywhere, no consequences. Oh, yeah, she was. After a long, long convincing of the authorities after it was found that it was actually an ugly job, the director, who was supposed to become the director, did not become. That was the result. But the damage was done. And in this regard, Mr Matthew Raszczan is mentioned many times. I very much ask you, in which circle Mr Matthew Raščan has moved in recent years. Who was the face of the year? Was that Janez Janša? Who was the politician of the year? Was that Janez Janša? The image of the year, the politics of the year, and I don't know what was planned yet, was Katarina Kresal. Mr. Matthew Raščan is the owner of these editions that go along with this story or walk until they infamously fail. Who was watching us from the cover of the magazine The Faces, across the street? Mr. Borut Pahor, Mrs. Katarina Kresal and so on. Mr Matej Raščan is mentioned in connection with these stories, in connection with the SDS ahead. What these gentlemen had and how they worked together was a second question. If they were doing things wrong and if they were in breach of the law, then it would be right for the authorities to identify these things and take appropriate action. I think, however, that the way in which the work is done and these findings resulting from this parliamentary inquiry were intended to dissuade the public from all these stories and to trouble the public with some kind of behaviour that it was not. On the one hand, a political attack on one of the political parties, and on the other hand, a diversion of public media attention from these things, which are actually problematic, but not of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but of your parties. So I think it was about something else in this case, and even today in the debates there was a very large amount of resentment, because these two media have somehow stirred up one part of this political fortune, especially on the elite political left, especially those who declare themselves left-wing, and every day they spend more than workers earn in the whole month, some spend even more every day than workers earn in a year. And it was a problem that the media also showed a real picture of those who were untouchable until then, who want to be Media-Inviolable and who want to regulate the media space in this country from political benches. And that's the problem. That's the problem. The problem is also that this commission of inquiry and these conclusions, which you will obviously adopt tomorrow, will crush those individuals who might ever wish to visit this closed space at any time in the future, because they will be crippled and incapacitated at the start, because every time something like this happens, it is quite clear that whoever wants to prevent these intentions will simply burn with these conclusions of this commission of inquiry and I think that there is no hero to go to this story. Another comparison was made here by Mrs Melita Župevc on the report of the Commission, which I led in the previous term. One of the key issues is that we had a substantial number of confidential data there, but the report was still public, in its entirety. In particular, the documents which remained closed were listed, but the report is fully public. When she read the conclusions of the committee, she read only one and somehow forgot to read the others. This third decision speaks out, and this has been adopted: "The National Assembly notes that, following irregularities and inequity, the purchase of light armoured wheeled vehicles 6 x 6 in connection with the sale of the company Systematic Technology in 2003 to Viator&Vektor and the leasing of the government aircraft Falcon, where the findings so far show that it is not only the political connections of the then main actors, the visible members of the LDS (mag. Anton Rop, then President of the Government, and Zdenko Pavček, the Viator&Vektor Group) and non-economic and political corruption, but because of the suspicion of illegality in the execution of these transactions, the National Assembly expects the competent authorities to investigate these matters accordingly." This was adopted at the end of the previous term. Do you think something happened, someone started some kind of investigation? This report was apparently the lowest in the drawers of these institutions, which should at least check these things. Why? I think it's because it's politically clearly written where these gentlemen belong. That's why. It is obvious that other investigative commissions will not complete their work. Please, this is one of the most perverse things that could have been heard here today. And who was the one who was currently being led by Mrs Eva Irgle to the investigative commission, one year of flaking under your feet, if not you? Everyone who was president has been replaced, despite the fact that you knew he had nothing to say to this committee as a witness. I won't be too long. I can only say that it is sad in some way that this ruling policy is not aware of the responsibility it has assumed three years ago, that it has still not left this virtual world in which it has lived for the last three years. Of course, it is dangerous that this investigation seriously interferes with freedom of speech, in freedom of the press and very dangerously threatens media pluralism and democracy. The publication of a list of journalists, which according to one political party or one political option to write critical articles on them, is a grave violation of human rights and a grave pressure on individual freedom, comparable to the totalitarian practices of intimidation of critical non-directional journalists at a time of unanimity. It has a dual purpose: to attack political opponents, in this case to attack the Slovenian Democratic Party, and secondly, most importantly, as I mentioned earlier, to anyone who dares to hack into the current media monopoly, it must already be clear in advance what awaits it – discreditation, criminalisation and so on. This commission of inquiry is in the face of media freedom, it means direct assault on media freedom and it wants to imply in the style of tested old methods that journalists are allowed to write only what the authorities want to hear or read about themselves. I think that it is also in some way an abuse of this institution of parliamentary control, because what is supposed to be found has not been found, at least from documents and testimonies it does not come to pass, but the conclusions go in the opposite direction. So it is no wonder that this left troika of Social Democrats, LDS and Zareza has lost people's confidence because instead of effectively running the country, he's been dealing with this imaginary affair for three years. There's something else that's interesting. In 2008, when freemen are supposed to come out and judging by what you have said, the SDS should then win brilliantly – of course not, you have won – from this point of view, gentlemen from the Social Democrats, LDS and Zares, to whom after this year's elections you will blame for your election defeat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kek, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Mr Černač said that another freeman should be examined, Good morning for example, but the SDS would not have found anything good there. We would find another way of illegally financing this party in local elections. In Good Morning, there is an interview with the director of the commune, who is one SDS candidate in the local elections, just before the elections, both on one side and on the other. To make the matter so important, this interview was, of course, paid by taxpayers, paid by the commune. After the elections, there were no more interviews. Only before the election did they show up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Thank you very much. A replica of the replica? Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I suggest, Madam President, that you set aside a few minutes of pause to get all the levers of the former freeman Good morning, so that we can count how many editions he appeared with a comprehensive interview and on the one hand Mr Gregor Golobič and the other gentlemen from the LDS and the Social Democrats, that we may then have at least a numerical comparison of who and which [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And the other gentlemen from LDS, I said. So which policy did this medium pay more attention to?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I can't accommodate your request, sir. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Anderlich, I called you earlier. You said you were quitting. Do you give the word to others or do I? Okay. But if he raised his hand, he would raise his hand, and when I called you, you did this, and I understood. Okay, next time, be more determined and let me give the word, not you. You have the floor, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Mr President, you announced the replica and I said that France has a replica. But before that, you announced Mr. Tank, which you then skipped in front of me. So you really need to look at what you have written or manipulate with you, as always with the leadership of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u114	No one manipulates me. I've got exactly what I've written. Follow the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u115	Go take a look at the magnetogram and you'll see what you've been predicting, but it's no big deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u116	Thank you. It's not fatal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u117	But it's because I obviously have to fight for my word. Yeah, it's a shame you let two media outlets go to waste, as you might say, Mr. Blackach. This is simply not nice, for if you followed what has already been said today and what is generally clear, it would be more than obvious that in the octopus that you wrote to others, at some point in time, you walked in on your own and networked you and was yesterday — or ever, I think it was yesterday — published in Del. There is probably no place here today to explain the conclusions of the final report and of the conclusions reached by the Commission because you feel in some way hurt. To say that you simply have nothing to do with this and that these are some media that, in the most democratic spirit, wrote what they thought was simply not true. If you had a wish for the truth, you would simply deny some of the things that were written there, and fenced yourself from things that were written, as you can understand, by people who were close to your circles, and all of them even led to the general headquarters of your client, who determined how to write it and how to finance it. It's just an illustration in yesterday's work, but you know from this report, and even more from your actions, what it was like. To say that this is an attack on independent media and journalists is truly hypocrisy. If we remember in this room, when she was still old, how did a top SDS representative then scream about the swan singing of journalists who didn't write, just as he thought they should write all the best about him. In these same rooms. It is no coincidence that the work of 571 journalists who advocated media freedom was widely condemned. What you explained to them at the time, and what you despised them. But you did not resent what our colleague Friday did when the Slovenians in Koroška fenced themselves against his lies and the pamphlets he published. He never fixed things. He published a book and lied. You haven't fenced yourself against the glues, you haven't fenced yourself from the fact that you've been proven to have falsely accused the president of the country in this Chamber and in the public. Only with the intention of discrediting. You don't care about that. The public has not been so very busy with the work of this Commission, but it is right to conclude its work in the end and to determine for what purpose these activities have been doing, what this project should have meant, whether it originated in accordance with the legislation, whether the public funds they have acquired for the right purposes have been used, and whether it has been possible to find specific holders of political functions in the background, and here it is certain that this is the case. When we talk about the media and the Ministry of Culture, we know who the Minister of Culture was. When we talk about general matters, we all know who led the policy of the day, and here I think you have indisputably in your hand where these paths led and who is politically involved and responsible. Therefore, it seems to me that you do not want to talk about the things that are on the table and that you should simply talk about, that is, whether it is something that is out of place in this Slovenian space, that it is wrong to spend public money on the political propaganda of that party who is then in power, as of course this is the case for the previous term, this is true of the present and the future. And if something is wrong with the regulation, if the rules are misapplied when it comes to the allocation of media balance funds, when it comes to the issue of media coverage for individual media and similar things, these are, of course, issues that need to be discussed in the National Assembly. So, do we have proper legal control, as well as the whole procedure, when it comes to calls, when it comes to the allocation of funds, and when it comes to controls at the end when the funds are spent? Of course, this intertwining of some matters is also on the route of churches — political parties. The various ecclesiastical economies whose representatives have openly acknowledged that they also support, by all means, a change in policy or a specific policy, which is only one and that right, and therefore even the funds going by taxpayers, are earmarked for loans, where of course we can say: Yes, this is a fair project, there is no other background here, but the media have failed. Yes, of course, it is not difficult to fail if those who want the media to come out provide money in the form of a loan that does not have to be returned and then say that they will simply let it go to waste, because it no longer benefits them. This is quite a perverse logic, and it would be wise to discuss whether it really is through all of these things that could have been read in the report, hit or not. As you say, these were the most democratic media for you, all the ads were paid fairly, the funding was purely transparent and in accordance with the laws, but obviously this is not the case and it was either a supplement or an extension of the pre-election campaign by illegal means or in a way that is not in accordance with the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u118	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor. Mr. Jože Tanko, I'd like to explain. You came to me earlier and asked me if you could be the last, so I crossed your last name and didn't say it before. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Mr Vice President, this is contrary to the rules of this house. Not one so far, according to my practice or my experience, was able to realize its desire in a way that came up and said, "I am written here, but can I discuss it a little later?" He could have been switched with someone. He hasn't changed. You said he asked if it could be the last one. It's not like that! It's not like that, and you know that you're with this. It's possible that you've been written like that. It's also right, because I believe that most of the things they do back there, often things like this happen, but until now, it's never happened that anyone would come for a pay phone or to you and say that they would be the last. [[…]] It's understandable that I'd like to be the last person to respond to everyone, but it clearly says here when it's their turn. And you didn't say, instead of Tank discussing this one and this one, Tank will be instead of someone else. There's never been one before. Pure abuse. Or have you been confused by what I believe and apologize if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. No one has confused me, but I would like Mr Tanko to explain. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. I give you my word to explain this complication.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me this opportunity. I joined the debate instead of Mr Grims, who had previously discussed rather than Mr Zorn as the first among our own.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We're gonna stop this. I have done as I have done many times in this Chamber, not just me, but all the presiding officers. Mr Tanko came to me and asked if he could move him from where he was written instead of Mr Mag. A Grimes who won't discuss it. I did it, and I did it right. Thank you very much. Carry on, Mr. Tanko. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I believe that you have acted in accordance with current practice in previous, previous and all other mandates. Mr Anderlič has also been classified many times or transferred in such a way. First of all, I would like to comment on a statement by the President of this investigative commission, who said that she was proud that this investigative committee had in some way ended prematurely because she had cancelled all further hearings. She can be proud. She can also be proud of the government's term of office, which ended prematurely. Everything goes into the context and the quality of this rule can also be linked to the quality of the conduct of the investigative commission and the preparation of this report. Initially, we wanted the report body to become public in those parts where this is permissible, and this is extremely large, as said by counterpart Cernač, only about 5% of the content of this investigative commission report deserves a code of confidentiality because it is tax confidentiality, banking secrecy, because it is business secrecy because it is personal data. Everything else is public and has also been obtained at public meetings. We wanted to see what was the next conclusion from this body that was written in the investigation commission's report. There are six findings written, and this is then converted or completed into four conclusions. The manipulation, Madam President, is complete because the Commission has stated that the National Assembly takes decisions and conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. The problem is that the findings are not public, as stated in this part and the conclusions are public. So this commission has done something that no commission has ever done before. No one's ever done this thing like that before. Madam President of this commission of inquiry said that she had heard 24 witnesses. It's them. However, 38 hearings were conducted with these 24 Witnesses. Two hearings were closed, some of them closed, and all the other hearings were public. And interestingly enough, public hearings are not recorded in the public part of the report, but in secret. This is done only to hide matters, to lose context, to trace them during hearings, between conclusions and conclusions, and to then be manipulated in the manner that was manipulated in today's session. I can tell you that the only official who was a witness was recorded as a magician. Andrej Vizjak, a member of our parliamentary group. This gentleman on this committee has not been questioned. He wasn't interrogated. Therefore, this Commission also has such difficulties in writing clear conclusions and conclusions on the responsibility of public function holders. How can he figure it out? From where? We need to find that the work of this commission of inquiry is conceived in a way similar to that of Patria, somewhere some conjecture, which is then spelled out, implied and then written in the form of a conclusion. That is the essence of this content of this commission of inquiry. The other thing is – and here is one curiosity – that only members of coalition parties worked in this commission of inquiry. And despite the fact that only coalition party members worked in this commission of inquiry, a tremendous amount of this material, which is now marked by a degree of confidentiality, has gone to some media, especially to Youth and some daily newspapers. How was it that these confidential documents were leaking into the daily newspapers without anyone from any coalition party present in this mandate, even after access, they did not look at these documents? I would like to know whether any investigation by the tax office has been determined on this matter or whether an investigation by an information officer or any other matter has been determined. All of this is a public circulation in the media, and here you write something in a booklet and you put a degree of confidentiality up there. Don't you find that strange? The level of confidentiality! And then all those who have discussed these "quasi" confidential data, quote on a little detail all the amounts that have been recorded and marked with a degree of confidentiality in this report. That's interesting. You're talking about some of the freebies or election materials. Indeed, with a hand in hand was an electoral flyer, an electoral newspaper, as we call it, a candidate for the President of the Republic – Mrs Melita Župevc was then probably a press representative of this candidacy – but this ballot, this flyer, this freeman was not misled among those documents that went to the Court of Auditors. And the Court of Auditors has not revised the costs of this freeman. Why he has not been brought before the Court of Auditors with all due care, as you now speak here, is a question for Mrs Župevc, who led such a vehement and illustrative inquiry commission. Why? And now those who talk about it, about all possible hints and such matters, do not disclose or carry out procedures in matters in which you have been directly involved. I have another freebie in front of me, this is Info citizen, a free newspaper that comes out in 12,000 copies. It was released in July 2010. Much of this Info citizen is dedicated to Mr Bojan Kontic. I want to know how much was calculated in this Info citizen for this ad and for these ads that are written here. It's a freebie. He's probably getting paid by the Municipality of Velenje, maybe someone else. This was published in July 2010. My friend Friday, you put 3,000 here on the cross. And he paid a thousand 200 euros, proveable, with an account. In this freebie, 12,000 copies, Mr. Kontic, not a word. Tell me, how much did he pay for getting 12 or how many posts in one number? Very much. In short, for some privileged position that everyone avoids. The same is true of other free people. Good morning is also in this context. A bunch of posts. This is where you're talking about Raštan and his work magazines. You know, to a large extent, the owner is responsible for the business success of a project. To a large extent also the editor and editorial policy and articles in these media. If these editions, Jana, Faces and so on, are not commercial, they may not be able to deal with any good results. I don't understand all those who deal with the media to direct all your anger only to Mr. Raszczan. He may be responsible, he may be guilty, but the media was created by journalists and editors, but not Mr Raščan, he was only the owner, and you deny him that he was not the owner. As we look forward to these things, I hope you will also investigate this decision of the Triglav Insurance Company, to pour on the Stožice and advertise for 500 000 euros there. Mr, who is the director of the insurance company, said to be a member of the Social Democrats, took place in the mandate of this government, in the mandate of this mayor, who is also now running – or will run – in one way or another in these state-run elections. I want to know what's going on with this story, how it covers and falls into this context of these advertisements, free of charge. That's where they take pictures of people who somehow seduced this story. Interesting stories. And in fact, no one's reacting to anything at all. You have all said a great deal about the Slovenian Democratic Party and how to participate. Except for some clues that your Members have packed for logical conclusions, you have not offered any evidence. Nothing. Nothing at all. You're saying there was someone in the background. Who's supposed to be, we don't know. You did not attach one document. There is no single document for this in the report of the Investigative Commission. There's not one document! Just some logical conclusions from Levanič and Župevčevčev, Slapnik and so on. Interesting. On the basis of logical or imaginary conclusions, imaginary clues, and so forth, many things can be done, many accused, many destroyed. And this investigation committee's project on freebies is designed to destroy someone. Not to find out the facts without the evidence being presented, but to destroy someone. The Slovenian Democratic Party is not an official. He's not an officer. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to investigate political responsibility. The Slovenian Democratic Party is not an official. I don't think you've done yourself any such stories. I don't know what bear service to what you'd like to achieve. Interestingly, on 19 September, you had a press conference of four members of the commission of inquiry, two of them not even discussing today. Mr Levanic did not say a word today, Mr Miran Jerič said not a word. At a press conference on 19 September, these two gentlemen said that 90% of the report contained 10% of the logical conclusions. We can't really because you marked them with a degree of confidentiality, even though all Slovenian media have already written about them, about different schemes and so on, about some apparent flow of financial resources and so on. But these facts cannot be reached and cannot be seen in the report. Even those who have been questioned cannot see it. However, I do not understand why the sign of confidentiality is logical and I would like to know which of these four conclusions you have presented are the product of logical conclusions and not facts. That's the point. Which of these four conclusions did you present bear fruit from these logical conclusions? I'd like to know that, Mrs. Zupevc, very precisely. Is this the first decision, or is this the second decision, by which you intervene and assess the editorial policy of the freeman? This is a great deal of everything to evaluate this editorial policy of the freeman and so on. Is that a third conclusion or is that a fourth conclusion? Which conclusion is the product of logical conclusions? It's probably all you wrote in this part, the product of logical conclusions, that's the fruit of the goal you set yourself and then you tried to put it back together and you didn't get it. And that's why you wrote it that way, you put it that way, and now you're selling it as some kind of great achievement. It's a fiction you have written here. And until you withdraw your degree of confidentiality, it's actually a fabrication. All those who have read the report say that this is also true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." A parishioner as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And until Mr Jože Tanko reads this report, he is unworthy to speak of it at all. A good year and a half ago, when we set up this commission of inquiry, we were the essence of two – it turned out to be one project – pre-election freemen, these were the Slovenian Week and Express, wrought in ten points. Political discredit, secret bots, secret financiers, secret writers, advertisers, excesses, abuse of media legislation, abuse of electoral legislation, misuse of ethical criteria of public expression and abuse of political influence. After a year and a half, the facts are as follows: that the Slovenian weekly and Express were established and issued to influence the election of members of the National Assembly in 2008; that, through disqualification of political competitors, the leading parties of the then ruling coalition were used, read: SDS, read: President Janez Janša, read: Prime Minister Janez Janša; and lastly, cover up pre-election propaganda or campaign and disputed financing of political parties. The fact that in this case there was a way of carrying out a negative campaign beyond the existing legislation. Law on Media, Law on Political Parties, Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. And since the current legislation of such anomalies still does not prevent them in a sufficiently effective way, we propose that they approach legal changes. And so on My colleague Han said one really plastic case earlier, and I'm going to do it again. If the contribution for the article in the Slovenian Week came from the local SDS committee, it really can't be any proof that this party has anything to do with this freeman, can it? The article came from the SDS, they wrote it and said: No, you did not get enough of this political opponent, give it even more. Indeed, there is no evidence that this was an SDS project. I really don't. I'd be blushing if I had an argument like yours. But you don't, because it's your political culture and the way you talk to your political competitors. And keep going. In this story, there were undoubtedly small and large actors, important and irrelevant, but each of them formed part of a story that, in my opinion and in the opinion of the commission of inquiry, must no longer be repeated. It is that before each election, we will witness such a system as we have witnessed before the last elections, so that anyone who has an influence that has money can discredit anyone who is on the way to his political appetites. You wanted to speak out loud. You have a problem with our consistent respect for the law and our consistent respect for the rules of procedure. What do you want to talk about out loud? About the fact that there is no party in the Slovenian political space who would have the privilege of advertising free of charge during the election campaign? Would you like to talk about it? I'd love to. I'd love to. We can talk for hours, we can talk about other concrete people, with names and surnames, about concrete transactions, and we can talk about it. No problem. But when the session was closed, you didn't want to talk about it. You want to point out to others before the Slovenian public: Look at them, look at him, but you don't want to talk about what you've been doing and it's just political duality. You who start today, 11. Ten. 2011 to power, you do not overcome the basic political culture. It's to sweep the front of your own doorstep first and then point to others. The Commission of Inquiry shall give four conclusions to the National Assembly in its proposal. The first conclusion is that some, on the other hand, are the most insidious, but essentially summarises the essence of the whole part of the Commission of Inquiry, namely that the National Assembly accepts the findings of the Commission of Inquiry. Members of the National Assembly can read them at any time, if that is what they want. Most of them didn't want to read it because they didn't care what it says. It's easier to speak out loud, to slander, to tell lies than to speak on the basis of facts. And when you talk about the plurality of Slovenian media space, that's such a nice word, but when politicians are so aggressively defending a media project, you wonder why. As a politician, you're never gonna hear me judge specific journalistic work. Never. Also because I was a journalist myself. And the same people, or those who come from the media, whose writers have also participated in these two famous freebies, have written so many lies about me as the president of the commission of inquiry in the last year, and the pattern has been the same. I didn't have a chance of response because these media don't respect the right to remedy, they don't care. Because the same media has so many lawsuits in court, so many lawsuits, they don't care. Yes, and this is also a Slovenian media space. And it is more than obvious that you created part of the Slovenian media space, which is why you are so determined to defend it. As I must say, we have done our work properly, and I am sure of that. I thank all my fellow Members who have expressed their interest in participating in this investigative committee. Some of them, of course, did not want to do this, but then they wanted to wait for us at the last corner and kick us off the road, unfortunately it was too late and your sincere intention to participate in the investigative commission was not to believe. As once said, thank your colleagues for their cooperation. We give these four conclusions to the National Assembly in our proposal, and I expect the National Assembly to confirm them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u128	Thank you very much. As the amendments to the draft decisions have not been tabled, I conclude the debate. The National Assembly will vote on the proposals for decisions submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Inquiry tomorrow, 12 October 2011, as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under a long-term loan of EUR 440 million, which is leased by a thermal electricity bill, D. O. O., under the European Investment Bank for the financing of the project for the establishment of a complementary block of 6 600 MW in thermal electricity in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 31 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Bojan Kontic. The bill is being proposed at the 31st session of the 30th. 9. 2011 and 5. Ten. 2011 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS Group are among the co-signers of the proposal for the Law on guarantee of TES. This, of course, also means that we supported the proposal of the law at first reading. We decided to take this step primarily because we were afraid that if this bill did not receive majority support, there would be a significant incentive for the project or, in the worst case, even the cancellation of loan contracts and consequently the loss of TES 6 with a power of 600 MW. This would certainly result in longer-term economic and social consequences, as TES already represents a central social security guard as one of the largest employees in the Savina and Shaleska Valley. As stated in the explanation of the bill, banks participating in the project may withdraw the credits or guarantees already provided in the event of failure to issue the guarantee. The bill did not receive sufficient support on the home labour body, which means that the legislative procedure has been completed. The consequences of the collapse of the bill cannot be guaranteed. Some threaten with millions of damages, others welcome this move, if we have managed to stop this huge and expensive project. In the Desus Group, we do not hope to predict the consequences of the collapse of the bill. However, we hope that it will not result in our country or Slovenian taxpayers paying instead of an investor. However, in the DeSUS Group, we regret that such an important energy project has been born into a cross-accounting area between some political parties and the measurement of power, who will be who and who will benefit more or less at the expense of the TES 6 project. Members of the DeSUS want and demand that the new government, whatever it may be, fundamentally revises the investment of TEŠ 6, in the interests of the investor and in the interests of the Slovenes and Slovenes, us, taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u130	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's hard to talk today about everything we haven't talked about in at least the last three years, in fact, at least in the last seven years, when there was one structure in power, SDS, today there is another structure, SD. In the draft proposal of the National Energy Programme, if you take a good look at it, which was coming years and years ago, TES 6 has already been defined as TES 6 as acquisition, and there have also been options for what to do without TES 6 – a nuclear power plant two, a gas power plant without TES and so on. And I'm asking all my colleagues and the media and the people to understand what we're saying, as it is. If this project had its objective and purpose, as defined in the National Energy Programme, if it had its own real path, today there would be no doubt about this project and it would have been peacefully built or not discussed at all. The roads that were covered were strange. However, if the project is defined in the NEP, it is known that for this project, which also received credits - this is the strangest, the project got credit -if it got credits, it was clear that such a amount of credit would require a guarantee. But the guarantee application wasn't until yesterday. The second time that we talked about the EFSF guarantee in the National Assembly about 14 days or three weeks ago, there was a whole Government that was doing business, but they were all here, all of them, with Pahor at the head, who begged all of us and you: Please accept the EFSF guarantee. They were all here in a row. When it was two days later for Slovenia, for the guarantee of TES 6, for 400 and a few million more, it was an empty space. It's empty. We told our mother's working body that we should take things on a regular basis. No, at the meeting of the home working body, Mrs Kamnareva, Secretary-General, just before today, promised that we would receive an opinion from the Government at the meeting convened for TES 6. We are worthy of Members and Members because we have not received this opinion! And we are worthy of figs because the government did not seem to come to beg and pray for Slovenia and for the Slovenian company. However, they find it worth begging for the EFSF. With everything listed, tell me who would be, at least I won't be stupid enough to say yes. And finally, I'm gonna tell my story. I come from Zasavje, I know that I am the third Member of all Slovenians and Slovenians, and I must represent the interests of all. But on account of such a way of working they will destroy the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which had to go to a referendum where it fell and is not in the National Energy Programme today, so it will be terminated, closed and locked, at the expense of TES 6, because I am not crazy that I and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party would, in all the procedures that I have now taken to heart that I am not talking about others, say yes. But it's not Barovich's fault, SNS, and all those against it, but it's the government's fault that she didn't conduct the proceedings as well as she could. The former one who started the process, and the one who had enough time and opportunities to tell me we have our own energy. They should take the blame for 100 percent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I must say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, we regret that the investment that is important and energy-intensive for Slovenia has not started or continued as it would be necessary and that all that we have missed, of course, will have to be rectified. We personally doubt in the club that an investment has already begun, which is already being built to stop or to stop. The simple facts are also that Slovenia still needs electricity to give some thought, warn environmental NGOs and that it is time to breathe fresh air and then decide. There was one chance. Further tests show that the November date we are late was not decisive, not the last, not the only. The date of mid-March is mentioned when the new government will have to make a decision, and I am sure that the guarantee will also be granted. At that time, they will probably regret that these decisions were not taken at that time because the work of responsibility and the work of guilt could be relieved, but after the first signature, after the first enthusiasm, the opposition withdrew their support. The theory of withdrawal is, of course, more. Some feared that the Law on TES and the Guarantee would be a first-class pre-election theme, for some even referendum themes, but of course it will be confirmed by time. The fact is that in Slovenia we need to focus on alternative sources, but there is still a long time before alternative sources can replace those conventional ones. We do not have Slovenia and Slovenians of oil, but it is probably economically justified, in an environmentally acceptable manner, and with the appropriate high and advanced technologies that we have natural and stocked, that we should also benefit from. I am sure that those who will succeed us in the National Assembly, as well as the pension reform and the intervention law, also have completely different, completely better solutions for TES and may remember the time when we all had the opportunity and the opportunity to save them in this round room, to finish and finish. This did not happen, of course, the responsibility is clear, our responsibility is shared, but in particular we must try to make sure that this project, which is, after running, after the beginning and beyond, some cases of bad practice, in Slovenia we also successfully upgrade, upgrade and finish, because this moment is not with us and not in the world I do not know the case that would have spent as an investment already so much tax money to be able to stop it. Of course, we regret, as in the Group of Members, the situation in which we are in. Surely the government that is saying good-bye, the government that started the project, has responsibility. The future government will also be responsible, and above all, there is an enormous responsibility here for the two economic ministers who have promised us in this mandate to speak much, but there has been little struggle from their words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SD Group, Mr Anton Kolarič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! As it appears, the debate on the guarantee for the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj is now nearing its end in the National Assembly, but this does not mean the end of the project, as it is likely that, due to the urgency and importance of the energy image of Slovenia, it will continue and will be revived with a slight delay. In the Social Democrats Group, we are most disappointed by the decision taken by the Committee on Finance. We are aware that the only change made by this decision will be that the project will be significantly undermined and will, of course, result in a higher price of electricity for consumers in the future. To all of us, even to our fellow Members who have led to this decision, I place it on my soul to assess within a few years the situation which has led to their decision and then, of course, post-festums, to think critically about their move. I do not want to predict the future, but I am almost certain that most will regret this decision. However, I can still say, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group without any bitterness in my mouth, that we stand for the energy self-sustainment of Slovenia and advocate for the highest possible security of electricity supply, which means that we still support the TES6 project in the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u136	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Mag will present the position. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Your Honor! The project of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant began during the period of the merger, when electricity prices and electricity consumption continued to rise. It was suggested that if these trends move forward, reliable care in Slovenia will soon be compromised and therefore block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium was identified as one of the few projects that could be implemented in a relatively short time and which would also combine more synergies, i.e. jobs and the like. When 2008 and the collapse or start of the economic crisis, there was also a time when we could reconsider this project, as consumption fell by 20% in a moment, prices fell by half, and other situations arose. At that time, some in this National Assembly and also in the Strategic Council with the energy of the outgoing Prime Minister have proposed that we reconsider this project. That didn't happen. In particular, the project continued due to the magnitude of the then Minister of Economy of the Party of Zares. Construction was accelerated and later, probably also because of this project, the former Minister of Economy had left the government and the Minister’s post of Minister of State, the Secretary of State had also been publicly politicised, and I believe that she had already been politicized within the Zares party. I would like to point out that the project actually continued smoothly during this period of three years of this government, it was actually running, it was building, it was ordering equipment, contracts were signed, it was paying for equipment delivered, while a lot of words and paper happened on a political level, both within individual coalition parties and among the parties to the ruling coalition. So a lot of wind, the project went on, it was exasperating, it got extremely irritable during this period for a number of reasons, and especially for reasons of politicisation. So when he came to the National Assembly to propose a bill of guarantee for the construction of the block, which I also co-signed, this decision was actually the last, final and only decision to be drawn up by the National Assembly on this project. In fact, this politicisation of the project was demonstrated in the full light through opposition to this project by some parliamentary or one key parliamentary party, as well as some of the new movements of the current parties, who also wanted to use this project for pre-election purposes, were threatened by a referendum and could have done so. It could happen that, following the adoption of this law in the National Assembly, there would be a call for a referendum and, in all likelihood, according to public opinion polls, such a referendum would also fall. This would be the last nail in the coffin of this project, because I believe that continuing with such uncertain financial coverage of the project would be very questionable. Therefore, some Members have proposed that the decision on this guarantee should wait for a new government, not least to check the new government's numbers too, as it will have to provide the guarantee quota and the guarantees at last; to find those responsible for encouraging this project and to ensure that this project is optimally completed. The impossibility, recklessly, of a project in the middle of construction, when already EUR 600 million has been spent on it, would be pointless to stop, freeze or otherwise not continue to build. That would be the most expensive thing in the given situation, according to our estimate. Nor is it true that there will be no damage if the decision on this project is withdrawn at an acceptable time, as the statements made by Mr Rob, who plays an important role in the European Investment Bank, show that this bank can also wait with this guarantee to grant credit. It is probably also with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as well as with the equipment supplier itself, the French state company Alstom. In short, we believe that it is most rational and cost-effective for taxpayers' money to wait for this project with this guarantee at a not-so-heated allowable time, and that, at that time, this guarantee is, of course, approved when examining the financial backgrounds and incentives.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u138	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Mr Franco Juri will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Indeed, the position of the Group was clear from the outset. Unfortunately, some parties have behaved extremely inconsistently and irresponsibly. After re-discovering in the general debate the famous letter from esteemed colleague Visiak Borut Pahori in 2009, when he bought a salad of mortals and actually burned the supporters of TER 6 with very juicy expressions, we experienced such a salad of mortal here again, first with the signature of SDS Members of the request for an extraordinary guarantee meeting, and then with a new salad they morted when they left the boat, as they felt it did not bring them any special points before the elections. Congratulations on such consistency. Indeed, the party has always been consistent on this issue. So consistent that she even accepted a split inside the client. Because that Minister of Economy, who allowed the project to grow from 26 million to 400 million, left this party at the point of the biggest disconnection, that is TES 6. We are a sustainable and committed party. And it's consistently sustainable. And we have always warned that this project, which is the most expensive thermal power plant in Europe – a billion 400, if not more – will require much more policy attention in the future. First of all, because we are abandoning the sustainable direction that everyone would expect because we are stubbornly moving forward on the path of unsustainable solutions that are very expensive for the pockets of taxpayers. And it is precisely because of the 400 million that have already been lost that we believe that all investigative commissions in this National Assembly would need one investigative commission to undertake the first observations, the beginnings of this story and the continuation. Why we have reached 400 million without transparent calls and public procurement, all of which, for the first time, only Minister Darja Radic has made a very clear statement. Before that, it was fog. The fog of large lobbyes, which have served a great deal on this project, would move the project forward in agreement with the biggest customers in Slovenia, including the SDS, which is the real and first-ever of this project. In the end, it would likely prove why and who served at the expense of the health and environment of the next generation. 50 years of mortgages will set these generations, 50 years of limitation or even prevention of new sustainable plans, because we will have to pay this debt. We'll never cover this black hole. If the party really is in this Parliament, and we will be in the next Parliament, in the new mandate, one of the first requirements will be the inquiry commission on TES 6 because we want to get to the end. Why, when did it begin, who served, and why did we come to such an astronomical price? We are only pleased that the guarantee law did not go through in such an easy way, even through all established procedures, and that we will finally be able to take the time and in the next term dissect this largest financial and ecological breakdown of an independent Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u140	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Hello, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! The TES 6 project is the largest project in our country in the last term when we are talking about state projects or state-owned projects. The project, which was adopted in 2006, 2007, 2008 was truly signed at a time of great economics, when electricity was very expensive, when electricity manoeuvring throughout Europe was large when raw materials were also at the highest price level, as it was at the end of 2008. At that time, a reservation contract for the construction of this mega project was signed. When the financial crisis took place, and when the energy package was adopted in the European space, in January 2009, I said at one of the first meetings, I asked a question from the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, and I finally obtained enough votes to have a debate on the question of the TEM 6 issue in the National Assembly. The question and the debate went in this direction whether, due to the new circumstances when prices fell, when consumption fell and when the energy package was adopted, the project should be reconsidered and negotiations should be opened, as the prices of raw materials and also of procurement have fallen dramatically in this area. At that time, in my profound belief, a very large error was made by the Government, which on the one hand, due to differences within the various parties and because of the various views of ministers, which also took place on the public stage, allowed two. On the one hand, that the written treatment of this project was not determined whether the project was appropriate for continuation or whether the prices for which this transaction was also agreed were appropriate. On the other hand, it allowed the project to be carried out in nature. When the project was further encouraged by the need for the State guarantee, and the country did not respond to this issue for three years, and at the end of the term, which is now concluded prematurely, we Members addressed this issue in the form of a parliamentary law, and there was no individual in the benches where the government should sit. That is why it is also such a chaotic situation in this project that we have more than 400 million spent money, accounts that will have to be settled over the next six months for about this amount, are said to be for the new 400 million, and that there is also a balance of the account, given that all transactions are negotiated. As a committee as confusing as the Government has treated this area, in its previous session it has not taken a decision, today we have this situation to learn that the country has not been able to determine in four years before this project that we have a few options. I don't know if investors will succeed, called Holding Slovenian Power Plants and also TES, to attract any private investors at this stage and then there should be no State guarantee. Otherwise, we will meet again in Parliament with this guarantee law. In some ways, it is also strange that environmental movements have also awakened and in some ways clearly pointed to this project only towards the end, when the State guarantee is accepted, but not when the project is fully launched. In the future, I wish and hope that this project and the whole country will have a more responsible government, which will be able to define itself for this project, say yes or no, both are possible answers, and if it says yes, it will probably be necessary to go before the new Parliament and identify itself as a state guarantee, or have private capital entered into the project. Otherwise, there is certainly a very large economic damage on the one hand and, on the other hand, a large social time bomb in the Shaleska Valley, which is largely dependent on mining itself and also on electricity production. Regrettably, the procedure was carried out by means of a method of execution which, in this procedure, came upon the intestines through which it could not come at the moment. However, I am afraid, as I have already said in the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group at first reading, that this can also be a model by which large projects will be placed in the future and that in this way all these projects will also be threatened in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are appalled at the whole project's process and we have a calm conscience because we first warned about the traps of this project, but unfortunately those responsible for the country in this mandate have not heard that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road transport rules within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill to Mr Mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! With the Road Traffic Rules Act, on a proposal from the Government, we have also prescribed excessively high fines for minor or minor offences. And this law has, in fact, shown in practice, that we have actually exaggerated with these solutions. I think we need to take a step back. We need to take a step back mainly in the area of punishing those minor offences which do not in their own way constitute a threat to the safety of other actors in transport and are often used only to fill the budget. Many events in practice show that provisions and some purpose of punishment in terms of ensuring greater traffic security are used as an incassant principle and are probably not far from the truth that some within the police or the ministry also have instructions to go around and pick up citizens with a criminal policy to fill the budget or to mitigate the consequences of the government's inability to ensure financial stability in the country. And that even those citizens who commit road traffic offences from the case to the case are the scapegoats who collect everything they actually have. Usually those most disadvantaged or those with the lowest income are the most affected. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we have decided to take a step in terms of easing this excessive criminal policy and we propose, in sports terms, a yellow and red card for minor offences. Therefore, if a road traffic participant commits an offence, and in doing so, I stress and underline, it does not endanger the safety of other participants and the safety of traffic in general, it is reminded. He shall not be fined and punished, but shall be admonished, and if he commits such an offence again within one year, he shall also be fined. So first he gets the so-called yellow card and then he gets the fine. What kind of misdemeanors are we talking about? These are offences in which a police officer who has recently some knowledge of this area also assesses that he is not in danger of security or causing no harm. I'm going to count, say, three cases of misdemeanours that we believe can meet these conditions. The first one must be the seat belt. It's 120 euros. It is 120 euros, which is a minimum wage, which can also be a heavy burden on low pensions. Let's say we use the phone. After all, they are speeding up to 10 or 20 kilometers [10 or 20 km]. I can give you an example. It must be very dangerous to exceed speed in some area of calm traffic, such as in front of schools, kindergartens, at a time when children are actually there. However, the big question is whether an increase of up to 10 kilometers per hour on Saturdays when there are no children, when in fact there is no function for which traffic is calmed, is the same punishment. Many times it is punished, and I think it is right to give a reminder in such a case. A huge difference between what we are proposing and what we are warning is that a reminder must be given in the reminder, without a policeman having discretion, whether to give a warning or otherwise punish. Of course, we also propose these pardons for speeding up to 20 kilometers in the village. Radars, for example, are very popular in the "inhabitation" board, where there is actually no security threat or anything like that. In short, we want to make this marriage a little more friendly to people and at the same time respect road safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u145	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I may begin where the proposal is now completed. The law is kind to people, especially to weaker participants. However, he is not friendly to those who violate road traffic regulations that drive drunk or drive faster. Here is the main part of the increased penalties, and therefore I see no special need to reduce their penalties. I just don't. On 1 July, new road safety laws were introduced which systematically regulate the areas of traffic rules, motor vehicles, drivers and roads and produced the expected results for the first months of their application. The number of accidents and, most importantly, the number of deaths due to accidents has decreased. These are, in particular, the results of the joint work of all preventive and repressive authorities and the high media attention which has been encouraged by substantive changes, as well as higher fines and sanctions. With the truly important news provided by the amended Offences Act, preventive programmes from health checks to rehabilitation programmes and safe driving exercises can also be implemented as of 1 October, allowing drivers to change their behaviour. For those drivers who commit minor offences, voluntary participation in programmes that in most cases have an impact on positive behavioural changes and for worse infringements is provided for compulsory participation in health checks and relevant programmes to be determined by the profession. Why am I repeating the facts that you are well aware of, because a few months ago, after a thorough public debate and a broad professional debate in the State Dent, you were the ones who confirmed these laws? I speak because such system-based laws, which are yet to be applied, should still be so well-intentioned, do not change as long as they produce positive results. The message we give to participants in transport, in particular to the weakest and most vulnerable, must be simple and clear, in order to ensure the highest possible level of security. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act, tabled by a group of Members, contrary to the above-mentioned expectations of interference with the substance of the Road Traffic Rules Act, in such a way as to introduce into it regulations falling within the Law in Offences and to substantially amend the procedures currently in force. The purpose and content of the Road Traffic Rules Act is not to determine the types of sanctions and to address the substance of the Offences Act, but rather to lay down traffic rules. The Road Traffic Rules Act lays down the amount of the fine and the penalty point for individual infringements of traffic rules and cannot establish a new, different system as foreseen by the Offences Act. Prescription of offences and sanctions. It is the substance of the Offences Act, which lays down general conditions for the regulation of offences and sanctions for them, the general conditions for liability for offences, the imposition and enforcement of penalties for offences, the procedures for offences, and the authorities and courts for deciding offences, and which are listed in taxis, such as fines, reminders, criminal points, prohibition of driving, expulsion of aliens from the country, seizure of items and so on. In accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on Offences, only a warning may be given on the terms and manner laid down in the law instead of the imposition of the infringement procedure or the issuing of the decision on the offence. So what's been said before doesn't hold. If someone doesn't tie himself to the seat belt, the police can only warn him today. Yes, you can! The regulation, as envisaged by the bill tabled by the Group of Members and Members, would significantly affect the substance of the Road Traffic Rules Act and create a new practice that would be non-systemic from the point of view of the user constitutes less legal certainty, inadequate regulation of the payment of half the amount of fines imposed and warnings in the law that governs only road traffic rules. In addition to this systemic unacceptable change, any changes would symbolically indicate that we are no longer taking such serious changes in road safety and that we are opening up opportunities to follow the old ones. For reasons, they are so determined that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendments and proposes not to support the law. Allow me to say in the end only that I understand that these penalties can be too burdensome for someone, but here we must then take a step forward, not by reducing the penalty, but by adapting the penalty to the individual, but not by starting to reduce the penalties globally now. Those who have lost relatives in traffic accidents know just how important it is to respect these rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Ms Mag will present the position. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposers made a meaningful and realistic presentation of where and why certain penalties are immensely high and, in particular, inappropriate to achieve the objectives pursued by the Government when it submitted the current Road Traffic Rules Act to Parliament. Even then, experts have warned that following the desired objective will not be possible. Statistics show they were right. The penalties prescribed are non-life, for example, four times higher than in Austria. In the law in force, we cannot go beyond the fact that it has been accepted as filled state treasury at the expense of a weaker population which, in most cases, is threatened by the sentence of existence. This is considered inadmissible by the Slovenian National Party. The introduction of an institute of expression warns instead of fines for small offences that do not directly endanger road safety and do not cause harmful traffic consequences in the first time committed, we support the Slovenian National Party's Group in its first time. With this soft hand, we help to raise drivers more effectively, contrary to the use of ruthless repression. However, if the participant commits the offence again, the prescribed fine shall be imposed. At the same time, the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act also makes it possible to pay half the fine within 30 days. In view of the global crisis that prevails in our country, this is a fair way of implementing the law both for the state and for the citizens. We will therefore support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u148	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Mr Mag will present the position. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A friendly greeting to the outgoing minister and his professional associate! We talked a lot today about yellow and red cardboard. I am sure that the law will get red today, especially because of the human lives, the deaths and the disabled are not to be mocked by the collection of political points. Surely the punishment of each and every one of us, and most of all those who are hard to live and earn, is hurt, but all of this is nothing compared to a tragedy, causing death and survival. People like that who have a conscience don't have much in life anymore. The security issue in Slovenia, including the number of victims, has improved significantly in this country in the last year, and therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we oppose the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, after which a warning would be given for the so-called small road traffic offences in the first time committed instead of the fine. For statistics teach us that there are many, many returnees, not once or twice, but ten times, twenty times, thirty times. For them, of course, such a measure would be no solution, no prevention. The proposal is attractive and we understand it mainly in the context of the upcoming elections, but it does not withstand serious professional judgement, but we are waiting, of course, because time is short, even the elimination of vignettes, taxes, bills and so on. According to the new legislation, which has brought, in particular, more severe penalties for driving too quickly under the influence of alcohol and driving in the opposite direction this year, it was a professional and comparatively justified change of the entire transport and safety system in our country. At the same time, the new legislation is also the product of numerous discussions with victims of traffic accidents, NGOs that have highlighted the country's underresponsibility in reducing victims of traffic accidents. Slovenia was still with 214 dead on the road on the tail of the Member States of the European Union in 2008. Some major traffic accidents, traffic on the opposite side of the road, speeding, extremely fast driving, driving under the influence of alcohol, have raised a number of questions, particularly how to remove alcoholic drivers from the road and how to act effectively against the perpetrators. It is important that the new legislation is not only repressive, as it also allows, for example, the suspension of the expiry of the driving licence under certain conditions. The Court may thus order the speed-based driver to carry out an additional safety training programme and those who have been alcoholised, for example, may require the carrying out of a health check and the inclusion in as many as three rehabilitation health programmes. This means that a driver dependent on alcohol will have to be treated if he wishes to delay the validity of the driving licence. Judging by the solutions provided for in this proposal of the law and if the government is again led by the SDS party in the next term, we can look forward to a repeat of the populist pattern set out in the mandate 2004-2008. According to the current Minister of the Interior, "the most severe offences which are the most common causes of accidents and the most serious violations are punishable, while the police carry out warnings in other offences and there has been a reduction in the number of persons who have been punished". Such dry criminal statistics, but victims, lit candles by roads and burial sites, prove otherwise that there was no result and that it was not a real policy. The designation of the new law for the Incassance Act is offensive. Even and especially to all those who lost their innocent relatives in traffic accidents or their innocent family members after traffic accidents remained disabled. In doing so, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to stress once again that this is a highly populist and pre-eminent intervention in barely adopted legislation, which represents a complex system of road safety, despite the professional opinion, that we do not mention that only the legal and systemic text has collapsed and is not in line with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. In recent years, transport security has taken an important step forward and this year, the number of road deaths is so that we have moved from the tail of European countries to the centre of statistics that the mitigation of the penal system would be a completely wrong message to road users. Applicants also point to the financial capacity of violators. This problem and dilemma hold and exist, and, of course, keep silent that the new legislation threatened fines for minor offences, for those irrelevant ones, by this law that is being amended today, has been reduced. What I would like to point out in the end, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is the simple fact that by calm, safe, patient and cautious driving each of us can avoid any punishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Posedel will present his position on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We will, as usual, vote differently in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, each of us in his/her belief as to how this bill should be decided. We are united in the fact that ensuring transport security is a very important objective that we must achieve together, and we are also united in the fact that it is likely in this case that such a law is being introduced at this point in time for a populist measure, that it is a pre-election period and that the applicant is therefore only one party, in this case the SDS. Wishing, in a genuine desire to improve the good for citizens and citizens, these comments and changes would have been professionally defined, even more so because we are all aware that the situation and the number of deaths in traffic were such that they required stricter legislation and that such legislation was also adopted. Whether there is a long-term link to the amount of the penalty and the number of deaths is not precisely and definitively determined, but it has been very clear to all offenders that matters have changed and that more responsibility must be given to traffic, as the penalty is therefore also the one that requires it. In the majority of the groups in question, it is noted that the social situation of individuals in that country is such that the system of determining the level of penalties is unlikely to be appropriate. Therefore, we would also expect that this well-intentioned motioner would want to regulate it in the Law on Offences. There, we could easily reduce the penalty for unhindered belts or for telephone calls, but certainly the proposed method or system, so that only a police officer could warn or not warn and then secondly punish, come in one period, probably not good and we know how it is if a policeman can decide for himself whether something is safe or dangerous. It was even more surprising not to say horrendous, but today it was explained why restrictions on Saturdays were set before school. Yeah, we probably won't go any further with that thinking logic. Why, then, is the restriction when it comes to teaching a child? Is it supposed to be just between breaks when the kids are out? These explanations are inexplicable and would be expected to have positive effects on citizens and citizens in the second law, according to a reduction in the amount of the offences and, in particular, what the Minister mentioned in the introduction, so that the individual amount of the penalty should be linked to the material state of the offender. This is regulated in other countries and this should also be necessary in Slovenia. I am confident that this law and the Road Traffic Offences Act will continue to undergo some changes. At this point, we will, as we say, vote differently in the Group of Non-Aligned Members on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u152	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SD Group, Mr Janko Weber will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u153	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Traffic rules form the basis of traffic order on public roads and, in order to facilitate the implementation of the very extensive legal provisions of the Road Safety Act, have been drafted by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior in this mandate by the Motor Vehicles Act, the Drivers Act, the Roads Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. The purpose of the division of individual areas was to make this legislation more transparent and effective in the implementation of road traffic rules. While the Road Traffic Rules Act defines only rules and rules, of course, are one of the most important road safety activities. Although in the vast majority of traffic accidents the cause of a mistake or error in the conduct of an individual participant, its behaviour in road traffic is mostly due to external influences which cannot be directly affected. And, of course, we are also talking a lot about the responsibility of the country, which can be defined as a liability for road safety, which relates mainly to the condition of roads and their equipment, to education, to education and, of course, to the sanctioning system. The law, which we adopted at the end of 2010, increased fines for the worst offences and reduced fines for the lowest offences. And as the lowest offences at that time, we have identified above all the failure to respect the sign or order of an authorised official, the violation of the provisions on the removal of an evicted vehicle from the road, the non-compliance of the sign by which the authorised official stops the driver, the conduct contrary to the restriction or prohibition of traffic, the violation of the provisions on loading and interpretation of the goods on the road and so on. In short, minor offences have been identified very clearly, which do not pose such a risk to traffic safety, and today the proposaler has also indicated that I am primarily referring to the use of the phone during driving, the non-use of the safety belt and the over-speeding of settlements. We believe that before we go to writing the Road Traffic Rules Act, which would determine that these are less complex or less dangerous offences, of course, a professional analysis in the field of road safety is needed in particular. The use of the phone is often fatal for the participant, as is the non-use of the safety belt and the overspeed at weekends. We need to know that, of course, the games, playgrounds and everything that is going on are often also used on Saturdays by children and it is very difficult to actually apply these rules in road traffic according to days, but not according to the participants in traffic. So we believe that this text of the law is written mainly or probably in the sense of some pre-election candy when it also wants to obtain a few votes on the road safety account. We believe that this is irresponsible, but it is also irresponsible, because this law also interferes with the Law on Offences and, finally, we get a mixture of imprudent legal solutions, which certainly only reduces the legal security of all those involved in accidents. Only the payment of the fine is not subject to the Road Traffic Rules Act, but rather to the Offences Act, and not least after the current legislation, it is possible to introduce the infringement procedure instead of issuing the offence decision to give a warning to the driver or road traffic participant. So these solutions are now available. Of course, we consider any other content to be a serious professional analysis. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Rules Act is inappropriate for further consideration and, of course, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Mag will present the position. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u155	We will, of course, support these proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is, however, an opportunity and a time to upgrade the solutions further to the procedure for the adoption of this law. We believe that those who oppose – especially here we have heard the minister and some – are actually mutilating the facts. This law does not tandem with any exemption or possibility of issuing a warning for serious offences, any possibility for those who actually endanger road safety. It was mentioned that in some way you would want to overlook drunk drivers and so on, as the minister even said. This law does not say at all that it is possible to give a warning for offences involving guilty drivers. Not with those who drive in the wrong direction. Not with those who commit serious misdemeanors estimated at fines above 300 euros. This law only refers to minor offences, and this is provided that a police officer who comes out of circumstances does not consider that the safety of road users is not compromised. How many times have we witnessed a police officer stopping us from a toll station, on a clear day when peace is no one's home, and it stops us because we didn't strictly respect those traffic restrictions that are finally 40 an hour, and we don't threaten anyone. In such a case, we prescribe a note. You're saying the police have a chance to give warnings so far. Yeah, it's true, but it's his discretion whether he uses it or not. If he has a task from his superiors or if there is some kind of task in the police - and I believe it is - that all offenders, especially small ones, are to be broken down, so that the state budget is full, then there is a saying of these fines and a nuisance of drivers who are being punished for small offences, minor offenses. And this creates the impression that the Road Traffic Rules Act is an incassant law and is not to be surprised at the position of Liberal Democracy, because it was just a minister who was sort of the one collecting those penalties from the same nest. So, I would like to point out that the purpose of this law is not to sanction itself so drasticly or to give a reminder of minor offences. I've mentioned some of them before, so let me get on with it. It's also about pedestrian-related misdemeanors. There are quite a lot of penalties prescribed here. If, say, a pedestrian walks, it's not properly marked. So everyone has to be properly marked. If it isn't, it's a fine, whether it's a threat to him or not. Is that right? And there are similar fines for drivers, and I will point out this case once again when it is "increased" at the board, where there are no houses – because the marking of settlements is not related to where buildings begin and the possibility of danger due to pedestrians, due to the exports from the courtyards and the like – so, in the case of the tables on the transparent parts of the roads can be stopped because there are unreasonablely low restrictions there. Every single one of us who drives is witness to this mess. And here we propose that a reminder be given for an exceeding 20 kilometres if the safety of the participants is not jeopardised. Please don't abuse this proposal if we care a little about security. We still care about security, but the excessive punishment of minor minor offences is disproportionate to achieving this objective, which even undermines the purpose of the law after greater road safety has been achieved. We therefore propose these solutions. However, I did not mention in the introduction some other solutions that are in this law. It is also a very important solution to allow a non-applicable road traffic operator to complain about a police officer's decision and a fine within 8 days, to pay half the penalty within 30 days and not within eight days. This is because, in particular, those who depend on monthly incomes, modest incomes, should be paid, should be compensated for unemployment, social benefits or pensions, therefore on the day of the offence service, the possibility of paying this and not being bound to those eight days, because this can happen in the last eight days or in the last part before the arrival of the benefit and, of course, cannot make up for it. So that's also the solution we're predicting in here. There are many unreasonable sanctions in this law and in fact we want to achieve what the legislator has also stated when adopting the Road Traffic Rules Act, so that it will tighten the penalties for the worst offences and ease them for the lowest. That's not what happened. The fines and other sanctions for the worst crimes have increased, but there is little or no struggle, with exceptional ease. We would also like to report with this proposal that this criminal policy is wrong, so that road safety can be achieved in a more reasonable, more humane and less incassant manner. Here we see the opinion of the Government, which estimates that these provisions are part of the Law on Offences. Similarly, a respected government, we have also witnessed events when we accepted the possibility of deleting the existence of silent companies in the Law on Economic Companies – this is what we proposed – and then the Government felt that this does not belong to this law, but to another law. Then we wanted to reform the second marriage, and the government said, "No, this does not belong to this second, but to those first marriages, as you originally proposed. Therefore, it is probably not clear to the Government at all times which regulation is in which law and this is used as a useful reason not to achieve the purpose or objective to which we are also following this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that, or that those who have supported the Road Traffic Rules Act have been slightly exaggerated, in particular in the case of these minor or minor offences, and that a step back is needed here, in a way, it is softened and the proposal before you is going in this direction. And there's one more thing. You're talking about some pre-election candy. This law was recently passed this year, and as a result, practice has shown some of the anomalies that we, or some of my colleagues, have been alerted to at the time of the consideration of that law. And part of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party also rejected this law precisely because of this exaggerated criminal policy. It will be difficult for us to readjust some indiscretion here, because we have had this position from the very beginning and now we want to correct the mistakes you have made in the previous ruling coalition on the basis of a few months' practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We must all be aware that playing with the issue of safety in transport cannot and must not be the subject of pre-election campaigns. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, they are proposing a amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, the main purpose of which is for certain offences which, according to them, do not directly endanger road safety and which do not result in harmful traffic consequences, a warning was given for the first time in the offence committed instead of a fine. If a road traffic operator repeated the offence over a period of one year and the official would not have warned him, he would have punished himself with the prescribed fine. This is in the grave content of this proposal. However, the last novelty should be decided in the SDS because the new law imposes much more severe penalties than the previous law on road safety, which applied until 30 June 2011. In the Parliamentary Group, we really agree with some of the concerns of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular the concerns of the penalties imposed by the new Road Safety Act. At that time, if you are not deceived by your memory, it is in Really that we have proposed that determining the amount of the penalty would depend on the personal income or property status of the infringementr of road traffic regulations. They would also introduce a category of justice in punishing such irregularities. No parliamentary group backed up our proposal at the time, so we did not insist on it. It is therefore a surprise to us that the SDS Group just before the early elections of the National Assembly has submitted a bill that would otherwise oppose the height now, even in our opinion, of excessive penalties imposed, instead of imposing the concept of a reminder. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not propose a reduction of fines, but only one-year leave. That's not why we're going to support the bill. It is not only because it comes at a pre-election time because it does not lower our fines or follow our proposals, but also because the applicants, contrary to the General Law on Offences, introduce non-systematic changes or warnings with one-year leave. The latter reminds us too much of the system of ecclesiastical forgiveness with the promise that they will no longer sin. I would like to point out to the SDS bill that the Road Traffic Rules Act is pursuing the basic objectives of the country's transport security policy, which are mainly the reduction of the number of traffic accidents affecting persons and fatal accidents. And the latter cannot and must not be part of or prey of an electoral bill. For these reasons, it follows that we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u158	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already proposed that for the worst crimes which result in serious injury and even death, such as driving in the opposite direction along the highway, it is imperative that sufficient and effective penalties be put at risk in order to have a preventable effect. But that's not enough. Roads must be safely and properly marked and training for safe driving and non-violent communication must play a major role. When adopting new road rules, we had a lot of comments and proposals, but they were not adopted to the greatest extent. We have warned that penalties must be reasonable and proportionate both with offences and with possible consequences. With the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, fellow Members propose that for small offences which do not directly endanger road safety and do not cause harmful consequences in traffic, a warning should be given to the first offence committed instead of the fine. If a road traffic operator repeated the offence over a period of one year and the official would not have warned him, he would have punished himself with the prescribed fine. At the same time, the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act allows a road traffic violator who does not file judicial protection to pay half the fine within 30 days of the legal authority of the payment order, instead of within eight days as is now the case. Some experts believe that the penalties for road traffic offences in Slovenia are unreasonablely high. This, however, also shows the comparison that I see as punishment for a number of offences in Slovenia and Germany. The penalties are even higher than two to ten times, which is unreasonable, and they do not have as much impact on traffic safety as government officials are trying to convince us. Some experts believe that traffic safety has improved significantly over the past 10 years, and sanctions are tightening. The novelty of marriage interferes with the recently established rules, which have in fact caused a great deal of disapproval and comments. Citizens and citizens are also turning to our Group and mentioning cases that in fact point to the excessive incasance of the authorities for the collection of penalties for offences. The speeds are measured in short sections, for example, at a distance of 150 meters, where the limits of 50 kilometers per hour are not clear whether they are really a settlement. Invalid parking in the same height shall be punishable for parking where traffic or safety are not compromised, for example in the centre of the town on the pedestrian sidewalk. Bikers and pedestrians are punished in the same way as drivers of fast cars. We therefore rightly ask ourselves where the criteria for the proportionality of the threat to safety are here and how such a method of penalty collection is carried out is intended to prevent the preventive effect of the penalty at risk in order to prevent the worst consequences of traffic accidents. In view of the high burdens involved, large amounts of penalties affecting citizens and citizens should not be left to the subjective judgment of the authorities on a case-by-case or sub-law basis. However, it is impossible to predict and record all possible cases. In addition, we fully trust the transport police, and it is certain that they only implement the written provisions of the laws which provide for all equal punishment. Because of the few kilometres exceeded limits outside the village, where it is not clear where the limit ends, for example, 50 kilometers per hour, we are confident that it is after 1. 7. Completely exaggerated and, after unnecessary burden, already modest income by collecting penalties. In such cases, it is entirely sufficient for a warning to be given at the time of the first offence. At the time of the adoption of the Roads Act, we have proposed a reduction in the penalties for driving on roads where local traffic is limited, so the new penalty is disproportionately high. It is essential, however, that sufficient penalties and penalties for the most serious offences, such as driving in the opposite direction, guilt, excessive speed exceeding, especially in densely populated areas, and similar offences that may cause the worst consequences remain at stake. It is necessary to continue preventive education in primary schools in order to make road safety more effective through prevention, and we have therefore added that education and education for safe road transport are provided in pre-school education programmes and primary and secondary education programmes. Learning about safe transport must start in the youngest children's years. In our view, the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further discussion. However, until the second hearing, the Ministry or Government should prepare a list of offences where penalties could reasonably be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u160	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which would not directly endanger road safety and would not cause harmful traffic consequences, but would, for the first time, give a warning instead of a fine. This can be done without this law. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the bill is primarily a pre-election candy by the proposer. For the applicant forgets that for just ten kilometers per hour, driving too quickly from the speed limit can be fatal for weaker road users, such as children or older people. We also believe that an official can only give a reminder after the current legislation if it seems that the offence has not seriously endangered traffic safety and other road users. The terms of the notice shall be governed by Article 21 of the Law on Offences, which provides that the criminal authority and the court may issue a warning for an offence committed under such extenuating circumstances, which shall be made particularly light. However, a reminder may also be given if the offence has not been fulfilled, whether the offence has been caused by the damage and the perpetrator has fulfilled the prescribed obligation or repairs or reimbursed the damage caused prior to the decision or sentence of the offence. The proposal is populism to allow for a more reliable payment of fines by violators by extending the period of payment of fines. According to our assessment, there is no guarantee that the 30-day payment deadline would be more likely. We also believe that some of the offences for which the applicant proposes only a reminder are not as dangerous as they appear at first sight. On this point, let me point out the sixth paragraph of Article 29, which provides that a fine of EUR 120 shall be imposed on the driver for an offence which in winter or winter conditions of a motor or trailer in road transport does not have the prescribed winter equipment or is acting contrary to the meaning of the traffic mark for the mandatory use of snow chains. According to our assessment, it is an offence by which the perpetrator endangers himself and others, but at the same time it can also cause greater material and possibly even environmental damage. For example, the applicant would simply warn the driver who is driving in reverse without the safety pulses involved. In addition, it ignores the fact that the car that drives backwards with the swings involved is much more visible in traffic. And I could count it. Perhaps the motioner will convince us in today's debate that this is not just a populist move and that the bill is prepared on the basis of professional studies, but we are Members of the DeSUS Group, so far, that the bill is not suitable for further consideration. However, I very much agree with the proposaler when he says that in some parts of the restrictions are not correct or incorrect, but there is no place in this bill, but there are other laws that otherwise regulate it. I was very dismayed by the speech before me from the SNS Group, which said that the less wealthy could also lose their existence. True, but even less wealthy ones must comply with the rules in force. However, the existence is lost or lost by all those who are at the cemetery or in wheelchairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. I apologize, Mr Franco Juri, on behalf of the proposaler, Mr Mag is first. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u163	Your Honor, thank you very much. I would like once again to warn and highlight the substance of this proposal. This is not only an exemption from fines for easier infringements, but a second condition must also be met, and the second condition is that it does not impede or endanger other road users or cause them no harm. In short, it is a minor offence and at the same time not to endanger the safety of yourself and others in road traffic. See, it is very common that we do not threaten anyone by committing minor offences, and that is why such words, spoken by several representatives of the parliamentary groups, if we care little about security, do not hold. We just want to prevent this disproportionate punishment from being committed by an individual. Punishment must be proportionate to the threat to safety and to the offence. If there is no proportionality, then it provokes a revolution and these are unfair solutions. We have proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think that we are probably united in Parliament, that we have exaggerated the penalties for offences when we talk about road traffic rules, that we have gone a little too far and that something has to be done. No one, after all, has the power to deal with this problem, and we have proposed solutions. [[...]] Now some people tell us where you have your expertise, your expertise. A healthy farmer's mind says you sanction a man for a crime as much as the weight of his offense. And don't overdo it. The current law is exaggerating and therefore we want to settle this in line with the assumption that no one is in danger of road traffic. Who is at risk of road traffic if, for example, someone drives a car around the city at a speed of 20 miles [30 km] an hour, say a child into a kindergarten and is not attached. He's not attached because he forgot about that mile drive when he went for the baby in the rain or whatever. So it's not attached, and now it's 120 euros in fines. 120 euros in fines! Is that proportionate? I don't think so. Is it proportionate to punish someone who exceeds 7 or 8 kilometers per hour of speed in or out of a village where there is no one on the radio 50 or 100 meters, but who is stopped by a police officer with a radar and charged him with a fine that is not small? In such a case, we want this leave, this reminder, and only if the reminder does not depend within one year, do we have a fine. I would therefore like to ask that we do not abuse this proposal if it is of little concern to the applicants for road safety and that we put some pre-election populism ahead of road safety. This is certainly not true, but we want to correct the bad decisions that Parliament has taken recently or a few months ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. I will repeat what I said on behalf of the Zares Group. For us, safety in traffic is an extremely important category. And I also say that as a Member, as a politician. Politicians sometimes get a little aggressive. Many politicians also drive aggressively. And what we're discussing today has -- not to take me too seriously -- quite a few scents of conflict of interest. We're trying to defend the privileges of those who drive past the rules. I repeat, I agree that the penalties laid down in the law have been exaggerated. But the very concept of punishing these offences is correct, especially when we think about statistics of the dead, the crippled and the disabled or the number of accidents on our not entirely safe roads. Sometimes a repressive approach is definitely needed, even though tomorrow we will all stop if a cop stops us and we realize that we will now pay a fine of 120 euros for something that doesn't seem special to us, because you can go a mile without a belt. But sometimes the worst accidents happen right in front of the house when you think you're safe to afford such a disadvantage. There are many such accidents, Comrade Visjak, just such accidents. Forgiveness and reminders are obviously not enough. No one would take this law seriously and even work for the police if they approached it that way. Therefore, what we have proposed, and the pity that you have not supported it, is a slightly more socially fair distribution of penalties in terms of personal income. In fact, punish those who are wealthy and do not respect the law and relatively fewer who cannot afford it. If we took such a social approach, with a social spirit, including criminal policy, we would probably have more effects. Forgiveness and warnings are not the right way. For us, the right path would be to reduce fines and we can discuss this, but selectively reduce fines. So, in fact, taking into account the possibilities that citizens and citizens have also visas for criminal policy and police sanctions. So, I'm sorry, but despite the good intentions and despite this convenient and loving proposal, which sounds very liberal – it sounds liberal, but it's not, in fact, populist – it wouldn't have the right effect, because it would encourage, encourage those who unfortunately don't respect rules and traffic rules. We will therefore insist that we do not support this proposal, but we are always ready to discuss the changes that will follow our then suggestions, which would actually sound a little fairer to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The law adopted in 2010 entered into force 1. Seven. In 2011, he was presented as well-intentioned in the National Assembly and his intention was to increase the safety of all road users, but, as we can see, after a few months, it has been shown that this is not the case and the weaknesses have begun to be abused by institutions with traffic control powers, especially those who have been given the privilege of punishing and collecting money for machine offences. The law made it clear that fines only go up for the worst offenses. I'd like to give you an example. If you're driving from Polenšak to Dornava, Prleki knows where this road is, there's a plain where you can drive 80 kilometers an hour without a problem and it's allowed. And then you drive to Dornava, where the Dornava board is. Right now, 80 meters for the Dornava Tablet are set up by radar, and anyone who gets there, I believe they're bringing 80 or 70, when they see the board, they see the foot from the gas and they go slowly forward, and if the radar was 100 meters in, they'd drive 50. But no, he's set up there in order to cash in. There's a lot of cases like this. When people warned me about this, they said they went to measure how many feet from the table. 80 meters! Here you can see that interest is just cashing. In this way, at least 90% of drivers pay their fines, but not because of the danger of traffic, but because of the fact that they are only cashing themselves. Let us ask ourselves why radar is not built in the village, because there would be fines justified, but it is clear that speeds are very rare there. Therefore, it is high time for something to change to correct such a law, since it was probably not meant to be full of municipal and state treasury, but to contribute to the reduction of traffic accidents, to the awareness of violator drivers, to the safer driving of all road users. The current law is repressive and, according to the expert, it does not reduce the number of accidents in the long term. I have known Mr Petrovec for a very long time, he is recognized and respected as a great expert who has proved that the penalties in Slovenia are too high and far from having the same effect and effect as government representatives prove. As we see, stories are always repeated, repressive policies are followed stubbornly, and professions are ignored. It punishes everything on the average, so you get the feeling that all drivers are dangerous and that everything needs to be pre-disciplined. In today's logic, you don't have to be a dangerous participant in traffic and put other players at risk. You can be a very disciplined driver, and with small offenses that I think would have a greater effect on you, you will be entitled to a driver's license. I do not believe that such legislation agrees with professional drivers who are employed and exposed to it on a daily basis, where it also happens to commit for objective reasons a small offence that would be worthy of any warning. Taking a driver's license is the same as taking a lawyer's degree, and you shouldn't be doing legal or judicial functions anymore, because he made a few minor mistakes, even though these mistakes, as we know, these people do. Equally controversial are the seizure and permanent seizure of a vehicle, whose owner is not the driver who committed the offence, but someone else. Of course, there are various reasons here, but in any case, as we see, the vehicle is taken away. The number of withdrawals from day to day is increasing, which should give us the idea that something is wrong with this law, since it would be expected that this number of withdrawals would be reduced if the law followed the principle of reducing the offences committed, but this does not happen. It is best for Slovenians to collect cars and let credits pay cheerfully forward. As we see from various analyses, the number of deaths is decreasing, although traffic has increased several times, and in some ways it proves that driver culture and the attitude of drivers in transport is also improving. I will not talk about alcoholism and drivers under the influence of drugs, because there is no excuse here and it is a conscious act that must be treated as such. If a person has committed a fatal accident under the influence of alcohol or illicit substances, he must be treated in the same way as the perpetrator of the death penalty murder, if of course he is guilty. The presence of police on the roads would make a significant contribution to the reduction of offences. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that there are too few policemen, but this does not mean that we must therefore have several times the penalties imposed by countries across Europe. What do we do by joyfully punishing the nation and filling the state budget? This makes poor people even poorer, since some no longer have bread and the car is no longer a luxury. High penalties create confusion and uncertainty for drivers who have now focused all their attention on a speed indicator during the ride, which could easily be compared to phone calls during the ride, as it has the consequences of reducing the driver’s driving concentration. The proposed bill is more lifelike as it introduces the possibility of a reminder, prolongs the half payment of the fine from eight to thirty days and lower penalties, which are more comparable to Europeans. You know, no police nuisance is going to ease and bring cops closer to the nation, but it's just the right legislation that cops have to implement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, I would say that if I had guessed which pre-election candy would fly to our tables, I would actually have chosen this law, which in some ways reduces penalties for those who violate traffic rules. I will not support this marriage. I'm not going to a cheap convenience store and voter feelings. I believe that punished policy is an important segment. I'm not gonna say she's either the best or she's not better, but of course she's not the only one and she can't be the only one. Improving infrastructure, other measures that contribute to road safety and improving driving culture, all of which, together with penalties for non-compliance, help to reduce the number of victims on the road at least in the long term, especially fewer fatalities. I can't accept these things, that it's no big deal if you're driving a little bit without a belt, because the injuries can also be high at low speeds, and I can't accept that this law is primarily a weaker income, because the weaker layers of Maserati do not drive or race along Slovenian roads. So my voice will not be with this candy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me start by saying or protesting against all those predecessors, colleagues who are somehow telling us not to worry about road safety with this proposal. We are even diagnosed with populism, and I strongly reject such cheap evidence. It is a proposal of a law that has not fallen from the sky, but is a result of pressure from the Slovenians, from people who cannot accept this law as life. I can give a whole bunch of reasons why, I support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have planned something like this in the Slovenian National Party ourselves, and even if it is not adopted, it will be in the second term, without concern. This marriage will continue to be processed. Why? It's actually the Incasance Act. I don't know if you were aware of the consequences of such abnormal fines when you accepted it. Let me explain something else. I'm not talking about the worst crimes that threaten the real life of a man, that's guilt, that's driving in the wrong direction. I repeat – some of the predecessors have already said – that these are offences that do not constitute a life-threatening threat to other road users. See what happens? Have you done any analysis of how many personal bankruptcys have already been caused, blocked accounts, social pressures, how will this lead to the necessity of the abolition, once this has happened to me in 2004, I think? When the unrecoverable penalties are collected and there will be real impossible penalties for recovery? Because the affected are actually the weak layers of Slovenk and Slovenes. But what you do to workers, farmers, pensioners living on 200 or 300 euros a month, and I don't know who you'd like to see in Austria is that for one 35km an hour in a village, you take two paychecks, gentlemen, I don't know who you'd take for a review. Or the one who did it, or the one who proposed such a law? I don't even understand. RS Agency for Transport Safety. Your members themselves say that they are under the pressure of six — eleven of you, if I am not mistaken — and that you are putting some pressure on such suggestions that you are not all united in the agency. Next, analysis. Have you done any analysis, a comparison in the 27 EU Member States? Have you done an analysis of the average income situation of the inhabitants in those countries? Did you do an analysis, a comparison of the heights of punishment? And then you want to convince me that this isn't a ruby, incassant law, there are differences in penalties for the same or the same misdemeanors ten times, twenty times. Are we really out of our minds that we can't understand that this isn't life? On the other hand, you say that once safety in road traffic has improved, but you go along with tightening sanctions. I don't know who you think you are. Is that a logic? I understand that if the number of fatal disasters were to increase, the number of deaths would increase. But you're doing the opposite. So, some very illogical things. I'll say it again. The President has raided our representative from our party. She did not talk about those serious violations, guilt behind the wheel, driving in the opposite direction along the highway, about abnormal speed, debauchery on the road, but she was talking about those crimes that did not actually compromise the safety of people. And if it's not populism, what colleague DeSUS is running here for a payphone and he's obvious to us populism, then let him go to a checkup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Just Bevk. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Most of the content was told by a colleague and colleagues of the Slovenian National Party. Once again, I would like to say honestly that let us all understand together that there is a need to find some comparability. She needs to be found. You know, immediate sanctions and punishment have never produced any good results in life. Instead of starting to engage in prevention in order to build traineeships to allow children already in the first grade of primary school with adapted vehicles to become familiar with traffic, instead of absolutely introducing a compulsory safe driving school into the law three years ago, instead of raising drivers instead of building a range where young motorists could learn and experience without danger on the road, none of this was done, but only boom, boom, boom after people's pockets. Everything's coming back. Remember. Everything's coming back. That's why we're in favour of this bill. We can't do everything just through our pockets. And that God, there will be no more accidents, I am sure that a government like this, would once again raise all these penalties, which are in the sky, which are absolutely immoral. And what he said at the end of the day, Comrade Majhenič, they all heard that taking a driver's license to someone today was as absurd as taking his diploma from a judge and not allowing him to judge any more because he made small mistakes, but he was more than a driver.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u174	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Well-known, distinguished president, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Transport, colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the bill itself. The position of the Government is clearly stated in the explanation that the proposal does not support the law. And as has been said several times today, it's probably some kind of like and pre-election candy. The facts are as follows. The bill itself, as clearly defined in the Government's proposal, is a grave intervention in setting traffic rules. We know what it means, what it talks about, and what the Road Traffic Rules Act defines. It is a matter of determining the amount of the fine and the penalty point, or in this proposal to mix this law with the Offences Act, which is intended to lay down general conditions for the regulation of penalties for offences. Therefore, such a change in regulation, as has been pointed out, would introduce dangerous irregularities into the legal system and this would mean less legal certainty from the point of view of users, which is not acceptable in this respect. It is a shame to discuss some of them today, to say, truly demagogic approaches and performances. It is true, as has already been said today, that people in the Republic of Slovenia live under different living conditions, including as far as vehicles are concerned, as far as personal income is concerned, but it is a shame to discuss the Law on Road Traffic Rules to talk about personal bankruptcy and difficult social conditions. It is not long before we faced a severe traffic accident in the area of Dolenjska last week, and in fact, when it comes to someone missing, especially when it comes to young people, it is certainly particularly difficult and severe. And then let us imagine that perhaps even in the Road Traffic Rules Act, although in some ways I agree that there will still be a need to consider and actually this law will be amended or amended, to examine also from the point of view of the legal system, and perhaps in certain offences, fines, and so on, that in fact, as has been said several times, it will not hit the pocket to such an extent or at such an extent. However, at this point, because we see that this is a lack of coordination, for a fast-track proposal of the law, probably a good one, probably also a demagogic approach, but I also agree that because I have participated many times in raising awareness of the youngest, in various preventive road safety actions, that it would be absolutely good and right that we would also be more supportive in the National Assembly, that in the Republic of Slovenia, railways and safe driving schools should be built, and that in all areas of the Republic of Slovenia, we would have as close as possible to all these facilities as possible, not to say at any given point in time from the White Country, from Vinice, should go to the range or some such runway where it would be taught, to the area of Stajerska. Even when someone takes a driving test, there are some inconsistencies in this regard. However, as I have already said, like the opinion of the Government, which does not support this bill, I support changes in the future in this area, but at a given time with such a proposal, I believe that this is premature. Perhaps there was not enough time for a good examination and for the placement of all certain improvements, changes or additions to show what was right, that in the Road Traffic Rules Act, whose issues were strictly related to the law that was also under consideration, the Law on Offences. Therefore, I will not support this proposal alone now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] There are no other applicants, so I am closing the debate on this list. But since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, I ask you Excuse me. [[...]] Mr. Visjak is also the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that the minister is unfortunately not to explain some of his views or deceptions if we want to protect serious offenders, drunks on the road, and so forth. This is what he himself said about this payphone today in Parliament, while the law does not at all grant exemptions for those drivers who are alcoholics, under the influence of drugs, or who are returnees who are perpetrators of worse crimes, such as driving in the wrong direction and so on. So this is demagogy on this proposal and probably the blindness of people living in some salon circles isolated from the everyday hardships of people. Many of today's debates have been in this sense and have illustrated how some clearly do not perceive the effects of the decisions taken in this House. And these effects are not on those savages on the roads, these effects are not on returnees, these effects are not on people who have health problems with drinking alcohol or other intoxicating substances. These effects are on ordinary citizens who are involved in road traffic, given that every thing you do on the road is a crime, which, of course, also with fines, is severely hit on the pocket, if they do the least and also on all innocent matters, if we are talking about road safety. We would like to point out with this bill that we have gone too far with this criminal policy and that penalties are disproportionate to violations of the rules of safe participation in transport. That is the essence of this proposal. And nothing about how many people have turned on us, and even on you, a few responses have turned with these same problems. You can tell us that it is not the right time for this proposal – I do not know when it is the right time, because we are always in some, more or less pre-election cases, we have local elections, presidential elections, state elections, almost every year there are elections, if there is no elections, but there is a referendum, and in fact we are always in a period of testing and support for individual political parties. It may also be an opportunity for us to make some decisions that are of human measure, not according to the size of the elite and not according to the degree of certain lobbying. I think that the easing of the penal policy of this so-called incassance in the field of small offences that do not have a direct impact on road safety is one of the steps that citizens are taking and makes life difficult for them. It was said that this would be the worst thing that would affect the social weakest. Sure. For 120 euros for the non-use of the safety belt affects one who has disproportionately more than 400 euros in income than one who has thousands or 2,000 or 3,000 euros in income. That's what I want to talk to you about. And a number of people who have committed two such crimes in six months can be quite injured. Let me do it again. A breach that occurs if the radar stops the driver from the toll station on the highway, when there is no one anywhere, when you know that there is a limit of 100, then 80, then 60, and finally there is a limit of 40 on the floor. And if he commits a crime here, it goes up to 20 kilometers, he's been sanctioned again. And each of us knows that the board of limitations is about 100 meters ahead of the toll station, Table 80 also, also Table 60, and rarely in this House, respected, you have never committed a misdemeanor, even there. Not to mention violations of excess, for example, up to 10 kilometers per hour or even 20 kilometers per hour in the village’s designations, but outside the actual settlement. The village’s markings are disproportionately placed according to the concentration of buildings or various dangers that could be from the vicinity, that is, from some courtyards, such as pedestrians, courts, and roads. We can also have a board a few hundred meters outside of this sparse settlement and, of course, there is still a ban and believe me, that often we are on these sections where people like to step on gas, right there meets some kind of radar. I have to say that this can happen especially in the municipalities where they started with these fines, the city of Ljubljana is probably one of these. and see here a very convenient way of charging the budget due to all the living expenses they remembered. We wanted to draw attention to this proposal and propose a first step towards respect for the principle of proportionality of punishment in relation to the purpose of the penalty. However, the aim of the penalty is to ensure compliance with the rules and road safety. And with some exaggeration we can achieve the opposite effect after my assessment. Some experts also point to this. Having average wages several times lower in Slovenia than in neighbouring countries, such as Austria or Germany, punishments several times higher means that perception in these developed European countries does not count anything. Therefore, they should have higher penalties than we do in order to act on their higher average income, but they do not. That's why something is wrong, Your Honor, with your father's proposal that we have to hit the "hero" for road safety. That's not true. And you're not going to do that, and people are finally going to fight back for once, because that's not how it works. That is why we have proposed this, of course, we hope that common sense will prevail and that you will respond in some way. I think that in this law we have also gone forward with a single step, which was almost nothing commented on, not by the Ministry, not by anyone, but is important for life or, ultimately, for paying the fines of those who have been fined, and because of such or other circumstances, it really cannot do so within eight days, but it could in 30 days. We propose that this eight-day period be extended to 30 for half the penalty payments. We have to bear in mind that someone can commit a misdemeanour on the 20th or 30th of a month and get a salary on the 15th of a second month and, of course, pay more easily, especially those, I repeat again that they do not have on bank accounts or somewhere else deposited money, and that would make it easier to settle these fines. That's not really what we're commenting on. There is also one solution within which no one has actually reacted, which is probably less important for a wider circle of people, but it is about driving a tourist train. So far this tourist train has been banned on all roads, where speed is allowed over 50 km per hour, so there is no tourist train in Terme Olima, there is no tourist train in Terme Catež to take this tourist train from some surrounding village to the city, in the countryside, because there is usually a 90km per hour limit because it is a state road, and we therefore suggest that there is a possible travel of the tourist train also where there is a speed limit of up to 90 km per hour. In short, we wanted to bring solutions closer to some real, real problems, because we are living among these people, we are told observations and, after some reflection and analysis of these initiatives and proposals, of course, there are also such solutions. When we also see the international practice of comparable countries, we see that these solutions are true, that they are comparable to European practices, but that they are not comparable to some extreme views of certain people who think that only a higher punishment in this country will bring more security. This ends somewhere. It's just like the taxes. Tax hikes do not necessarily mean raising revenue from taxes collected because they stop somewhere, people don't want to, they don't accept, they start taking taxes. And here too, security stops somewhere if criminal policy is disproportionate to the gravity of the offence. We have actually gone over all the sanctions and we have chosen only those who are really gentle, small offences, small minor offences, and we have added a condition that the service of this offence does not directly endanger road safety. I see that's still too much for some. As a representative of the proponents, I propose that we reconsider these solutions and, finally, the well-intention of these proposed solutions, and that we support and upgrade the law in this reading if possible until it is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u178	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I can only see one hand. Yeah, I can see more hands, so I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Thank you. Mr. Vizjak [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Then Mrs. Pecan has it. Here you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u179	Thank you. Otherwise, we have an hour and 23 minutes, maybe we could have ten minutes each. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I admit that I was late before my turn, and that's why I took this opportunity to say what I thought about this marriage. I think it is certain that the reduction of traffic penalties, such as those and others, in the current resurgence of the number of fatal accidents – I think it was just yesterday that data was published that at the same time the number of deaths was 7 more than in the previous same period last year. I believe I also read that the law listed offences that were not intended to cause any danger to traffic. I don't think there's such a thing in traffic. If a person walks across the road where this is not allowed, he threatens himself, and he can threaten many others. Every day I encounter cases when I drive in a car, as a passenger or as a driver, when in Ljubljana they walk strictly across the road, when it is already green for the one who is a driver, and red for the pedestrian, it is said to be hard red, if we can say so, but still walk across the road. I don't know if it's softer or bumpy, but I wonder if such cases and a whole bunch of other cases, like driving a biker down the wrong lane, which is defined as a cycling track and has a real belt on the other side of the road, are not a danger to traffic. Looks like it's nothing special. That's not true. There could be serious injuries. We could have even listed it. I think that we should propose such a law at a time when we are still not successful enough to reduce the number of traffic accidents, so that we cannot say that we will reduce penalties, postpone the payment of penalties and similar things. I think there's too much risk here and it's not good to accept such pardons. This is one aspect that speaks of the very content of the law. The second aspect is that, in the first reading, the proposal to consider amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act for a short period of time to early elections is certainly part of a set of attempts to carry out the campaign before the election campaign begins at all, and I do not think that this is appropriate for the National Assembly. Of course, I will vote against the fact that the law is suitable for further consideration, but I think that the electorate is capable of such a way of dialing the polls probably also read and will not approve it, or that any more voice has been offered to those who have attempted to make such a law just before the present.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law tabled by our parliamentary group on reducing penalties for more innocent road traffic offences must be urgently adopted. Because under the current government and the last amendment of this law, Slovenia has become a repressive society towards a small man. This draconian punishment of a normal driver is a typical product of the current government coalition. From DeSUS forward all customers – Really, LDS and SD. They're all set on a little man. But to be repressive would be at least a consistent policy of this power and this coalition. However, when we have a criminal code to deal with, where we have proposed a crime of assault on the financial stability of the state and the sovereignty of the state to rise to the level of white issue that is happening in our banks, these countries are being robbed for hundreds of millions of dollars to continue to rebuild the banks, and that is not. But they didn't confirm it, even though Dr. Urban Vehovar, a well-known sociologist, said that what happens in banks is a crime. But you're not prepared to punish crimes, a little man who didn't know how to commit a crime, maybe he didn't realize it at all. And this is where Minister Kresalov rallied over the people, waiting in the ambushes. I'm telling you, it's not fair and it's not fair that at one o'clock at night they're waiting in an ambush in a formal settlement where there's no house to put a man literally to the bone, they can practically take a driver's license. This is the conspiracy of this power and the plundering of an average man. Action must be taken against this. There is now a proposal for these minor offences, but the whole criminal, criminal policy must be reviewed. This criminal policy did not aim to reduce the number of victims, but to bring the average Slovenian under the helm to be submissive to the authorities. And we do not need such situations in this country. Therefore, it is evident that this law has been introduced with special purpose that it is unjustifiable. We just had to do it. Rather, imagine and act proactively and in the interests of this country in changing the Penal Code, where it is necessary to regulate this great thing that they have done within the banks and robbed this country, and now we have to train our national banks over and over again in order to survive. And that's where we need to find those who committed this crime to people and to the country. I hope that you will be there when we consider this law another week, that you will be willing to do something there to stop these negative trends in this country from happening. Previously, it was also said that this legal draconian penal policy did not achieve anything. This year, the number of deaths is increasing. Minister Kresal's people and policemen are not sent to those places on the roads of smaller settlements, where some of the wild young drivers are — but I don't want to judge them, but mass psychology, when they get some of them and then they fold and so on — and there is an accident. That's where the D.O.P.D.'s supposed to be. And in those hours when they're driving there, not in ambush waiting for those people who happen to be passing by. It is logical that if, at one o’clock in the morning, he goes through a place where there is one house and one intersection, he will subconsciously forget that he has exceeded the limit. That's what you got yourself into. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will not roar as much as my predecessor, but I would like to explain to everyone clearly and loudly why I cannot really support this law. For a simple reason, it is based on the wrong submenu of distinction between so-called innocent, light, small offenses and so-called large, serious offenses, such as drunken driving, on the opposite side of a highway or lane, etc. There is no such difference and there is no difference. In certain specific circumstances, a relatively small offence, such as driving at a low speed in an area that is not particularly dangerous, can cause a fatal event and so on. There is no distinction and there is no distinction. That's why it makes no sense, and that's why I'm not going to support this marriage. Another time. I also have to say that I don't know why we would be repressive only to a small man. But we do believe that crimes are committed or committed by all, not just small people. And by the way, in my firm belief, there are no small and large people, and this difference that you're exposing here seems completely unrealistic, harmful and insulting to people you call small people. I believe that this is an important issue. It is particularly important in terms of whether or not we have some serious analysis of the effects of these and other policies that should contribute to road safety, including criminal policies. Other than something small in the annual reports of the authorities, I didn't notice. However, it would be good to see what effects such a criminal policy has on different levels. Then we could make a more sober and more reasonable decision, especially in pre-election times, whether or not something needs to be done in this penal policy. I'm not saying that every punishment, in my personal sense, is the real punishment that's written here. But I'm saying that the subterfuge you're going to change this law or you're trying to do it is wrong. That's why I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. However, it is important to remind colleagues that we have also adopted a law in the previous term, which has dramatically increased the exact penalties. Just punish me. At that time, we have warned that this is too little and that other measures must also be introduced to try to control road safety, and in particular to shape the relationship of all actors to transport and, of course, to reduce these dangers, which are repeatedly exposed to the worst consequences of these accidents. The same measure has therefore not been adopted in this mandate. It is true that the penalties have been increased, but they have been reduced in some offences or fines compared to what was adopted in the previous term. That's a fact. This form, which has been presented today, is also certainly worth discussing. You are probably also aware that you do not have completely clear solutions and that you are not fully convinced of the correctness of these proposals, so you have also proposed a general debate. My opinion is still as I have presented it in the position of the Group of Members that any such interference with road transport rules must be harmonised, agreed upon and carried out expert analyses of what this actually means. There is no trace of this law or a proposal from a political party that is in Parliament and has the opportunity to propose it. However, it seems to me that it is too small for a new law to reach out so drasticly after not one year, that after this period it is necessary to say that this law has not brought something or something like that a somewhat flat-rate assessment. However, I have also always been of the opinion that when we spoke both in the previous term and in that the level of punishment of someone with minimum income can be very burdensome. Someone else who has, say, 15, 20,000 euros, those thousands of euros won't even shiver, someone who has 500 euros, and thousands of euros in fines are extremely burdensome. My proposal was to try to study the system they have in Switzerland, so that the amount of the penalty is also linked to the income that an individual receives. The answer was that because of the many records, many of the procedures that have to be carried out in order to find out, this is not yet possible in practice for us. I think that there is still a need for reflection here in the future to further deepen this part and try to take into account the social status of the individual as well. I agree that no matter who commits an offence, the consequences that you have after paying this penalty are not comparable to those of all those who receive different incomes. This is an area, or one of those, that we have not been able to process in detail so far and to get closer to, not least to, the smaller and larger ones, especially with regard to income, so that no other notions or understandings can be considered. However, I think it would be difficult to say in this pre-election period that it is a noble proposal, that it is a matter of taking into account the practice which shows that there is no need to be regularly attached to the safety belt or that over-speeding in the settlement is not always a major offence. I do not really agree with this, and I cannot support such a proposal. Here I appeal that greater cooperation by the profession is needed and that a proposal for a law is formed, so today, at least on my part, it is not possible to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u186	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 12 October 2011, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BREAKDOWN LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. At its 66th urgent meeting, on 11 October 2010, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ms Lovtijar Bebler has the floor to present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u187	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Socialist Group of Members, we have decided, after careful consideration, that we will not support the proposal of the Law on the Complements of the Law on Offences that we are dealing with today. On the part of the Government, we were warned that if the novel was adopted, there would be new complications. These complications that we face in Ljubljana are due to the initial problems of municipal registrarism due to the new powers of municipal registries and computer application problems. The Act on Offences in Article 55 already provides that the criminal authority must, on an official basis, determine the facts without delay and collect the evidence necessary for the decision on the offence. Consisting and respecting that provision is a guarantee that this problem should no longer be repeated. In particular, we were persuaded by the comments and warnings of the Legislative and Legal Services, which point to the discriminatory nature of Article 1 of the proposal, to the effect that the proposal is contrary to Article 2 and Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the adoption of the proposed amendments would lead to internal inconsistencies in the law. The applicant did not explain the meaning of the different arrangements for those in which the different arrangements for those road traffic offences to be dealt with in a rapid procedure are applicable to all others, including those to be dealt with in a regular judicial procedure. Thus, it is not clear on which circumstances a constitutionally acceptable distinction could be based in favour of road traffic offences which, at the level of threat and the nature of the protection of goods, may be more serious offences than in other areas. However, further discrimination on the relationship between individual offenders arises from the provisions governing the time limits for the implementation of the procedure proposed in the new Article 57.c., although all road traffic violators are not in the same situation as those whose infringements are detected by the use of automatic devices, even though, under legal conditions, payment orders may be issued to all. The law also provides for specific facilitations regarding the time limit for the implementation of the procedure and the level of the sanction only for those violators whose infringement has been detected by a control device, without taking into account the more serious acts and other circumstances relevant to the expiry. Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group could even agree with the proposaler that these payment orders with high fines, criminal points and even withdrawal of the driver's licence do not have very large preventive effects. There was, in particular, a lot of dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the conduct of urban governance or the municipal authorities, because they had only received notices of punishment for a road traffic offence after months. However, we are convinced that the alleged weaknesses of the current law cannot be eliminated and replaced by a new proposal containing a series of provisions which are contrary to the basic requirements of the rule of law, equality before the law and which may cause discriminatory treatment of individuals. We are therefore pleased that the legislative procedure for the amendment under consideration has now ended on the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group, which has proposed this law, is deeply sorry that only the title has been left of the law and that this morning the legislative procedure has been completed. We have also made an effort to propose amendments which were of a substantive nature and which would also be amended accordingly, as opposed to the SD, whose amendments were announced to delete Article 1 from Article 2 in order to delete Article 3 and so on. And of course, the coalition succeeded. I reject the findings we heard on the Internal Policy Committee this morning, if this is a pre-election campaign. This law, or amendment, was introduced in July of this year when there was no information on early elections. It is true, however, that the disastrous conduct of this country’s early elections has in some way been premeditated, and this urgency has been reflected at different levels. We have therefore offered a brief and thorough change in people’s interests. We have recently witnessed scandalous and excretory cases when people received payment orders for a traffic offence even after a year or more. We have cases where after a year an individual has received a ticket of 3,000 euros and 27 penalty points for a crime committed in one or two days, so, of course, the penalty could not have worked preventively. The time dimension of issuing and determining payment orders is very important if we are to achieve a preventive purpose with penalties, and the timely delivery of payment orders also constitutes the basis of legal culture, the rule of law, the basis of legal certainty and predictability. There is not only a commitment in the rule of law that we must also pay the penalty within a certain period of time from the payment order received. The receipt of payment orders, when the list has already dropped twice, is unacceptable, while it is very ironic that the criminal authority with a payment order sets us a payment deadline of 8 days, while the bill of lading took us a year or even more. And it is unacceptable that the criminal authority has the possibility of sending payment orders for two years. Ljubljana's examples, when a crowd of people received bills for sentences after one year, indicate inorganicity or chaos in these services. Doubts may also arise that this was done or purposed to make punishments more difficult and that they could not seek legal protection. This also required a change of law. In addition to these anomalies, which we witnessed in the Municipality of Ljubljana, prominent lawyer Ljubo Bavcon said that he found the conduct of the Ljubljana congregation totally unacceptable and that in these cases it was bureaucratic and pointless punishment. On this occasion, however, Dragan Petrovec of the Institute of Criminology said that it was more than a meaningful criminal policy to fill the budget. However, from the Municipality of Ljubljana during these months, it has been reported that the accounts have to be paid back and forward. Only now that these bills have been billed for some time, they won't be coming in for a few months because it's time before the elections. Then the bills will come back a few months or a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u190	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Very briefly. On the first reading, the Zares Group supported the bill. It seems to us unheard of, unreasonable and incomprehensible that there has been such a major time gap between the offence committed and the authorities, namely the City Department, recorded offences and issuing a payment order. The fact is, if there is no causal effect between the offence and the punishment, such punishment of the offence is in fact pointless. This is what we talked about at the previous session at first reading, and I will not talk about it again. At that time I also pointed out that some of the solutions in the law are somewhat doubtful that the time limits are very short, that it would not be good if this law were to be bound to the procedure, i.e. to the Law in legal proceedings. Unfortunately, I must admit that it was not the right time to prepare a couple of amendments in this direction, nor was there any real professional assistance, including by the competent ministry, so of course we have run out of similar amendments, and the fact is that we understand the position of the Law-Legal Service and we have in some way accepted that this law has left the agenda and will not be adopted at this time. As proposed, of course, it should not be accepted. As I said, however, the will for real change and complements has run out of time and, of course, professional assistance. I think it will be necessary to separate from this problem, and we also assess this in the Group of Members, because there is no guarantee that these payment orders will now be issued more quickly. On the contrary, with certain views of the Supreme Court, such a late-casualty practice, if I may say so, is perfectly legal and fully justified. Today we have cleared this unacceptable law from the table, but the problems of the National Assembly in the next composition will certainly not be cleaned off the table, but will get it back again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already found, in the first reading of the Proposal for a New Law on Offences, that the law is in fact the answer to the conduct of the municipal registrar in the Municipality of Ljubljana. This has also been clearly stated by the applicants in the explanatory memorandum. First of all, we all agree that the act of the Ljubljana City Department was, in fact, a package of criminal charges sent within a few days for more than one year, nothing more than an unprecedented act. Such conduct is the result of an absurd follow-up to bureaucratic principles, as well as a lack of sense of humanity on the part of the civil society or those responsible in the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we regret that the procedure for dealing with the amendment of the Law on Offences has been completed and, as has been the case with many times, the view that it is better to preserve the existing situation that undermines people's confidence in the country rather than to change something and people to facilitate the fight against bureaucracy. Infringement is an offence, and responsibility must be taken for it, but the offence also has educational effects and serves as a warning to each individual not to repeat and thereby improve his or her own safety as well as the safety of other citizens and citizens. This component, however, has been forgotten in Ljubljana’s town hall and in some other congregation departments. Their practice has by no means helped to improve road safety, but it has been politely said only to charge cash and make fun of all citizens and citizens. Not only is such a way to completely nullify the importance of criminal sanctions, but more people have even left in ignorance that they have committed any offenses and then punished them according to the pattern of the number of offences. In short, it is a totally inappropriate practice, and in the existing law it allows for more than an obvious marriage hole. As has already been said, the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Offences is closed, which according to members of the Slovenian People's Party once again confirms the fact that it is better to find a thousand reasons to maintain the status quo, regardless of its inhumane effects, than to find one reason to improve the existing situation by seeking better and more appropriate services. In my first reading, I announced that we would respect every opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, although sometimes they do not agree fully with it, but the opinion is also proof of what I said in the previous sentence. But does this mean that, for formal reasons, we have to let things stay the way they are for citizens to fill the budgets of the congregation at the expense of ignorance and ignorance? For such a case may be repeated even tomorrow, or the punishments may already be gathered, but they are not yet sent. No, no, no. We have to look for solutions. One of these solutions, perhaps not the most fortunate, was the proposed law, but you had the opportunity to make an appropriate change to this law, to form it in the right form. I guess it's not in the best interest. Much easier and less work is to reject the law, as you have done with many good proposals for this mandate. Members of the Slovenian People's Party wonder how consensus can be sought on systemic solutions, but if we cannot harmonise ourselves with smaller legislative changes that would be more favourable to citizens and citizens. The search for bureaucratic excuses is unproductive, and we need to respond to such marital nonsense immediately, as this will be for the benefit of those for whom we are here. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that solutions to such specific cases can be found, and therefore only political will is required, which is unfortunately not yet available at this time. Further facilitating such acts by criminal authorities as we have witnessed will only deepen the disappointment of citizens and citizens over the functioning of the country, which is to be legally, socially, a state of all citizens and citizens. Is it true? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u195	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! In its opinion on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Offences, the Government stated that any amendment to the law should be considered and analysed on the basis of an analysis of the application of the regulation. That sounds good, but no government is holding on to it. The laws shall be amended by the current lane in accordance with individual current interests. The area that the proposer wants to address concerns a large number of people who, at the timely warning of repeated violations, would certainly know otherwise. Moreover, decision-making within a reasonable time is a legal standard which the competent authorities must respect consistently. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we are still convinced that a proposal for a law before us would make it more appropriate and more precise to provide payment orders for infringements provided by mobile radars so that legal interpretations of the rules are no longer possible. The essence of punishment must be to calm traffic and not to fill the budget in any way, either municipal or national. We advocate the presence of police and city officials on the roads, not the setting up of radar where someone is expected to commit a crime, but in places exposed to possible accidents, there is no one. Despite the declared provision of road safety, it appears that there is a higher priority in the implementation of the budget. We still support the bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u196	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. There is no additional explanation for the government's representative, but you have received material in this respect. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, President of the Committee. Mr. Janko Weber, will you come in, please? Wait a minute. It'll be here soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u197	Thank you for your word and for your understanding. The Transport Committee considered the law at its 27th emergency meeting on 10 October and continued on 11 October. In addition to the basic material we received for consideration, the Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the draft law, the representative of the proposer, Minister Patrick Vlačič, said that by adopting the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure, a dedicated source for financing investments in railway infrastructure had been established. However, since financial legislation in this area provides that it is only when these resources are actually collected that it is possible for the Ministry of Transport to complete the contract in the full value of the project, as confirmed in the development programme plan, but cannot sign the contract for the total value of the project if there are insufficient resources available on the dedicated item at that time. The adoption of the proposed law will allow for the appropriate take-up of commitments at the burden of the intended source, which means the conclusion of a contract for the entire value of the project even if the funds from the dedicated resources are not yet provided at the time. These are the key points raised by the Minister in his consideration of the law on the Transport Committee. However, from a systemic legal point of view, the legislative and legal service has also reviewed the proposal for a law and considers that the proposed provision in the work allowing the commitment to the extent of the adopted spending rights on projects included in the development programme plan is an exception to the provisions of the Public Finance Act, which allows the acquisition of assigned revenue only to the amount of the funds actually paid or available on the budget lines. In this regard, the Legislative and Legal Service has stressed that the derogation from the system regime is generally permissible, but there must be valid reasons for this. And also in the discussion below, the Minister further explained these reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the law. The Commission also supports the proposal for local self-government and regional development in the State Council, as it believes that there is a need to ensure the smooth flow of investments in public rail infrastructure in the coming years and that Slovenia cannot afford the loss of European funds, which is why the Commission in particular supports the proposed amendment of the law. On a proposal from the Ministry of Transport and on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee also drafted an amendment to Article 1, adopted and subsequently adopted both articles of the bill and adopted them. So you have the material so designed or the text of the law today at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr Weber, you can just stay for the speaker and give your position to the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u199	Thank you for rationalizing the procedure. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public rail infrastructure. This is the fact that the funds paid at the time of registration of the vehicle and the final amount of EUR 120 million are usually collected only at the end of the year, in December, before the current law, the Ministry of Transport cannot conclude contracts of up to EUR 120 million, which in practice poses major problems in the construction of the railway infrastructure, which is extremely important, particularly at the Koper-Divač section. This is therefore the most burdensome railway connection, which is also crucial for the further development of railway infrastructure, including the placement of Slovenia in the European rail transport area. Many contracts that are already prepared, especially for the purchase of land, are waiting because they cannot be concluded before the end of the year, so that if we adopt this law, it is possible to conclude these contracts already today and this is also important for people who have decided to sell their land, not to wait a year before this money is actually provided to them. Many times, however, it is also a matter of building or purchasing a replacement facility and someone who buys a replacement facility is in an extremely difficult situation when, for example, it is agreed that it will be possible to obtain these funds by six months, but in fact it will not be possible until the end of the year. This law therefore solves the very practical problems that arise at this point in particular in the purchase of land. However, it is also a matter of continuing investments financed under the system of maintenance works for public benefit, of restoring existing routes, in particular regional lines, so that this law also allows these investments to continue on the basis of contracts already concluded, and this means that rail safety and the quality of transport of passengers and cargo will also be improved. Because of all the very concrete solutions that this law provides, of course, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr Jerič, your services have cancelled your performance, but if you want, you can. Mr Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u201	Thank you for the floor, honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, fellow Member, fellow Members.Oh, my God! The adoption of the Act on the provision of earmarked funds provided a permanent source of investment in rail infrastructure with predictable tide dynamics. However, in the case of these funds, the fact that the Ministry of Transport, as an investor, is able to sign and complete a contract on the total value of the project, as confirmed in the Development Programme Plan, cannot sign a contract for the entire value of the project if there is not sufficient resources available on the dedicated item at that time. This means that the signing of contracts or the taking of commitments is not possible until the moment of actual inflows of assets at the value of the contract. The proposed legislative text, improved by the amendment of the Transport Committee, makes it possible to properly assume obligations at the expense of the intended source, which means that contracts for the entire value of the project are concluded even if funds from dedicated resources are not yet provided at that time. While we believe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that it would be better to resolve such dilemmas in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, we have also drawn attention to the Committee on Transport and have also pointed out the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion. However, due to the apparent deterioration in the state of public rail infrastructure and the risk of projects co-financed by European Union funds, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, say good-bye to everyone! The addition of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. With the implementation of the law that we adopted in the National Assembly last spring, at the beginning of 2010, it was clear and we have pointed out that it will have to be complemented, which has actually happened now. On Slovenian railways it is a major investment, when it comes to investments, it is a huge amount, and it is mainly a certain construction operation which has several years of time dynamics. However, the law that we have before us has not regulated these funds for the entire period of a certain investment. In this respect, it was also necessary to supplement this legal provision that financing for such an investment could also be regulated in the case of funds earmarked from the European Union. The proposer then imagined that this would not be necessary because he had experience only and only with the resources of the budget, which of course is not the same in cases where an investment by a law which has a systemic source of funding. That is why it seems important and right for us to accept this supplement, despite the fact that the proposer, namely the Government, has put the National Assembly in time of distress, because the law had to be dealt with and adopted on the home committee at night. In the SDS Group, we are aware that funding for public rail infrastructure is of paramount importance and that is why we have joined. It is true, however, that when we are talking about investing in public rail infrastructure, it is necessary to reiterate that in the past these funds have been too small from different sources, most from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as well as from the source of European funds, to compare the tracks of Slovenian railways with our competition. We have come so far that the railway infrastructure is somewhere on the edge of endurance still the normal weight of the base load. The fact is that some of the loads are due to axle loads, because due to the underinvestment in public rail infrastructure and also in the provision of rail safety, some operators have actually operated on us. This means further deterioration of the infrastructure on Slovenian railways, which is an additional reason why such financing must be regulated by supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure. If ever, Slovenian railways may now be at a time when there are constant warnings and, above all, constant neglect of public rail infrastructure, which could already include some of the extraordinary events on Slovenian railways, as well as accidents that occur at road-rail crossings, as this is also part of the railway infrastructure. Only yesterday's case showed that the truck was simply unable to recover due to an unregulated road-rail crossing and there was a serious railway accident. As we say, we will support the proposal in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u204	Thank you. Mag. Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian National Party, we support any change that contributes to a more effective and fair implementation of the laws. With the applicable Law on the provision of funds for investments in public railway infrastructure, a dedicated source has been set up to finance investments in railway infrastructure. According to the Government, the fundamental purpose of amending the law is to be the rigidity of financial legislation in the implementation of investments in public rail infrastructure. The latter provides that it is only possible to assume commitment from dedicated resources when dedicated resources are actually chosen. In the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely not interfere with the implementation of investments in public rail infrastructure. According to the Government, it is primarily a matter of paying contractual obligations to purchase land for the implementation of the project of the second railway track Divac-Koper. By adopting the amendment of the law, the Ministry of Transport will thus be able to sign contracts for the full value of the project, even though it will not be on the dedicated item at the time of availability and will also allow for further development of rail transport. For this reason, we will, of course, support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. But there are some other questions that are being asked. Why are we accepting a change of law for the last five minutes? What else does the outgoing government have to do with this change of law? Will the stepmotherly attitude of Slovenian Railways towards the country and citizens also be demonstrated this time? Let me remind you of Thursday's fire along the railway line in Primorska, where railway servicemen at Dol did not want to start a fire. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that this work of the Slovenian Railways will truly end once and for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-48.ana.u206	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 12 October 2011, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Choir, which will be resumed tomorrow at 12 noon. Good night and thank you for participating.
