ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole by 3 p.m., Dušan Kumer by 2 p.m., Dr. Laszlo Göncz from 11.30 p.m., Breda Pecan from 14.30 p.m., Janja Klasinc, mag. Melita Župevc, Tadej Slapnik, Zvonko Lah, Roberto Battelli, Jakob Presječnik and Joško Godec. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the application of public remedies within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Now I should give my word to the government's representative. If he's on his way, if he's on his way from Lendava, he's not. Just a minute. The minister's on his way in, so he's coming. We'll wait. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for understanding. The law on the exercise of rights from public funds was adopted at a meeting on 15 July 2010 and should apply on 1 June this year, or on certain rights on 1 September this year, and the proposed amendments and additions propose the expiry of the application of the law on 1 January 2012, i.e. four or seven months, depending on the right. The main reasons for the change in the application of the law are the delay in the final development of the real estate valuation model to be established in November 2011 – the formal evaluation of these properties – the delay in the establishment of the central register of participants in education and education in higher education and in education, and the third time in the finalisation of the legal text in order to facilitate the implementation of the law – the need for certain amendments or additions to certain provisions has been demonstrated when the information system of social work centres was built. The main solutions contained in this amendment are: As one of the rights from public funds, the right to reduce the payment of kindergartens is also mentioned, which is applied by parents to the first child involved in kindergarten. However, since the sectoral legislation governing the issue of kindergartens provides that any further child involved in kindergarten has the right to be released, the amendment of the law gives the power of the Centre for Social Work to decide on this right under the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. For both so-called health rights, this is the right to cover the difference between the full value of health services and the right to pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance, the proposed amendments improve the legal text and, in the interests of the beneficiaries of these two rights, provide that the social work centre shall decide on these two additional rights when a person exercises the right to financial social assistance, unless it expressly declares that he does not wish to exercise those rights. Since some of the rights of public funds are related to the fulfilment of conditions and the eligibility of monetary social assistance, it is necessary to adapt and supplement the provision governing the beginning and the period of receipt of those rights and to provide that when determining the material situation, taking into account income, these rights relating to monetary social assistance take into account the income under the law governing social security benefits, which is more favourable for the parties. Since the beneficiary must fulfil the conditions for eligibility of public funds throughout the period of receipt or the duration of the exercise of rights or subsidies, the proposed amendments constitute only the completion or additional illumination of the fact-finding procedure which proves that the beneficiary still fulfils the conditions for receiving benefits from public funds. The provisions governing the acquisition or transfer of public servants who, at municipalities or housing funds, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, are supplemented. In view of the limited financial resources, including as a result of the non-admission of the Small Work Act, by the school year 2013/2014, all those students – i.e. to the State grant – will be eligible for the scholarship, over 18 years of age and students whose average monthly income per person does not exceed 53 % of the net average salary. It is also necessary to empower the centres for social work to also conduct re-dosing procedures and to continue receiving the State grant for each new school and study year, and to provide that those students who already have the State grant will not be able to meet the 18-year age requirement at the beginning of the application of the law until this condition is met. Nevertheless, I should like to point out that this new threshold for granting a state grant also substantially extends the scope of those beneficiaries who will receive a state grant compared to those who receive it today. Therefore, once again, the main reason for moving forward with the implementation of this Act is that, in individual cases, the information environment has not been regulated, the information base, which is crucial to the proper allocation of rights from public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u4	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 29th emergency session of 10. 5. In 2011, he considered the draft law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the proposal under the urgent procedure. The College has confirmed the procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. At its meeting, the Committee drew up its opinion at key points. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented at the meeting by its representative. The Commission supports the draft law with comments. The proposed law was tabled by the SLS Group and the Social Democrats' parliamentary groups, Zares, DeSUS and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, following the opinions and recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service in the amendments. Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, introduced a complementary explanation of the bill. The debate on individual proposed solutions highlighted the view that there is still too much ambitious deadline for the application of the bill, which was highlighted at the time of the adoption of the basic law last year. The members and members of the Committee and the invited members paid the highest attention to the provisions governing the right to a protective allowance, which the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds provides as one of the social benefits. Some discussers felt that this regulation regulates equal treatment of all social groups and thus improves the situation of certain groups, particularly farmers and craftsmen, who have so far been in a worse position with regard to the right to a protective allowance. Others pointed out that the transfer of the protective allowance to the system of social security benefits and its attachment to the material position of an individual and to the right of the State to return on the basis of the prohibition on the disposal and burden of the property he owns for a long period of time constituted a general deterioration of the situation of the recipients of that supplement. It was also pointed out that the price of eligibility for the State grant had been tightened. It was pointed out that last year's solutions represent a simplification of the system of social transfers, depending on the material situation of the family, greater transparency and greater efficiency and less potential for abuse. The Committee adopted all amendments prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, but did not adopt the amendments of the SLS Group, which have become irrelevant. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good morning! The new way of exercising the thirteen rights from public funds, which should be put into practice and put into effect the first one in the coming month, requires the establishment of a single entry point and a central register of public funds rights and the links between the competent decision-making authority in information systems containing decisive data affecting the eligibility of individual rights. The new concept and functioning of the social transfer system will change and strengthen the work at the social work centre, as it is also passed on to decision making on matters that were now in the domain of the local communities and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. At the time of the adoption of the law last year, warnings or concerns were heard about the possibility of implementing both social laws, in particular with regard to the establishment of all necessary records, as well as on the transfer of new powers to social work centres and on the transfer of personnel from a designated authority to centres. In the DeSUS Group, at the time of the calculation of the time available to adapt each support system to the new concept of the exercise of social rights, we considered that there was every possibility that by the beginning of the envisaged application of the laws all information bases and data records would be prepared and functional. With regard to the transfer of powers and staff adjustments, we had no doubt that they could not be accepted. In short, nine or ten months should, according to our assessment, be more than enough time to harmonise so-called technical conditions for the entry into force of laws. Of course, it is a mistake to be human, so we will support this amendment, which translates the applicability of the law to 2012, but by then, of course, we expect that the new human resources organisation will be successfully established and that all the necessary records will be prepared and the information system will be well-functioning and, of course, tested, so that the implementation of the laws will run smoothly and the procedures for the allocation of rights will be carried out in a qualitative and fair manner. The law is being corrected in some places with a view to clarifying and clarifying the content, and it is being substantially amended by tightening the initial price for obtaining a state grant, namely, by the school year 2013/2014, the limit instead of 64 % of the net average income per family member should be reduced to 53%. This calculated approximately means that the price will increase by around 100 euros for two years and the number of beneficiaries will decrease significantly according to the forecast at the time of setting the initial price. In view of the existing arrangements, this provisional price is still more favourable to the existing price of about €40 or €50. Members of our delegation note that this is another austerity measure that will affect the middle layer of our population. Even though we are not inclined to do this, as we generally do not agree with saving in the budget at the expense of the people and the poorer social, economic quality of their lives, we will support the novel because the first June basis for the actual application of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources is not in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The objective of the last year's Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds is to be a more transparent and simpler system of social transfers, which would allow those who really need it to receive assistance. It is also intended to prevent the exploitation and abuse of the system. In practice, it has always been, and even today, shown that there are going to be and I believe that there will be many abuses in the future. The reason is not only in the provisions of the law, but in the poor and ineffective control of the rights conferred under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. The legislator's objective by means of a new proposal for a law is to be a single record of all 13 rights arising from public funding. The application of the law, as we have already heard, will be carried out with delay. One reason is to adopt the real estate valuation model, which is expected to be established in November 2011, which we have already seen in the accepted notice of the Geodetec Authority of the Republic of Slovenia that it is absolutely unrealistic, so we believe that the valuation model will have to be complemented. As a result, it is expected that the expiry date for the application of the law will be extended. The second reason why the entry into force is to establish a central register of participants in education and education and higher education, which has any impact on the establishment of an information system to support the implementation of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources. The problem was also highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that the proposed amendment should be in force before 1 June of this year, or that it will not be possible to extend the application of the law until 1 January 2012. With the proposed application delay, the transition to a new system of decision-making and allocation of rights from public funds is expected to be carried out more quickly, with less backlogs and also easier for those who will conduct decision-making procedures on public funds. However, the application of the latter raises a number of questions. In particular, it is unacceptable that the country will once again, as a result of its poor technical and organisational scheme, do the most harm to target the most socially vulnerable groups, as a result of poor planning and non-compliance with the rest of the legislation in certain areas will lead to a legal void. It also raises the issue of the quality implementation of the proposed law, as the competences exercised by individual municipalities up to now are transferred to local competent social work centres. Given the fact that the centres for social work have already carried out their work and tasks extremely poorly, we believe that in the Slovenian National Party's Group, additional burdens and new tasks will only add to their workload and employment, and the quality of their work will certainly only be worse. So far, the experience of social work centres' clients has been, for the most part, poor or unprofessional. Many say, however, that staff members who are supposed to be specially qualified to handle social problems are still sent from door to door or simply let them wait outside the door. The expertise of employees at social work centres is at the lowest point, which is particularly evident in many dramatic stories of Slovenian families and individuals. It is also incomprehensible that the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the proposed law, which stipulate that applicants — investors — must respect the order of individual rights. If the applicant fails to take this order into account, that right shall be taken into account in determining his material position as having exercised it. How, then, should it be understood that the law is based on the principle that a person must apply all the possibilities available to him in order to improve his material position and the situation of his family? In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that certain provisions of the proposed law are unnecessary and some are unclear and even harmful. Therefore, we will not support the proposal under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! As already mentioned, the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds entered into force on 14 August last year and was to apply from 1 June this year, with the exception of provisions relating to the State grant, reduced payment of kindergartens, the subsidy for lunches for pupils and pupils, the subsidy for lunches for pupils and the subsidy for transport for pupils and students to be applied on 1 September this year. The objective of the adopted law last year is more transparent and a simpler system of social transfers for users, which will allow those who really need it to receive help. It will prevent the exploitation and abuse of the system while at the same time simplifying the exercise of individual rights and providing incentives for individuals to actively address their situations and actively integrate into society. The solutions adopted represent a simplification of the system of social transfers depending on the material situation of the family, its greater transparency and greater efficiency, and a smaller possibility of abuse. The law will allow the uniform exercise of all 13 rights from public funds by establishing a central register of rights from public funds and linking information systems, by establishing a single decision-making place, by uniting elements affecting the decision on social rights, by changing the criteria for eligibility of social rights, including incentives for employment or active social inclusion of recipients. The effective application of the law requires the establishment of a central register of rights from public funds and it is necessary to obtain data on this right that such data are provided and accessible at all sources and that the system is well-functioning and also tested before its application begins. At the LDS Club, we unitedly supported Jakan on the exercise of rights from public funds, because we were and are still convinced that the law brings a simpler and more user-friendly system, which is transparent, efficient and publicly sustainable. For us, the key advantages of this law are the fact that everything is regulated in one place, which is more user-friendly and rational for the country, while at the same time reducing the possibility of duplication or abuse. It is crucial for our Member Club that the rights of this law are granted to all who belong to them, that the help be given to those who really need it and that the abuse of the system be prevented, as we have unfortunately witnessed in the past. Today, we have before us a new law that is six months behind the entry into force of the law from 1 June to 1 January 2012. The reasons for the later entry into force of the law are mainly related to the delay in the creation of some key records and to the organisational complexity of the implementation of the law. The identification of property as one of the elements for the decision on social rights is crucial for the implementation of the new law and the delay in the final development of the real estate valuation model to be established in November 2011 is linked to the proposed delay in the implementation of the law. The establishment of participants in vertical education is also lagging behind. Thus, the central register of participants in education and education is expected to be established in the autumn of this year and the central register of participants in higher education is expected to be available at the beginning of next year. With the proposed delay in the application of the law, it is expected that the transition to a new system of decision-making and allocation of rights from public funds will be carried out in a qualitative manner, with fewer problems, delays and also easier for those who will conduct decision-making procedures on public funds. In preparing the conditions for the entry into force of the law, however, there have been even smaller legal shortcomings that need to be addressed in order to facilitate implementation and some other amendments and additions to certain provisions of the law have been proposed. We have always advocated the transparent and effective functioning of the State and its institutions at the LDS. Since we have recognized the qualities associated with these views in the marriage, we have also supported the marriage. We will also support today's amendment, because we are convinced that it is essential for the functioning of the State and its institutions that all the necessary conditions for the implementation of the normative framework adopted by this National Assembly are provided. Since these conditions on the provision of responsible services and ministries will be supplemented by the start of next year, we will support the implementation of the law at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u12	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Let me say that last year we adopted two so-called inseparable laws that we adopted with affection. We have also provided our votes in favour of these laws in the Group of Non-Aligned Members for simple reasons. Because, for the first time, we thought that the proposed laws were reducing the risk of poverty. We were convinced that the level of social security was increasing and the social network in our country was strengthening. We were confident and still today that some benefits or social transfers will increase and that the circle of those who will be entitled to them will be larger. In addition, we were satisfied with the forecast that the accumulation of transversals and possible further abuse of our legislation would be prevented. At that time, we were also convinced that the foretold deadlines were realistic, and we had no qualms about the adoption of these two laws. However, it is only fair today to admit that at the time of last year's adoption there were some reasons, some concerns that we cannot say to them anymore today, because they have become a fact. It may also be good to say that these concerns were listed first in the Legislative and Legal Service and the Social Chamber, i.e. in the professional institutions, and that the policy then summed up these concerns and so on adopted them and today interprets them as its concerns. As far as the deadlines are concerned, the Social Chamber clearly noted the urgency and so did the Law-Legal Service last year. As far as databases are concerned, a number of warnings and questions have been given as to whether this is really possible or not. The legislative and legal service has also raised concerns about the understanding and coherence of both laws. Thus, if top experts have had such concerns, what problems are there for those who are not the ones who are the ones who are not the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the This too is said to be an obvious observation worth considering. Today, however, it is no longer possible to change, since we should even change the philosophy of both laws. There were also considerations regarding the ownership and transfer of invalidity allowances from one law to a law dealing with social transfers. All these concerns, which were not taken into account last year, have been repeated in the debate on the novel this year. This is particularly due to the fact that it is essential to think when warnings are given and not only to pursue good intentions, but also to give real meaning to individual marriage proposals, which we consider to be good and acceptable to all. We will, of course, support this novelty in this process. As far as deadlines are concerned, it is not possible to actually have any other logical solution than to support it because it cannot be implemented as we planned at the time. As far as content is concerned, however, there are some improvements, either for improvements in the admission of each next child to kindergarten or for improvements, as regards compulsory health insurance and the payment of health service differences, or for some other solutions. Some, however, are worthy of further consideration. Especially those with regard to student scholarships, where we have concerns and will listen to today's re-explanation for the Slovenian People's Party amendment and the Ministry's response, because we feel that, for the first time, it should be guaranteed – and we do not know this today – that the children's allowances will not be lower than the scholarships they receive today. Secondly, we do not think that this is the best way to break free from the independence and independence of young people. And thirdly, we don't know if a combination of a child supplement and a scholarship would be a better solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u14	Hello again! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds was adopted by Members and Members at the 19th regular meeting of the National Assembly last July. At that time, all parliamentary groups at the principal level expressed an extremely high level of political consensus on the solutions brought by law. The adoption of the law brings a system of social transfers that will be simple, transparent and fair. In some ways, it represents a real reform of the entire social security transfer system. The aim of the law, which should be applied in June, is to achieve, inter alia, a better target for social transfers, with the aim of achieving appropriate social assistance, including higher aid, for those members of our society who are truly needed, while at the same time ensuring that the law reduces the possibility of abuse. As far as the implementation of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources is concerned, the Social Democrats have already pointed out at the time of the hearing in the National Assembly that the new system, whose introduction we are undoubtedly supporting, will be extremely difficult to implement in such a short time. In order to ensure the uniform application of all 13 public funds rights, central registers of public funds rights and the integration of information systems into one decision-making place must be established. As we have heard, it is a link between 48 databases, which are not exclusively in the domain of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which also lacks comprehensive control. The second objective is to simplify the elements affecting the decision on social rights and, thirdly, to amend the eligibility criteria for social rights, including incentives for employment or active social inclusion of recipients. It has turned out, as we normally plan in offices, that, in order to successfully carry out all the necessary procedures and to introduce a more equitable system of social transfers, it is necessary to postpone the implementation of the law. With the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, we propose to suspend the application of the law on 1 January 2012. With the beginning of the application of the law, the transition to a new system of decision-making and allocation of rights from public funds is expected to be better achieved, with fewer problems, backlogs and also easier for those who will lead the decision-making processes on public funds. We believe that with the effective implementation of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, we will also make more effective and fairer allocations and direct social transfers, so that those people and the people of our country who really need them will receive them. Amendments to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds will also be supported. However, we will not be dismayed if life comes and shows that further changes are needed. It is indeed a real small revolution in social transfers and therefore life needs to be adapted again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! One year ago, we discussed the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. So that's the same law. At that time, we made clear in the Slovenian Democratic Party our doubts about the timely implementation of the provisions of the bill, until then the envisaged application of this law, that is to say up to 1. 6. 2011, which will be 14 days from now. We have highlighted new competences, notably the transfer of staff to social work centres and the ability to establish all necessary records in a timely manner. In view of the adoption of the amendment by emergency procedure, we find that our warnings were justified at the time. In the material, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs stated that the reasons for the later start of implementation are mainly related to the delay in the creation of some key records and to the organisational complexity of performance. You're talking about transfer of personnel, education, provision of space and so on. You also wrote that there has been a delay in the design of the real estate valuation model. And you continue that the law introduces major organizational changes in the work of social work centres, that you have not yet transferred the staff from the municipalities and carried out the education and did not provide additional facilities and equipment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask what you have actually done in one year. Not much, apparently. Why is this information important? One year ago, we pointed out this and received the following assurances from the minister: I quote from the magnetogram: "We are both leading a project board with the Minister of Public Administration who is carrying out this very important development task, and we believe that, in view of the course of events, everything will also be ready in good time to connect around 48 databases according to the current record, so that they will also be accessible online to advisers at social work centres. According to the implementation plan, this system will start operating at the end of February 2011. It is not a system that we fully establish from nothing, since the current so-called information system of social work centres connects all those bases relating to remuneration to transfers that the centres have already allocated to individuals and includes six databases, so that we do not doubt the expertise of experts" and so on. End of story. Why am I telling this story? Since we had already predicted in the Slovenian Democratic Party that you had set yourself too optimistic goals. We agreed with the objectives of the law, which was adopted a year ago, because it was supposed to bring greater transparency, introduce a simpler system of social transfers and allow those who really need it. It is intended to avoid the use of the system and, above all, to simplify the exercise of individual rights. In view of the reasons for the amendments to the law tabled at the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that the main and only reason is, in fact, a crime or inability to manage a bureaucratic apparatus at ministries, not only at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but at all those responsible for applying these records. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 1. 2012, too ambitious because we doubt the creation of the required records. It is also a matter of meeting all the staffing and spatial requirements related to the extended competences of social work centres in a timely manner. However, I would like to point out another substantive change. It is unacceptable that the price for eligibility of the State grant is changing until the beginning of the 2013/2014 study year. The limit instead of the 64 accepted is set at 53 % of the net average salary per family member, which means that the beneficiaries of the scholarships will be significantly less than the number with which you, the coalition, boast after the press conferences. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because of all the above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Res – New Policy Group last year, we have already supported this new law, which provides for a single entry point for receiving social transfers. This is a way of enforcing rights from public funds that will prevent the unjustified accumulation of these funds while ensuring a more efficient and transparent functioning of the whole system. Above all, it is important that the law is easy for the user to exercise individual rights easily and provides incentives for individuals to actively address their situation and actively integrate into society. During that time we were able to hear different opinions about the inappropriate speed of law enforcement due to different bases, the transfer of powers to social work centres and so on. In the Group of Members, we really hope that, if I simplify, we will be able to take appropriate action in the 21st century in order to bring the law to life on 1st June of this year and not on 1st January of the next, which is one of the reasons for the introduction of this novel and for today's consideration of the law. The law, as it is said, allows the uniform application of all 13 rights by establishing a central register of rights and linking information systems with the establishment of one decision-making venue, by uniting elements affecting the decision, by changing the criteria for eligibility to social rights, including incentives for employment or active social inclusion of recipients. So today we have before us a proposal to end the application of the law, by which we wish to enable users to move to a new system of enforcement of these rights, since the bill has included in the novel some of the minor legal improvements that are needed in order to facilitate the implementation of the law. Probably one of the most important reasons for the novelty is the non-admission of the Small Work Act, which makes it impossible, by the school year 2013/2014, to provide sufficient funding for the implementation of the law to the extent adopted. It is therefore necessary to amend the eligibility of the State grant by allowing students over 18 years of age to benefit from the scholarship by 2013/2014 and students whose average monthly income per person or family member does not exceed 53% of the net average wage. Clearly, each stick has two ends. And it is clear that accepting or in this case rejecting certain marriage proposals simply entails certain consequences that directly affect an individual or family. The bag called the state budget is not bottomless. Those who have "good" suggestions on how to empty this bag are not missing. Those who have any constructive proposal on how to fill this bag can be counted on the fingers of one hand, and of course they are not very popular. To conclude, given that this is on the one hand a decommissioning in order to improve the implementation of the law and the improvement of the legal provisions on the other, the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds will be adopted in the Member Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u20	Hello! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group a year ago, when we adopted the law in the position, we asked why it was necessary to rush and deal with the laws of extraordinary meetings, without coordination with the social partners, without a wider public debate. What's the big rush problem? We changed the rights and provisions that were 20 years old to a quick and left hand. So we are not surprised that the government is coming before us with changes. Let me repeat the words of my colleague the Presecnik, who marked the rapid implementation of the new social laws last year with the words "impossible mission". However, we are pleased, of course, that the enforcement of the laws is moving back to 2012. We are even less excited Members of the Slovenian People's Party now that the amendment of the law originally contained only corrections to procedures that were inconsistent, which the social work centres and Members had warned us about last year, and we were overheard. We are pleased that at least some of the amendments have been adopted on the Committee, so that the laws will be enforceable at all. While we strongly agree in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that structural changes are necessary and necessary, we agree that it is necessary to prevent the accumulation of social benefits for those who take advantage of the system by playing with them and thus get more than those who work. In doing so, we note that we cannot do so by causing new injustices and without analysis and consequences. By buying social peace in this way in the long term, we will not save the social treasury, so I stress that despite the support to establish order in the field of social benefits, we will certainly not support the Slovenian People's Party's Group and we cannot agree with the abolition of the state scholarship for students and the abolition of the state pension. That is why we are filing a supplement to the law and propose that by 2013 and 2014 the state scholarship should remain for students over 15 years of age. In her explanation, the Government stated last year that both social laws are linked to the starting points of the pension reform, and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we add that they are also linked to the policy of scholarship, and in particular to the way in which the assets of the applicants are determined, which is included in the income. The new restrictions will mainly affect people from rural areas who will not be entitled to social assistance and not to state scholarships and will also lose child allowances. Such changes will have long-term implications for the education of young people and consequently for rural development. Therefore, we suggest that at least students' scholarships remain, so that we do not take the opportunity of young people to get an education. Whether we will support the law, we will decide in the Slovenian People's Party's Group if we get the appropriate explanations and answers to the dilemmas put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 5. 2011. We are moving on to Article 16 and I am putting Article 16 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to talk? Yes, please, Mr. Janez Ribič and Bogdan Barovich. Janez Fishich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. New social legislation will hurt a lot of people. But the most long-term consequences will be if we stop helping students, if we stop the possibility of receiving a state scholarship. The law on scholarships is still on the table, so there is a chance to complete it. Members of the Slovenian People's Party disagree with the abolition of state scholarships for students. Therefore, the amendment proposes that the number 18, 18 years, in the text of Article 16, which amends Article 23 of the Law, be changed to 15, 15 years. This means that until the beginning of the school year 2013/2014, Slovenian citizens aged at least 15 are eligible for the scholarship. The abolition of the student scholarship will have a negative impact on raising education, which is a condition for the faster development and competitiveness of our country. The most affected children will be because the scholarships are intended for them, not for parents, while the children's allowance is intended as a social benefit for parents, to help with maintenance and care for children. Therefore, the children’s allowance cannot replace educational resources – state scholarships. It is also unacceptable to adopt more favourable conditions for the employment of foreigners in our country at the same time, as we have pointed out at the examination of the Employment and Work Act. At the same time, this law and the law on scholarships reduce the chances for the youngest citizens to be educated, as they are less likely to obtain a state grant. I'm sure it'll hurt the poorest students. It is especially difficult for parents and students from remote places who do not have access to education, and parents do not have the resources to provide them with the necessary education. At present, secondary education is at least what young people need if they want to get a job in growing competition in the European labour market. Students from 15 years of age are also supported by youth organisations and institutions, as well as the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has Bogdan Barovic
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Since we are talking about the amendment to Article 16, let me say that we absolutely support it in the Slovenian National Party. But I will start with this – well if we have to – now we are talking about the law by emergency procedure – that I am sure there is no basis for an emergency procedure. None, according to the rules of procedure. None. Scholarships not proposed by this law are not intended for parents to go to the store with them, but are intended for students to be offered studies. Instead of allowing this country and the competent ministry, in this case for education, to achieve at least 80 or 70 % of the secondary education of all Slovenes and Slovenes in due course – we cut it down, we destroy it. Especially is it painful for us to find time, will and money, on the other hand, to improve foreign living conditions, working conditions, conditions for education, conditions for I don't know what. That is exactly what we do – give and improve the conditions for their lives, stay, work in the Republic of Slovenia, home, secondary school, children aged 15 to 18 years, and take money. That's right. A colleague said, "the state cash register isn't bottomless, so somebody tell us how we're gonna get this money." Who the hell is in government?Oh, my God! Tell the government to find it and tell it! As for child transport subsidies, I'll tell you how. When I was the mayor, despite the subsidies that children, students and students had, I knew from my own budget, which was already so modest for socially disadvantaged Zasavje and Trbovlje, still from the municipal budget to find so much money that I gave it to students and students for free transport with local transport through Trbovje. Eight years, you can go check it out. I found so much money from the municipal budget, which was poor, but we were able to deal with it, that we gave the pensioners subsidies or part of the money from the municipal bus budget. The mayor, like the Prime Minister, the executive branch of power, has to deal with what he has. But we did it, and we didn't have much. I don't know why this government can't. Why take students the possibility of scholarships according to the social situation in this country? No one condemns you or is good, you know for yourself how much this government is responsible for this social situation, but in such a case it is necessary to help where it is, colleagues have already told you where it really is necessary to educate young people. We all talk young, young, young. They need help. They need to be given that option. You should. And you need to find this one. [[...]] If we can, colleagues, the congregation has 18,000 inhabitants, we have found it. This country would also find this money for students and could pay scholarships peacefully to students, as well as subsidies for transport, which are part of it. And by the way, just one more sentence, because mostly I was just talking about Article 16 – again a comparison from the congregation. When people went to social work centres, they sent them peacefully to the congregation, and we're back in the same way, and I don't know what miracles, but from the municipal budgets, a little bit around the provinces, helped these people because they don't have a social work centre, because he said, "Article 16, point 13, says so, you don't do it, you don't run home!" I really feel sorry for those poor people who are only going to social work right now. Even those who will go there who have helped, that is, the congregations that have helped these poor ones, but from their budget, as far as they can, will be without it. But the center will work as hard as it is. He will reject people, act like a drunkard fence of every letter and comma, and people will have an even bigger problem and these problems will affect even bigger social transfers. These larger social transfers will lead us even deeper. It's a story like this, whether you believe it or not. With all due respect to your efforts and your attempts to help people. As for the students, think about it. Think about it. Let us see that in 2020 we will have 60, 70% of all Slovenes and Slovenes with secondary education, not to look at having as few as possible. I know political systems, and the former Yugoslavia was one when they exploited an ignorant nation because the ignorant nation is a obedient nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Just to read you the list of applicants, then we'll give you an application if we have to. Alenka Jeraj, Marian Pojbich, mag. Majda Potrate and Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u27	Just give me a second, then I'll file a report after this first round, okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u28	Something has already been said about why we adopt law by emergency procedure. I don't agree with that either. It has been clear for some time now that the law will not be able to enter into force in the way it was intended, as some were warned at the time of the first adoption, i.e. one year ago. The idea of law and purpose is, of course, positive and we supported it, because it will certainly mean less abuse, the system will be more transparent and easier to control. But it's stuck, like most of the things we do in this country or whatever that government does. And I wonder if the law will be able to be enforced by 1. 1. 2012. In fact, you assume that only the central register of participants in education and education will be established in the autumn, then higher education only in the following year. We know that there can be a delay, a month or two, and also a 1. 1. 2012 we will not be able to implement these changes. In addition, the amendment or this law is also bound by the law on scholarships. It is also one of the systems that should be stable and you cannot change it every few years, so also such resistance by those who are supposed to carry out things, social work centres and someone else, because it is difficult to start doing things qualitatively if everything is only about and they don't even know when they're going to have all the conditions to start doing things. Of course, then people’s anger and bad will will always come to grips with those social workers who will not be able to do certain things, some procedures. And we will speak in general again that they are ineffective, that they do not try, that they do not work, and so on, while we have not prepared for them the very essence of the system they need to do their work in a quality manner. The grant law you're proposing is bringing in a whole bunch of new stuff. Foundations that will cost something again – instead of spending this money on scholarships, we take them here to juvenile students, which we do not agree with. In addition, you write that a model of valuation of real estate is to be developed, which is to be established in November 2011 – a month again, two delays, and we will not have it with 1.1. All of this reminds me of the change in the rules on kindergartens, when I was still working in the congregation, and I was preparing decisions to facilitate children in kindergartens, when we introduced the rules to take into account the car, for example, among the assets, and then we assessed how much golf and similar things were worth, or we usually just believed what he said because we were not qualified for it, and the thing seemed really funny. We'll probably be dealing with similar things here. The assessment of the value of the property in Ljubljana or in some Haloza is probably a big difference. And we will once again set up a system or some way that will be least unfair, which is a problem if they are not all the same conditions, because we have many things written in the Constitution about equality and so on. What is problematic to me is what we have pointed out about scholarships for underage students, so I will support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. I think it was a rather unthinkable solution that will actually take scholarships to those most in need from remote places, low incomes, because, of course, the grant is given to those who have low incomes or low income families and to the student who comes from such a family. And to say that they will therefore be higher children’s allowances — it is not calculated that this will be the case, at least not at this point in time, such as the scholarship that, for example, the student receives or receives at this point in time. Therefore, as I say, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. I hope that we will be able to prepare by the end of the year all that is necessary for the marriage to be with 1. 1. 2012 entered into force and we will not introduce anything, and then we will find out what is wrong, and things like this will happen to us if you remember when we moved scholarships to social work centres, what was going on in some areas. In short, because of those who make such laws, things should be prepared in a quality and timely manner. However, I agree that this is difficult many times, but that is why it is necessary to give ourselves real hands when we introduce something, but not sometimes to rush for some plus point in some kind of campaign.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In opening, I must say that the proposal we have on the table today is another kind of nonsense proposed by the current government. Another type of nonsense suggested by the current government! And please let the Minister answer my question: What are the scholarships and what is the children's allowance? And to whom is the child’s allowance intended, and to whom are the scholarships intended? I'm sure the children's allowance is a support to the maintenance and care of the child, but the scholarship is the one that helps the child study. And I'm also quite sure there's another attack on the periphery here with this law. A re-attack on the periphery, because there are always key problems, right on the periphery where the children are away from the educational centers. And those kids have the biggest problems. In addition, there are mostly parents who are worse off than those who live in urban centres. And if Mr Minister thinks that by adding or increasing the child allowance, I am sure he is very wrong, because I am sure that the child allowance may be higher than €50 – or perhaps the exact number is now difficult to predict – while the scholarship should be at least €150, or maybe some euro more. [[...]] And it is clear from this alone that it is again a matter of saving and re-implementing the state budget, rather than following the key and basic objectives of our society. This is: if we want to develop this society, we urgently need quality-educated personnel, and we can achieve this in a way that enables young people to study properly. And with this law and with such solutions, when we abolish scholarships to students from the 15th to the 18th years, we certainly do not pursue this crucial goal. Surely we are not following this key objective! And that is why I will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, which also identifies us in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we are confident, and I will repeat once again – that this is another kind of nonsense proposed by the current government! And to put it this way, we have a chance to see what the current society is like, how people live in this society – we have 120 or more thousand unemployed, people, most pensioners live on the edge of survival with 400, 500 or more, and most employees are on the verge of survival, almost unable to survive and so on and so forth. And these are the arguments that claim that this government, through its three years of running this country, takes stupidity to Cuba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. There's a Master Maja Potrat's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! In opening, I must say that I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 16. Although the amendment seems very modest, it only speaks of the number 18 being replaced by the number 15 and essentially interfering with the concept of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. It is the fact that the children's allowance is the first among the rights of public funds, which is also a positioned and hierarchical right, and the importance we attach to the current coalition of ensuring adequate social security in the family and the assistance of the country of the family is also that the children's allowance is put first. Year 18 is not selected by chance, but an intervention or reference to the status of a child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which takes account of a child under the age of 18. And deception is if you fear that the social risk of families will be greater because of this, because it will also be appropriate to adjust the height of the child allowance according to the social situation of the family. If you look at the chart in the basic law, then you see that they will not be at a disadvantage in income. A very populist statement that the law abolishes scholarships is, of course, a major manipulation, because for high school students they remain in effect of Zois's scholarship, staff scholarships and those for deficit jobs, which means that the right to transfer from one transfer to another is only the right to a state grant. So it only changes the name of the transfer, the height adjusts. Now, to other words, which have also been mentioned, it is necessary to react to them because they are misleading. The discussion was about how some solutions were not well thought out and that they were causing problems in realisation, and it was also mentioned how scholarships had moved to social work centres, but probably those who remembered that it was the decision of the previous government, but that the government had already had to change the level of censorship. There was a lot of talk about what the congregations or local communities must do instead of the country. I'm sorry, but I would expect from the mayor of two mandates, as well as any other Member and Members of Parliament, to know the obligations of local communities and why we give such importance to local communities. I would like to remind you of article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which imposes on local communities the social security concerns of citizens and citizens, and I will not mention what they need to do – from child protection to care for the disabled – if only this body of security for particularly important vulnerable groups I mention. However, I cannot, of course, go through very much with easily altered and misleading data on education. When some parties proposed a compulsory secondary school, data were also published that compulsory secondary schools as a requirement of some exceptional importance do not even need to be cited, as 90 % of the population is already covered in secondary education. Indeed, we still have about 10% of the population lost, but this is one of the lowest percentages in Europe. What colleague Barovic was talking about, however, is of course the level of education of the entire population, which is due to what we had at different age levels so far, is cumulative data. But if we look at the current population and the current population, as we say, we have one of the highest percentages of the population covered in secondary education. Let me say that then there are special programmes for those young people who left early education and it was very interesting that in the golden days of this country, subsidisation and funding were reduced precisely those programmes which were intended for the education of these young people who had left education early for a variety of reasons. So when you give information and refer to one another, it is only good to know why. But I don't know how it's been found that this law has not been harmonised. However, the high level of support was also expressed in this Act in the National Assembly, and the urgency or justification of the emergency procedure was decided in college and later in the National Assembly, so I do not think it indicates that the law is now being adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I was misunderstood; it's good to say why I'm replicating. Of course, I know that Mrs Majda Pótt also knows that I know and can read the letters of the law, but she didn't understand me. In the municipality as mayor – I believe that someone else – besides what the duty of the local community, besides showing the will, found money in a very well-defined budget and gave more money to the students and students, in order to make it easier for them to study that they were serious, that they had an easier way to go to college and to the secondary schools where they went – more than they should have. We've given the same to older people more than we should. We gave them because we made their way to cemeteries and social gatherings easier for them — more than the law imposes. I wanted to have another replica, but I won't now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Replica, Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you. I have no problem saying that something may not have been done well in our mandate, but that is why I wanted to point out this. At that time, we assessed that the social work centres would have no difficulty in transferring the decision on scholarships to them and that the matter would turn out as it should. But there were problems, which means some got scholarships later. We are now transferring much more things to social work centres. And that it is not for those who are recipients of this aid to be entitled to this or to decisions again with some delay, it is good to think things through and work things out first. But it is nice to admit that there have ever been golden times, usually we hear it only in a mocking and sarcastic tone. So we are happy that you have finally come to realize that we have also had golden times in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u37	Now I don't know if there's a reason for joy, but still [[...]] Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I am returning to the ground that we have before us a law that truly brings about radical changes in the exercise of rights from public resources. And that this is such a huge resource that we simply cannot fully control it in cabins and have to adapt to life. That this was indeed a great resource, they probably also knew in the previous government, which had already written the whole law in 2007, but they probably did not have the courage to enforce it. Now I'm moving on to the content of the amendment. I must say that we have discussed these contents very intensively on the Committee, but sometimes we need to listen and also attend meetings of the Committee. By the way, what were we told again? We were once again told that the amount of the State grant or the amount of the State grant is associated with the amount of the child allowance, so that the current child allowance includes the amount of the State grant, thereby increasing the number for the calculation of the child allowance for the student radically. That's the first thing we've been told. The second thing we were told was an analysis of the recipients of scholarships, which confirmed that state scholarships for students concentrated more in the middle of the income scale. And that, in fact, the ones with the lowest income had fewer state scholarships. By making this conversion and increasing the children's allowance – we know that we have an 8-step scale of children's allowances – the lower incomes will receive more. This is said to make it possible for them to study more. Of course, we are always happy with municipal initiatives and additions that make their studies easier for students or students. The third thing I would like to say is that students — even I had a conversation with them — have the biggest problems not with height, but have problems with the children’s allowance being calculated for the family and given to the father or mother. However, they would like to have this amount alone and take responsibility for ensuring appropriate study conditions. Nobody's stopping it. Article 34 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds provides that an agreement can be reached – for example, parents may cancel that amount and this amount is indicated to the student – and I note that this amount will be radically higher than the State grant. But I don't mind because, as I read the Convention on the Rights of the Child, of course, it wants to give greater autonomy to children according to their maturity. If children are able to have these resources and, in fact, to ensure the conditions of education, then I do not mind and, of course, this measure would be popularised and, of course, suggested to students that this should also be used. Maybe that's what happens when people talk about how they want to get their hands on each other. There's nothing he wants to do. If someone had looked at the exact explanation already in the first law, they would have found that the effect of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is the same as that of all the expenditure on social transfers that we are giving today. Indeed, there is something — that focuses or targets on those who need it most. Let's say those things about how farmers are going to be worse, and so on and so forth, I think, what kind of a thing to read! [[...]] On the contrary! On the contrary! As well as the system implemented by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, higher aid will be provided to these categories and will, in fact, be equivalent to others. I don't know, really, it's unbearable to manipulate flossules that sound good. But I still don't think we're going to get far in this society if we keep doing this. I think it is right to be aware of the responsibility we have before citizens and citizens and of what we really want to achieve. And it is right that, just as we have set things up in the past – and I am not saying that your government was not part of this story – that we are actually building a social state in a way that we will support those who need help. Even those that are not included in the current system and need to be found and assisted. However, we prevent those who in some way abuse the system. This, if not another, creates a bad taste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A nice greeting to the minister, a co-worker, and a co-worker! Life is just so that those smart mistakes recognize and eliminate them, and others repeat them. And that's the problem. I respect the Ministry's assessment. And it is right and right that they have told us that they are working to solve problems, that the matter is difficult, and that more time is needed. That is why I will be able to support the proposal of this law without any difficulty. However, I would like to draw attention to a few things in this debate and also ask for specific answers. Of course, it is true that in the valuation of property we are bound to the valuation of real estate. And certainly the property in Ljubljana will be assessed differently than the property in Haloza. In both cases, we'll get some numbers. I don't see any trouble here. Also assessing car value – there are catalogues, averages, with ten, fifteen seconds clicking on the Internet, the real data is obtained after Eurotax. However, I have a few more problems with the county experience, with those properties that many Slovenian citizens in other republics have. Let me tell you one case. Someone who has a property in the congregation does not get an apartment in the congregation. Someone who owns one, two or three properties in a neighboring republic gets an apartment. He gets an apartment, he gets a subsidy, and he gets a bunch of social transfers, but maybe he's still working black in neighbouring Austria. And I expect the detection of such cases. We, as a municipality, have received data from one of the neighbouring republics, who has property there and, of course, those on the priority list for housing units or apartments, because we do not have such a standard as some, privileged, for decades in this country, Slovenia and Slovenia in other countries, and this is to be discovered. Every case needs to be dealt with, maybe even with a detective wire, not from the office, on the ground in particular. I have to say that even when we checked out who lives in municipal nonprofit apartments, we discovered people who had their own apartment before they signed up and sold it to meet the conditions of the invitation to tender. What they did with that money was their right. It is our responsibility, of course, to look into what is going on, and this would, for example, expect even more from the more operational functioning of social work centres. Of course, some also lie to us and deceive us about the number of family members who actually live at that address. That should be arranged, too. You won't believe it, but Slovenian legislation forgives that in some apartment on 40 square meters, we report a hundred people. This allows the application of a permanent residence. But a permanent residence isn't like that. Of course, it is dependent on housing and other social rights, and in addition to your social laws, we must make order in other legislation. Someone who comes from one of the Balkan states will register in Slovenia, that is to say, because Slovenia is a European country, a jumping board for a job, for example, in construction in Austria and Germany, but the time when it is registered in one of the Slovenian municipalities, many social rights belong to him. And he is in a better position when he draws the line at the end of the month than someone who has, say, one of the 500, 600 euros worth of wages or who has a pension. Further, examples from life, from practice. The lady has an apartment house with three apartments. But because she's a little bit special about her wishes and demands, and I admit it, and in this house where three families could live, she lives alone. And we at the Social Work Centre are buying her a heating oil instead of convincing her, "you'll get this thing, but we advise you, sell the house, buy a wardrobe, an apartment or something". What my colleague Barovic said is true. When they find themselves in trouble at the social work centre, and the problem is only quickly solved and postponed, then it is said, "go to the congregation, there you will solve this and this". And that's why I'm happy with this system, and we're already with people. Those who work there will also play a key role in this area of social activity. We agreed, and so in the law we also wrote down that part of the staff from the municipalities is transferred to social work centres, but in the field, I don't know how much you feel in the ministry, the resistance has already begun. They wouldn't take all of them there. Some who have done this work of purely quality and good quality in the congregations may not have formal education are undesirable in those services. And on the contrary, I'm going to be a grave, and there's probably one in this center that has a complete formal education, but in practice there's no cord, no sense, and no responsibility for that work. But this is not the criticism of the average person he is; otherwise, I must say that with the services I work with, we have quite a good and proper relationship. But what I'm saying is that we really have a lot of work to do, dealing with each case individually, changing our thinking, and if we want to do that, then we need to give the minister and his team time, understanding and more. If it doesn't work, but it sounds strange, it's certainly better that if we don't manage everything in January to solve at least something, we start, and then we build one right, one record and so on. Because if we're too hasty, then we can make some kind of mistake that happens in the age of computer science, like ours was an unnecessary, political dispute over the count erased. There, of course, she did her homework and gave the data to the tech, the computer programs, but what the computer does to get out is not always true. But it's our fault that we called him and asked him. Simply, I support the Ministry's initiative, I support it, I remind it, I would say practical, operational shortcomings and unresolved issues, and I am confident that we will be able to resolve them successfully together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u41	The word is Vito Rojej. We are discussing the amendment of Article 16.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. My colleague Saiovic described very nicely and in plastic terms the reasons why this part of the legislation had to be amended. In order to ensure that the funds allocated by the State for social services — and as has already been said — are not smaller than they were some year ago, this is understandable because the crisis also makes the needs greater — that these funds will be properly targeted to go into the right hands, but not, as could have been the case so far, often in the wrong ones. It is clear that, of course, it is true that the state has not been reducing funds in this area. It is true, however, that if new needs arise, as was the case in this case, and what this amendment is talking about, as regards scholarships, that new funds should be found somewhere. And the government – and here my colleague Barovic misunderstood me – was dealing with responsibility here and just imagined that these funds could come from a small part, so that the generation could solidarity – those who will have more and create more, give something to those who have less and need it more. Similarly, of course, decisions that are ahead of us regarding black work or pension reforms; if we decide to work in black, then we will probably not expect social support. Of course, if we don't pay taxes to the country, why would the state help us? And there's probably some basic responsibility in each of us. This country is no longer a bottomless sack, and this country does not have its own coin or money printer anymore and cannot afford anything that a country could have previously afforded. Where this led, they remember all those who lived in the 1980 ’ s and some inflation that went into thousands of percent and so on. This is probably not a way to ensure long-term sustainability. Of course, he could have helped someone to a cheap house, and that's the problem. How can a person get to a cheap house and later, when he is retired in recent years, he receives an average pension and says to himself that he is poor. This seems foolish to me, Comrade Pojbich, but not that the government's proposal is nonsense. If you compare a 60-year-old pensioner with your own apartment and a 30-year-old employee with an average salary, and the pensioner has an average pension, which is really low, and the employee does not have an apartment of his own at the age of 30, then make a nice calculation of what awaits them in the next 35 years. God rest your soul. Who's really the worst here? How can an employee, at 30 years of age, buy an apartment for the next 35 years, as long as he waits for his pension? And how well a pensioner could live with an average pension for the next 35 years if, of course, this apartment, the property would not be sold, cashed, rented, or anything else. Who's the poor guy here? And, of course, we expect a 30-year-old to have at least three more children, because birthing is bad. Please! Who's the poor guy here? And it's this marriage that's the one that's disproportionate to hunger and soft. Many words were also said to return to the amendment, about what it means to change the payment of state scholarships in the form of child allowances to parents or directly to beneficiaries or students. Something has to be said, as has already been said. There are other types of scholarships that students can receive individually. This is state aid, but the state grant is a social adjustment. This one goes in the system we have, the family. Yesterday’s debates on the family code were interesting when we heard loudly how the father and mother knew exactly what was good for the child. They take care of him. They understand everything. The child has nothing to worry about if he has a father and a mother. And my father and mother will make the right choice for this child. Under Slovenian law, however, a child is anyone under 18 years of age. Now what? How did we decide yesterday? How did some of you talk yesterday? How do you speak today? If the father and mother know what is good for the child under the age of 18, then they will probably give him as much as they think is good and right at his age. Even more; it allows this law with amendments that have been adopted so that, with the consent of the family, of course, a 15-year-old can also get in his pocket this child's allowance, with the consent of the family. Your father and mother already know. What do you want now? In short, a patriarchal family, where parents know everything about how good and right, or 15-year-olds who will be economically independent. That's very illusory to expect. I would like to be encouraged by the economic independence of young people somehow. But in the current system of social support we have, when a child is under the age of 18, and if he is studying, by the age of 26, he is an economic member of his family, and on this basis all the social adjustments paid by the State are calculated, but there is no other way. I didn't hear anyone here asking why kids are a 15-year-old parental benefit. But that was not the case, even though it would logically follow. If you're going to give the kid a scholarship directly into your hands, then let's not make it easy for the parents anymore, because he's going to live alone with that scholarship, I guess, or how we imagine it now. In short, I think that this proposal is consistent and justified. However, the proposals that we would like to make are very partial in solving some things and are certainly not systemic. What has been said is also very demagogic and populist about whom such a marriage change is intended to affect — certainly not the poorest. This will be the most helpful, since benefits will now be shared more targetedly than ever. There is something else to say about this sense of investment in Slovenian education and so on. If we went to look at data on who was unemployed in Slovenia, especially before this crisis, which sent mainly poorer education to the Employment Institute, we would be surprised how high the proportion of highly educated people in Slovenia are unemployed. We are probably at the European summit here in this area. You will not find so many people with a degree in unemployment, like in Slovenia, across Europe. It is to ask whether we are going to our educational policy, or what is wrong with the Slovenian economy, properly and purposefully, that these highly educated people are not able to take advantage of them. But it's not a matter of first concern to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In short, it is logical that this grant award will also be reduced if there is no funding. I think that the student generation herself has said well how they want to earn their studies; they want to earn with their student work. Well, it's hard to expect help from the state if she's not willing to give anything for it herself. And these solutions are particularly in this social field, which concerns solidarity, which concerns all of us, we need to see the whole picture, not just our own position. Because if not, of course, it applies: because it is ours, it is mine, but it is mine, and these countries do not care. It's not like that. Either it's ours or it's nobody's, and everyone's got their own stuff. And here we are now at the decision point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I will not support this amendment. There's quite a few arguments going this way. However, I would just like to say that if ever positive developments have been made in the reform of the scholarship policy, they have been made in this mandate despite the crisis. And I also agree with the debaters who say we should do more, more and more in this area, and it is likely that this issue of scholarships will open up in the future. If you only remember the previous term, you know that a mistake has been made, it has also been acknowledged that in the censorship itself there were many transfers that came to the family, from a child's allowance, and if someone was receiving a pension, etc., and quickly there were 17,000 young people left at some point in front of the door. So the then government actually realized that it had made a mistake and that it was no longer able to change it back, and it was those who had come from distant places who were worse off because they had lost their scholarships. There were 17,000 of these young people. In 2009, this government essentially adopted the Law on Scholarshiping, where it eliminated this anomaly and essentially came to a higher degree, which was very important, because many who had just come from rural areas or from non-educational centres could get a scholarship. And it was this amendment of the Grant Act that brought 10,000 new scholarships in 2010, so that in this mandate, despite the crisis, ten thousand new scholarships is a step in the right direction. So, it's done a lot in this area. Then there was the story of the small work law. Here we had the opportunity to do something, again in the area of scholarships, to take some money that is uncontrolledly spent within student organisations. Of course, we can also do this in the future, the Law on the Community of Students is possible to open up, so I expect the Ministry to think in this direction about what to do in this area. And if we had a small work law, we would also have some of the larger funds that could be allocated to scholarships. And now here is the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, which at some point allows more scholarships to those who are 18 years of age or older – a larger number of scholarships and higher scholarships. Since the task of the State is to take care of those who have become in some way 18 years of independent personality, who have to provide — even by law — for themselves to be able to help them as much as possible, and this is also guaranteed in this law. But it is not true that any help should be lifted from students between the ages of 15 and 18. They no longer receive scholarships under this law, but they have other transfers, incomes that will also allow them better or easier access to education. And that's why this law has to be passed. The president of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, has already said that this scholarship will in fact be diverted to a children's allowance. A child’s allowance is a transfer that belongs to a family and a family or parents are responsible for caring for a child under the age of 18. And the key change or addition to this law is that this child’s allowance, which is going to be higher than that scholarship that the student has now received, can be received personally by the student. And this is the dilemma that was among all of us, even among the students, because we all agree that the scholarship came primarily to young people who became slowly independent and also needed some teaching on how to dispose of their own resources, and this scholarship was the power to do so. Now he will have a higher allowance through the children's allowance, so the higher the child's allowance will be if we compare the scholarship because the rate is changing, and he will be able to have these funds, he will receive them on his own account. And that's what we all wanted to achieve together. So this law is safe if we look at it in its entirety, a step forward. Now, only this is important in our segment: we need to ensure that all those with the lowest income will receive sufficient assistance from the country, as far as finance is concerned, so that they can access education. This law distributes higher child allowances to those families with the lowest income. And that, of course, makes him, in my opinion, worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. This law, I am sure, will not enter into force 1. 1. 2012. This has now been found by the coalition members. The fact is, at the centres for social work, as Mr Saiovic said – and I have this data – to some extent resist the fact that this law would actually come into force to the extent that it was proposed a year ago. Now, what is in the background here, I don't know, but the fact is that we may have underestimated the magnitude of this problem a year ago when this law was adopted. But if I were to focus on the amendment, I would say that I would definitely support this amendment. The fact is, students take scholarships. That's not what I'm saying. This is what the representatives of the student organisation say. This is also claimed by the student organization, solidarity with the students. Not to say again then, "The Slovenian Democratic Party is once again running against this law." I would like to remind you once again: against this law or against such a solution — not the law, but against this grant solution — are students and students. Just like they were up against a little bit of work. I don't think there's going to be a referendum, but the fact is, they're opposed to it. And what does that mean? If we draw the line below this, it is that there has been no social dialogue again. That there was no partnership like everyone else wanted it together. And this is not the first time that this has happened in this mandate. And not just with students, students, including the others, even with unions. Well, my opinion is that the scholarship is a scholarship, but the children's allowance is a child's allowance. And that's how it's supposed to stay and stand. Scholarship students or students spend on their own needs, whether it be transportation, they may find some kind of allowance in some way. This children’s allowance, though the law allows them to agree at home to go directly to the student’s expense, will not go anywhere. The students are right here. There's no way that's gonna work. There are many things that are not arranged in families as you would like. And that's why I think the orientation here is somehow wrong and it would be better if the scholarship remained a scholarship and the children's allowance remained a child's allowance, at any height. But I would like to draw attention to this further substantive change that I spoke about earlier when this award for eligibility to the State grant changes by the beginning of the 2013/2014 study year. From 64 % to 53 % of the net average wage on the family member. And I'm curious, Mr. Minister, what will this mean for the number of scholarships, what will that mean in general? So the amendment that talks about scholarships, scholarships for students, I will support how my personal support for the law, which we will vote on at the end, also depends on the adoption of this amendment, because I think this amendment is so strong that it is worth listening to and can ultimately weigh in its decision to support this law. However, the fact is that this law is now being passed again after one year only because of the incapacity of the ministries involved in solving this problem, with regard to personnel, with regard to the transfer of records and so on. The fact is, the bureaucrats are obviously running this country, so that the Ministry should be cutting down the table and saying, "This is how it's going to be!" And that's what needs to be done and put your hands on it. Not now that these hands have not been met, we will say, "Okay, well, let's extend it for another six months," and in six months we will be sitting here again, because we will be extending again for another six months, I am sure. But if you don't, thank God, I'll be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we have already announced the support of unrelated Members of Parliament for amending the law, and we have said that it forces us to think also about the amendment's proposal and that we will decide how to act on this amendment once we hear the ministry's responses again. It hasn't happened today, I suppose it will. However, we do not intend to attack the solution or be their apologists, so perhaps a few questions that I would rather ask are answered. Now, we separate the problem into two parts, one part is part of the amount of funds. And it is true that the representatives of students and students who also visited us presented tables and calculations that speak differently from those of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Now we're wondering if the Ministry has faced these different calculations, and do they have any argument that the calculations presented by students and students are wrong? If so, we'd like to hear it today. Another issue in this regard is, as regards the mass of funds for children's allowances and the mass of grants for scholarships, if state scholarships for students were still available. And, of course, the ratio, if there were more scholarships, then the same amount of resources is not enough, then this is redistributed. Another problem that plagues us is that, of course, these funds, child support, are devoted to the family. We have nothing against this, but it seems fair to us to ask whether this is a better solution than a solution, that scholarships intended for students and students get students and students and thereby increase their autonomy, their personal maturity, and thus they are brought up for leadership, to take responsibility for themselves. Because this is often done now, especially in those families where, say, the social, material, financial situation is relatively poor, and students are already helping even to support the family with their work – either through their travels or to work in the context of the grey economy. So there is their responsibility, their autonomy, to have what they create or are intended for through social transfer, and this is somehow no longer allowed. We know that it can scare away the resignation of a scholarship in such a way that it is directly received by students and students. They could also write that students and students would give up this right, and they would say, "or parents would rather deal with our money." So that this argument is not a good argument because in some other cases, when I talk about family and the relationship between children under 18 and between parents, we find a whole set of reasons to label family situations as bad, as those that are necessarily improved, as those in which children suffer and cannot be expected to make decisions on the basis of the article that says that parents can make decisions, only for the good and for the benefit of their children.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Of course I won't support this amendment either. Why, I don't think it makes sense to speak, because my colleagues listed a lot of this before me and said it and, of course, justified it. Of course, I would like to say a few words about the centres for social work, which, of course, are still very much involved in this law, and of course because I believe that some of the general things have been said in this Parliament for the Slovenian public, and this certainly does not withstand any criticism. I would therefore like to say that the centres for social work are doing their work by law and by those laws adopted and adopted in this Parliament. Social work centres don't do what they think they do, but they do what this Parliament, this country, tells them to do. And that is why they are also professionally qualified, social workers, who, of course, do their work in accordance with the law. However, what needs to be done to make this law actually come to life has been quite said today, and I believe that there are many other and different complications in operational implementation. The Minister doesn't need me to apologize to him for suspending the validity of the law for six months. It's a real gesture, and any one of us does anything to find out that things aren't mature, put it down. However, delaying them when all circumstances are good, mature, and, of course, the goal that he has set himself will be achieved — with as little damage as possible and with as few mistakes as possible. Without mistakes, nothing in this world can almost happen. Of course, with as few mistakes as possible. This law deals with people, does not deal with furniture, does not deal with objects. And when we deal with people and their property, I am sure that it is necessary to take time to drink the law so that it will have as much effect as possible and that it will do as little damage as possible and that we will not repair it in two years, but that it will hold some time. And this is the goal first of all of the legislators, our committee, on which we have debated it long and hard. This is where our chairman of the committee, who has worked so hard in this law, and everyone else, has the greatest credit. And today we are back in Parliament with this law and I do not agree with the pre-election speeches that now the law was bad to fix it, "we knew in advance that it would be bad". Everyone knew that it was bad, that we were going to fix it, everyone said to the minister, "Don't accept it because it's bad." Please. Let us be a little more serious, and let us all conclude that not only is our country in such social distress at this time, that we must put our heads together, but we must start campaigning on such a law. We still have a number of laws where we can run an electoral campaign. Probably not on such laws. And before that, a speaker from the SDS party spoke and said that the SDS is not working against this law. Great. Then we will adopt this law and we will all vote for it together, confirm it and, of course, all of us will follow it together and see its effect. And as it is said, nothing is eternal in this world, nor will this law be forever; one day it will have to be changed again. One more thing. When the talks about all those factors that come come come together at the Centre for Social Work and will be staff members of the Centre – today they are the coworkers of the Centre, but at the congregation, at housing funds and elsewhere – another law needs to be changed. Not only do this law and then we save everything. We didn't. There's a lot of things waiting for us. If I'm not mistaken, we have a law on housing funds that says that when a person is being transferred from a three-bedroom apartment because he failed to pay for social hardship, this person cannot run for one-bedroom apartment because he was employed. I have pointed to this several times, and I have taken this rule — I believe it is not the law, but the rulebook — has changed, but it also has a significant impact on this law and on social work centres. When someone who's assigned him comes to the social work center, do you think he has a social work center in the back for his office wardrobe that he's going to put this man in? No, he doesn't, he has to look for funds, he has to find an apartment and everything, and we need some rules for that. And social work centers don't work on pretty and ugly faces. Once again, in this crisis and with the increase in the number of applicants for social assistance, I do not believe that the minister, as they say, has shared new staff across social work centres across Slovenia. I believe not, because we are in a situation like this, and we need to do a little more work and share our work. And that's what social work centers do. In the end, here's another one. Since the mayors also talked about this law, I would just like to confirm that there are a lot of mayors – I myself have been the president of the Red Cross in Cyprus for a few years and I have also met the mayors of neighboring municipalities, how they worked, how there was a crisis or hardship in families, what kind of fire or occupation – the mayors are really very good at working with the centres for social work, with the Red Cross, I believe that even with Karitas, and the mayors are the people that people can always turn to. So I would end by saying clearly that I will not support this amendment. And what I said in the beginning was that the minister didn't make up certain things, and no one's going to compliment him on the fact that in six or eight months he suspended this law. No one needs commendation, everyone does his job, and that's what they get paid for. But once again, in the situations we are living in today, things need to be weighed and reviewed, and only when we are sure that things are mature then should the laws work. Because laws have an effect on people and we must be sensitive when we adopt such laws, for once again I repeat, we accept laws as people. And we make mistakes when we think we're doing our best. It is human sin, but it is even more human to recognize and correct mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u52	Nice greeting to all in attendance! The expiry of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds was expected. Indeed, it is not easy to establish all databases, this is an extremely difficult work, especially if these databases serve their purpose and must be good and useful. We need to be understanding about this. The very intention to introduce a single record, in order for professional workers to have a review of the total income of an individual or family, is necessary for as much fair as the distribution of aid. Today's amendment dilemmas judge whether to maintain scholarships or solve the matter through child support. I think there's a bit of a conceptual issue here. Regardless of the fact that we hear a rather diametric view of it, the funds will finally be sumarum equals for the family. Although the students' representatives also presented us with different calculations, here today we would really like an answer that will oblige us, whether it means transferring to children's allowances, which will also be intended for study aid, actually a smaller sum for families or the same or greater or about or, I don't know, under what conditions this can be calculated. The problem of concepts is the following – regardless of the final result as to the level of resources in order to be the same – the purpose of the child supplement is different from the scholarship. These are two transfers, two forms of aid. The children’s allowance is for parents, including those who do not have a student or student — we are talking about students now with this amendment. Now why would we be saving you through a kiddie supplement? By increasing the child's allowance. We could still keep a student scholarship. And if, despite the children’s allowance, for example, they found that the family was having difficulty surviving a student, they could still receive a scholarship in certain cases. However, the scholarship is intended indeed for a condition for study. And now we've just mixed these categories up somehow. I am joining my colleague, William Rezman, who himself has stressed the possibility of this combined option – both of us keep – and this would be a more conceptual approach to this matter. We therefore expect the Minister's answers. Otherwise, if they do not convince us, we will undermine the Slovenian People's Party's Amendment to return student scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I ask yes, I see applications, a desire to discuss them. [[...]] Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you. When I listen to this debate, and when I see that there are doubts about the right solution to the adopted law, I would like to point out that this is a conceptual change in the law. This law and its concept were adopted last year with great agreement. I do not remember now whether any parliamentary group at the principal level has renounced the law's support. Now, if we just change this article of the year, it changes, I don't know if we're aware of what this is all about. But I am thinking about just one more thing, which is at the expense of social justice and coordination or uncoordinated efforts to care for those young people and those families who come from the socially least stimulating environments. The child allowance, as set out here, in increased amounts, will be obtained by the family even if their child is not included in secondary education, because it is financial assistance to the family and goes and is enforced and established per year. And it may happen that such a young person who did not join the school after nine years will decide to join the school later. I have already talked about specific programmes aimed at those young people who were not attracted to regular schooling early enough and later became involved. So, I am confident that Mr Minister will shed light on some of the confusion in the calculations that have come to us and have proved something else that has calculated the ministry, but please let us be aware that the adoption of this amendment undermines the concept of law. But we decided on the concept of the law a year ago. The essence of this law, which is now being passed, is indeed only the departure from the entry into force of the law. And I am surprised to see colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party who have expressed such doubts that the departure of the date for six months is sufficient. Why, then, did they not propose that this date should be changed if they were so sure that the law would not be in force at that time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with some of the findings that the country is not a bottomless bag. But I cannot fully agree with saving on the young population. So we're educating those we train for the future. Maybe that sounds like a phrase, but no. I listened thoroughly to my colleague Barovic's discussion. He said somehow that, with the goodwill of the local community, apart from what was compulsory for the social field, he took care of this as mayor and that – of course, without the municipal council's decision or the adoption of the budget it was not possible to do so – but the good will of the mayor of one municipality can also be very useful in this area. It is true that individual Members have pointed out a short period of time for the implementation of this law, as well as another law in this area. I myself participated in some local debates when social work centres and municipalities began to talk about which personnel would be transferred to social work centres. I have to say, it's not easy to make a deal. It is also necessary to have the consent of those in local communities, so-called municipalities, to carry out these tasks. A lot of times, the mayor wants to send someone he doesn't like. And these are also the problems facing local communities and social work centres. Of course, plus that, there's a lot of records here that support everything that each individual eventually gets as social assistance. I fully agree that we have no other choice as to extend the deadline for the entry into force of this law. However, I do not agree with the fact that we are exacerbating the price for individual categories in the grant recipient. And this censorship is relatively sharp, and again, in quotations, those who come from a lower or middle layer will be harmed or injured. However, I must say that I like the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, and my debate was at the outset that the country is not a bottomless bag. I will support it, especially because I believe that young people need to be given confidence, as well as those who have certain resources available to them and allocate them for the purposes of their study, or, if we want, for the purely ordinary needs that a young person has. If we define a child supplement, then we know that this is the supplement that parents get. And these parents are quite confident in some way and decide whether this child will receive anything from this child’s allowance, and some of them simply cannot give this supplement to the child because they have a cost of living anyway. I will therefore support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to come back again, but I was tempted by my colleague Jurša's debate. Above all, consider how and what this marriage change means for young people. If it seems to anyone that we are going to return the possibility of receiving scholarships for under 18 years — directly to them, not to their parents or guardians — if someone thinks that this will contribute to greater financial independence for young people, he is very, very naive. That's sand in your eyes. The 200-euro scholarships, what will contribute to economic autonomy? Here in this National Assembly, I am listening to the fact that pensioners who have 400, 500 euros in pension and the property they live in cannot live with. A 15, 16,17-year-olds with 200 euros or, if you want, later 18, 19, 20-year-olds with the same money or with about 100 euros more and no real estate, can you? Are they so much more capable than their grandparents that they can do it? They're not. They're not, and if anyone thinks they're doing something good for young people, it's sand in their eyes. What young people would need, of course, would be more student homes, what young people would need even more is a transparent real estate market, the possibility of renting apartments to shorten, the apartments they are in Slovenia, are owned by people who cannot maintain them, people who live in too many apartments, people who have too many apartments and turn them in black, and no taxes anywhere and never capture them, and no real estate tax will ever hit them, so that these properties will be put into effect. [[...]] That would help young people. This would help young people to gain their independence. The possibility they have of calling it a student job or a small job is one of these. The 200 euro scholarship, however, is a milder thirst, and spitting into the sea in economic independence. I was lucky, and at the age of 19, for example, I was able to make my own decision and partly become economically independent; because of the things I have done in my life, I have been rewarded more financially for this than anyone else in my generation, and I have only been able to do so. However, courage is still needed, and the scholarship does not help. If it's making you feel any better, fine. System order, but it's not a system solution. If there is anything that would help to make young people economically independent or to increase their self-confidence, it would be, for example, the adoption of a pension reform that offers young people a clear, fair and solidarity vision of the future, not one slave work for other generations, which, as I said earlier in the case of real estate, should be more tangible and should be in solidarity with young people, not young people with them. What is proposed is sand in the eyes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Do you agree that we now give the floor to the Minister of Labour? Dr. Ivan Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! First, if I may, I would like to draw attention to the context of the debate. We are discussing the late entry into force of the law which has already been adopted. If there is no such delay, the law applies. However, we are responsible for providing citizens with a quality service and have estimated that we cannot provide such a quality service at this time and that it is necessary to take time to do so. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to some of the very basic data that have been mentioned, and we have examined them during this time and are important for discussing this issue when it comes in particular to scholarships. In Slovenia we have between 25 and 64 years of age 83.3% of people who have secondary education or more and have 79% of people over the age of 15 who have secondary education or more. This is one of the largest percentages of people with secondary education among European countries; this is highlighted too few times. And this – 97% of the population today is included in high school, which means practically complete. And this population mostly lives at home, with its parents, just like it used to live and live at a time when it attends primary school. I would also like to add that, as mentioned above, we have the lowest degree of unemployment among European countries of graduates, which has been mentioned as a problem. Of course it's a problem. We would like to have more employees, but comparatively we have the best level of involvement in the employment of graduates who have completed more than high school. Of course, when it comes to the question of what social work centres are doing, what the state is doing through the social work centre and what the community is doing now, this change we are introducing means that we will relieve the municipalities of what they are doing for the country now, but they can and must do what their mission is, and no one will restrict them. And we also deal with the transfer of personnel directly with each other as to how this transfer of personnel will proceed. In small congregations it is clear that if someone works for a third of the working time, he cannot simply stop doing everything else and come to a social work center. Of course, where there are larger congregations, this matter can be handled differently and will be handled differently. About the specific amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. First, when it comes to scholarships, I must say that the context is forgotten again. In any case, we are improving the state scholarship because there are currently about 42 000 recipients of state scholarships, as many as there are. This is due to the price of 64 % of the net minimum wage currently – the range is set. We are now going to a different censor, with 64% of the average wage being proposed, because of these circumstances we have proposed 53% of the average wage during the transitional period. This means that the censorship will increase, in any case, the number of scholarships, state scholarships. Of course not as much as you'd like. The reason why not, we also mentioned and it is inappropriate and in some ways misleading to stress that we are now taking full credit for the scholarships – we are giving more – even after this amendment. And it's not true to give them less. And now, on the function of the scholarship, on the children's allowance. Children's allowance and state scholarship are both social transfers. As with the children's allowance, the State grant aims to help the socio-economically weak categories of the population or families and children, so that, regardless of this social situation, they can be adequately independent, developed into healthy, qualified, independent individuals. By the age of 18, we are determined that it is the responsibility of parents to bring them to this independence and maturity. Regardless of how we now assign individual transfers to them, the primary responsibility of parents remains to what they will give these children and how they will be raised or given independence. This, as it was said, has been highlighted in another context quite a number of times. And that, of course, is why it is possible for them, as a special educational measure, to use the child supplement directly to this youth, who is between 15 and 18 years old, and who will receive it on his own account if they agree to do so. But if they don't think he's mature enough, they won't. In any case, it is the parent’s responsibility to spend that child’s money. Imagine going the other way to give him a state scholarship at his expense without his parents having an impact on him. At the same time, who is responsible for the use of those resources, for example, such things as drugs or beverages and so on, as we are often warned about from secondary schools. Can the state then assume this responsibility? I don't think so. And, of course, in this context, I am still asking why we should not insist, if this is the case, that even after the 18th year, which we have now changed, we do not continue to receive children's allowances then the parents, but we think that children are also legally matured at these ages and that they should receive this receipt in their accounts and be accountable for it. Now, about height. Once again, all other scholarships remain and are available. And they stay unsplit, so watch out, we don't give out enough human resources scholarships because they don't care because they don't want to commit because they don't want to go into some professions for which human resources scholarships are granted. A lot of them are left unscathed. However, as regards the amount of this total remuneration, it is the fact that the total amount of the State grant for young people has been transferred to the child allowance but the so-called allowances have not been transferred. The additives, however, are: a supplement for distance, transport and nutrition. All of this is given to these young people through — and now will be higher — subsidies for transport and food subsidies. So if you take the full receipt of an individual, it won't be any less, in some cases it can be bigger. Let me also point this out – if we really want to return this solution to the previous state of affairs so that we can combine the children's allowance and the youth grant into the new children's allowance, that we cannot do so with this amendment to this article and that the adoption of this amendment does not actually save this – the Law and Law Service should then say its own here. In short, this is also not a solution, purely formal, but I don't think for a substantive reason either. If you don't mind, I'd just like to stop at a matter of records. So what was in our power is done and done, everything is arranged, so to speak. But it is true that not only the whole country, if you want, has all the resources, but some other institutions have had to redecorate things so that they can come to us in linking these 48 databases that will be included in the single information system. And individual departments had to first change their laws, their legislation, so that they could even have a basis for establishing these records. This, of course, creates the complexity of this system. However, for those most critical points, we have assurances that the problems will be resolved. For example, for the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia we have everything in this system already regulated, only official confirmation of the value of the property is missing, and this is now being done. Everything else is running, I would say, informationally; every individual's property is already visible, already seen in this experimental information system, which is now being tested and will then be used on this basis for training officials or advisers at social work centres. Maybe this. The problem is what Mr Saiovic has opened, of course, the problem is the data on real estate and the socio-economic situation that an individual has, strengthens, increases, decreases, across the border of that country. We're aware of that. Just at the last meeting that we had with the Austrian Resortary Minister in this area, we found that the next step when we have this system in place – and they are also trying to establish it – is worse for them, I have to say, from the deadlines we have – they also want to have an interstate agreement that will regulate the exchange of real estate data, the financial position of an individual, the employment, when it will now be large, and the income that comes from it, and so on. And, of course, we'll sort this out in the next step. The same applies to other countries, but this is the subject of inter-State agreements. Croatia is going in the same direction as we are, and when it is at this point, it will be necessary to conclude an appropriate agreement for the exchange of data on individuals. And then we can have these anomalies under control if you want. Until then, of course, we don't have that basis. Other issues, as Mr Saiovic also pointed out, I think only in cases, but through this new system they will be able to monitor, regulate and I think that it will work properly, as envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In short, a sentence or two. Personally, I cannot agree with this, which has been said that 200 euros is nothing or how it was approximately said that it was sand in the eyes. I always find that in this country we have lost our sense of money. And we're moving millions of euros, but I'm out there like we're moving cents. And I repeat again that the million euro is 240 million old tolars, and that was, at that time, insanely insanely large money. 200 euros, unfortunately, is a huge amount of money for many in this country today, very important for their survival. Let me remind you that we have not had a moment of discussion in this National Assembly about the contracts concluded by the ministries and which have an hourly item of thousands and several euros. Here we are talking about 200 euros or censoring, depending on the price of this value per month. A month! I, Your Honor, agree with you that the scholarship will be for the students, probably not for the students. And as a result, this amendment is ready for those under the age of 18 to be under the age of 15, even excused to state scholarships. Those who don't live here in Ljubljana, for example, in Gorički or in the White landscape, or somewhere remote, away, that kind of money means a lot. And they don't talk about housing because it's a dream in heaven. They're talking about how they're gonna survive. And every euro comes in handy, not a hundred or two hundred euros. This is also a reality in this Slovenia for a lot of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Andreja Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u64	Good afternoon. I know this system is really complicated. It might be a good second time for us to play numbers on the panel. That's the first thing I want to say. I'll do it again. The children's allowances for pupils are increased by the total amount represented by the national student scholarship. In short, this transfer is ensured, so we charge a larger number for the student. The only thing that is not taken into account is special supplements, which will be converted into subsidies. And the students won't lose anything! Don't start demagogies! And that's what I'd like to say – please, if you do this, then you have to change the whole marriage, or they'll get state scholarships and even higher child support! Is that gonna be okay with the students?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u65	Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u66	Dear Mr. Vice President! But there is something that needs to be said very clearly. What a colleague has just said is that students will lose nothing if they lose their entire scholarship! How can he claim something that he does not hold!? How can you say, Madam President of this committee, that students will lose nothing? Students from 15 to 18 will lose their scholarship. Instead of students, they're going to get that difference between parents. The students will lose their scholarship. And that's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u67	Mrs. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you. We also discussed the family code and the family as a sanctuary, and there will be no problem if families are arranged. The scholarships remain – Zois' scholarships, staff scholarships for deficient professions – and remain unsplit and the children's allowance will be increased [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Ivan Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I wouldn't do it again because in the mill, they said, say it twice or three times. But I'd still like to say what I might say sooner. In view of the fact that both children's allowances and state scholarships are mainly attended by the largest proportion of people, families, students from real rural areas, from less economically stable environments, and that, of course, this will also be based on these criteria as the censorship rises, as well as the rest, and that this will not result in any loss. And also the supplements, these subsidies, for transport, for example, are specifically intended for them, so that they can get to the place of education, so that these costs can be met. And it doesn't really turn into anything worse for them here, even if we combine now, as we say, the sum of the increased children's allowance plus subsidies, are at least the same as before, and we know that most high school students live at home, with their parents, and that the student homes are empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Since I no longer see applications for debate, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 16 and the law. We will vote on the amendment and we will break the 11th item of the agenda today. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Security Preemptions by Emergency Procedure. The proposal was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much, very much and very much, once again! We are therefore amending this law in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State which could result from the application of the Social Security Benefits Act by 1. 6. In 2011, without providing adequate records and establishing an information system, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes the adoption of this law. With a view to linking the implementation of the Social Security Benefits Act with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which proposes the extension of application to 1. 1. 2012, we also propose the suspension of the implementation of this law. With the proposed delay in the application of the law, it is expected that the transition to a new system of decision-making and allocation of rights from public funds will be carried out, more qualitatively, more quickly, with fewer backlogs and also easier for those who will conduct decision-making procedures on public funds and, of course, without problems and without further complications for users, which is our first concern. The negative effects on individuals will therefore be reduced, while reducing this delay this year also reduces national budget commitments. As a result of changes in the area of social protection for mentally and physically affected persons, it is proposed that, and this is a substantive change, the right to compensation for disability and the allowance for foreign care should not be transferred to the system of social security benefits or remain regulated by the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons. Since the provisions of the Social Protection Act of 10 August 2010 and the entry into force of this Act have expired, the Government proposes, by means of the proposal of this Act, that they be reinstated by re-imposing into the relevant law which is intended for this area — the Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Affected Persons. Since the compensation for disability under the Social Protection Act for mentally and physically disabled persons represents means for the survival of disabled persons and is not transferred to a system of social security benefits, this right must be counted as income for the income of a single person or family in determining entitlement to social security benefits. The Government therefore proposes to supplement Article 12 of the current Law on Social Security Benefits with disability benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. The position will be presented by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Hello again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 29th emergency session of 10. 5. In 2011, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for a law by emergency procedure, was considered by the parent labour force. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and commented on Articles 2, 4 and 7 of the Act. On the basis of these comments, proposals were drawn up for amendments to the committee of the coalition parliamentary groups, which, according to the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, followed their opinion and were also adopted by the Committee. The Committee was also presented with proposals for amendments to the Committee of Magi Members. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar and Andrej Magajna to Articles 3 and 7 which were not accepted by the Committee. An additional decision was also proposed to the Committee for its adoption, which was not adopted by the Committee. The proposed law has also been tabled by the SLS parliamentary group within the deadline of business. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented at the meeting by its representative. The Commission supports the proposal for a law. With regard to amendments and additions to the draft law relating to the right to compensation for invalidity and the allowance for foreign care and assistance, it notes that they are consistent with the content of the Alliance's initiative and are aligned with it and therefore fully supports them. Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, introduced a complementary explanation of the bill. In the discussion on individual proposed solutions, the representatives of the proposer stressed that Article 68 of the Social Security Benefits Act was followed by greater social justice and targeted targeting and that the amendment of the law extended the range of beneficiaries of the protection allowance. In particular, the issue of a protective supplement, which is bound by the new law on the Social Security Benefits Act, was raised. Of course, this allowance is a right that depends on income, so some discussers felt that it was only a credit from a country that would have to be repaid. Proponents of the bill have argued that this is not true and the proposed solution is better, as it provides adequate remuneration for persons who have been excluded so far. In doing so, the view was once again expressed that the provisions on the obligation to reimburse received monetary social benefits should be based on clearly established criteria and transparently regulated under social protection laws and should not depend on different interpretations of Article 128 of the Succession Act. In addition, it was pointed out that the provision of Article 129 of the same law, which provides for the possibility of the waiver of the right to reimbursement of aid by a State or a local community where the prodigal’s heirs, their spouse or children are solely in need of assistance, also exists in favour of two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Committee did not adopt the amendments tabled by the SLS Group and adopted its amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! Since the implementation of the Social Protection Benefits Act is linked to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which defines the order of application of rights, and since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds proposes the extension of the application of the Law on the Rights to Money Social Assistance and to the Protection Supplement to 1. 1. 2012, it is necessary to suspend the application of the Social Security Benefits Act as well as on 1 January 2012. In addition to this amendment, we particularly welcome the changes in the field of social protection for mentally and physically affected persons, where the amendment of the law provides that the members of the transitional and final provisions of the Social Security Benefits Act are not to be transferred to the social security benefits system and that the transitional and final provisions of the current current law governing their transfer to the social security benefits system are deleted. As a result of this amendment, the Act also provides for the addition that compensation for disability under the Social Protection Act for mentally and physically affected persons is also considered to be an income of a single person or family exercising the right to financial social assistance or the right to a protective allowance. The compensation for disability under this law constitutes a means of survival for persons with disabilities and therefore that income must be counted as a single person or family’s own income. By deleting the right to compensation for disability and the right to an allowance for foreign care and assistance under the said Act from the transitional and final provisions of the Social Security Benefits Act governing their transfer to a system of social security benefits, the aim is to ensure that both rights relating to the acquisition of disability status are governed by the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons whose content is changing. At the LDS, we believe that the rights of citizens and citizens and their access to these rights must be regulated clearly and in an understandable manner. Greater transparency also raises awareness while at the same time allowing for a more rational use of budgetary resources. At the same time, we are convinced that the compensation for disability and the allowance for foreign care and assistance to the rights that must be guaranteed to everyone who needs them, but at the same time we believe that these rights do not fall within the category of social security benefits allocated by the State to beneficiaries in the form of social transfers, but rather that they are the personal rights of persons facing disabilities, so that we are pleased to correct this distinction now and to regulate it in the proposal to amend the legislation that we support at the LDS. We are pleased that the warnings provided by the Alliance have been taken into account and we support the Ministry's rapid response in this case. In the LDS, we believe and share the opinion of the Alliance of Coexistence that persons with mental disabilities cannot be equated with hard-working persons, as this equation would simply not be appropriate. Since the amendment of the law regulates this area in an appropriate way, we will also support it at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. First, it should be noted that if we support the amendments to the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, it is only and only logical to support this law or this amendment. And we provide our votes in support, even though we have had some thought in the adoption process or a different view from those later adopted. However, we know that, in view of the facts listed in the previous law and also applicable to this law, we need to change this period of enforcement, because everything else would bring our country and also the beneficiaries of social transfers into an impossible situation. But it's not just about holding hands. This is not even the best reference to support this law. A better reference to this is, in our judgment, the adoption of some initiatives that have been taken by civil society, and thus the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has shown that it can listen to and change its proposed decisions when making substantial arguments. It is mainly about changing the ambition of transferring disability benefits from the previous Act to the Social Benefits Act, which is not going to happen now. This was something that civil society has warned about with an organised, weighted, reasoned action, and these warnings have reached the ears of those who can take this into account. What we consider to be relevant in this law is, according to the content, some of the following facts. Taking into account the ambitions of civil society, the responsibility of individuals and families for their material and social situation is also stressed. So this law wants people to take responsibility for themselves and to help those who take this responsibility and are active in it. So it's a self-help principle. It is about trying to prepare people not to escape into apathy, not to escape into some model of just survival, but to, with the help of others, with the help of the State, seek opportunities for themselves to contribute to a better future life and to avoid situations that we call social problems. It will be greater, thus guaranteed by this law, including justice, to take into account all that has been mentioned in the previous law, and I will not repeat it now, and social security is greater and there is a more dense network in which we can capture those who are in social problems. There have been quite a few concerns, including with regard to the change, we have listened to some in our parliamentary group and there have also been individual differences within the parliamentary group regarding the proposed provisions. The first difference was that we are mostly convinced that it is right for social transfers to be transferred from the pension fund between social transfers. Others, however, felt that this arrangement should remain in the pension register. We are also pleased that it has been explained that those who will eventually be recipients of what will be abandoned by those who now receive social assistance and are themselves in social difficulties will not be burdened with this ownership. Of course, someone who is not in the situation of being alone in social distress cannot expect everything else to remain intact and at the same time gain social assistance for his fellow human beings. Therefore, since there is a whole range of good substantive things in this law, we also agree that the deadline still needs to be reached.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! Let me present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Representatives of the Alliance of Coexistence have repeatedly announced, accepted and listened to their wishes and warnings about the problems of persons with mental disabilities and their relatives with regard to the benefits of education or training, and about the empowerment of persons with mental disabilities themselves. The proposed amendment to the law eliminates part of these problems, but we are aware that only the law on social inclusion will eliminate the vast majority of the problems that the representatives – in particular representatives – of the Alliance have warned us about. We adopted the Law on Social Protection Benefits, like the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, at the 19th meeting of the National Assembly last July, this has been said several times today. At the same time, however, it must also be stressed that both laws adopted form the basis for reform in the field of social transfers in our country. The content of the law that is being discussed now is comprehensively regulated and defines certain rights from public resources, whose task is to ensure social security for those who actually need such assistance from the State. However, there are two main reasons for changes and additions to the Social Security Benefits Act. The first and most important reason arises from the need to properly regulate the status of remuneration of persons with mental disabilities. More specifically, the right to compensation for invalidity and the allowance for foreign care and assistance under the Social Protection Act do not transfer mentally and physically affected persons to the system of social security benefits as provided for by the Social Security Benefits Act. This solves the problem, which, as I have already pointed out in the introduction, has been pointed out by the Alliance of Coexistence and which has itself proposed additions and amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act, which will, until the adoption of the Act on Social Inclusion, deal in an integrated manner with the protection of mentally and physically affected persons, adequately regulates the status of the current disability compensation. This ensures the social security of persons with disabilities with mental disabilities is maintained, and this is also an opportunity for them to live independently and independently. The second reason is of a systemic nature. Since the implementation of the Social Security Benefits Act is linked to the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, which defines the order of application of rights and whose amendments and supplements provide for the suspension of the application of the law, including the right to financial social assistance and to a protective allowance, as of 1 January 2012, it is also necessary to extend the application of the Social Protection Benefits Act to the beginning of 2012. Both have been highlighted several times today. However, given the expected financial implications of the changes and the amendment of the law, which will also require 47 million additional resources in the 2012 budget, we cannot agree with some of the findings made in the consideration of the bill's proposal by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The provisions of the law were interpreted in the sense that the law interferes with the social rights of the most socially disadvantaged part of the population. On the contrary. Social Democrats believe that the law brings solutions aimed at greater social justice and the targeted targeting of social security benefits, so we will support the amendment and the amendment of the law. In this introduction, however, let me say that we do not intend to support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to this law because it undermines the concept and interferes with the different regulation of the state pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Since the implementation of the Social Security Benefits Act is linked to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, it is also essential to recognise that we are today adopting this law because of the failure to establish a central register of rights from public funds and because of organisational changes at social work centres. As with the previous law, records have not been established, transfers of staff from municipalities to social work centres and facilities and equipment have not yet been established. Therefore, we reiterate that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs did not do its work, as we adopted in the law a year ago. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the solutions to the draft law relating to the regulation of the rights of persons with mental disabilities. We have also been confronted and informed by the Alliance's initiative to adopt appropriate amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act, which would prevent persons with mental and physical disabilities from being involved in social aid recipients. We note that the Committee has taken into account all the proposals made by the Alliance of Coexistence, namely that the law is supplemented by the right to compensation for invalidity or by an allowance for foreign care and assistance. At the same time, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask ourselves whether there are other categories of people who will be deprived of their rights from public funds according to the current situation. Many disabled organizations have put us on hold with requests for similar status to be arranged for them. The country is obliged for all categories of people in social distress under the provisions of these laws to provide a minimum pension or a protective allowance, as you wish, which is probably never meant to become a credit. Social assistance is intended for those who are in need. The solutions to these two laws, which we are considering today, are going in the direction of intergenerational solidarity, but it seems somewhat controversial to us, and it is worth considering if this arrangement is truly optimal. In fact, the law provides that if during the lifetime of life the deceased received social assistance or a protective allowance and entered his property, the State eventually receives it. So if someone lives in a house and stays in this house, he can get a transfer from the state, but he has to guarantee to the state that this transfer he acquired will be paid with the property he has. It is no longer about automaticism as it used to be, but after the death of the recipient of social assistance, the state sits on the property. We ask ourselves, is this really the best and most optimal solution? And we note that this may not only be the best solution, but because we are aware that the possibility of reforming this law is virtually gone, we will not oppose the law at the beginning of this position of reasoned improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds also governs, inter alia, the exercise of the right to financial social assistance and the protection allowance. In substance, these two rights are regulated by the Social Security Benefits Act. This is based on the principle that a person must exercise all the possibilities available to him in order to improve his or her material position and the situation of his or her family, while respecting the order of the individual right. Otherwise, in determining his material position, that right shall be taken into account as if he had exercised it. Thus, when exercising the right to financial social assistance, the applicant must first exercise the right to a child allowance. If it exercises the right to a protective allowance, it must first exercise the right to a child allowance and to financial social assistance. Since the implementation of the law is also linked to the above-mentioned law proposing the application of the law on the rights to financial social assistance and to the security allowance on 1 January 2012, it is also necessary to extend the application of this law to 1 January 2012. What we are most pleased about in the Group is that the change is that the right to compensation for disability and allowances for foreign care and assistance under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons, with the new beginning of application of the law, do not bring into the system of social security benefits. Already in March this year, we addressed to the competent minister a letter and a question on the basis of a letter from the Alliance of Coexistence, which supported the interests of persons with mental disabilities. These persons are expected to remain in a worse situation after this law has been enforced. They are supposed to be treated as hardworking people who will receive social benefits. However, the disability allowance was a disability benefit which provided these persons with a minimum subsistence allowance or some costs, irrespective of the property status of the family members. As it was following the adoption of a law to receive social assistance, the supporters of these persons were concerned about their material situation. The question that arose to me personally during this time and to our sending group was why can those who have the same degree of disability no longer receive benefits from disability, but from property status? Persons with mental disabilities are largely disabled who are permanently unable to work and to live on their own. However, their business ability is taken away from them by many cases. These persons become permanent recipients of financial social assistance for the rest of their lives after age. The Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Injured Persons in Article 3 provides that monetary remuneration is to be paid for the survival of persons with disabilities under this Act. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia declared this law to be unconstitutional and set a one-year deadline for the elimination of non-compliance. It follows from this decision that persons with disabilities who are granted social protection status under the Social Protection Act of persons with mental and physical disabilities should, in addition to other rights, be granted the possibility of a decent life by ensuring a minimum level of income security. In ensuring social security for persons with disabilities, the legislator must take into account the fundamental constitutional principle of the social state under which the State is obliged by active measures to provide everyone with opportunities for a decent life. The principle of social state is, as far as our social interests of persons with disabilities as one of the vulnerable groups of the population are concerned, derived from Article 52 of the Constitution, because the right to special protection of persons with disabilities is a special human right, the right to positive status. The government has therefore proposed that the articles of the transitional and final provisions of the novel be amended as a result of changes in social protection for mentally and physically affected persons. A novelty in the income of a single person or family exercising the right to financial and social assistance, or the right to a protective allowance, is also regarded as a compensation for disability under the above-mentioned law, since this constituted a means of survival for persons with disabilities. In short, the government has followed some of the problems raised by the amendment of the law, so we will support the amendment of the law in the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u86	Mr. Secretary with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen! Just one year ago, when we adopted both new social laws, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party warned that the time for making such major changes in the field of social benefits was far too short. We have drawn attention to the lack of adequate qualified staff who will have to take on a number of new tasks at the social work centres, but above all we have requested that at the same time we should adopt a new law on scholarships, which is only in the adoption process this year. The consequences of a quickly amended law will be long-term and irreparable. We are not persuaded by the promise of greater benefits for all who need help, nor are we convinced by the fine word if we do not get the appropriate evidence that new injustices will not be done. We also requested appropriate comparative calculations, which of course we did not get. Members have not heard convincing comparative calculations justifying the consequences of this law, nor in additional explanations as to the consequences of taking account of the applicant's assets and how the new social system will be fully implemented. We have opposed provisions that consequently require applicants to sell, for example, a family house or a farm if they lose their job and ask for social assistance. We reiterate that all laws that change the social system and thus the situation of people in our country should be treated in parallel and enforced at the same time. Therefore, it is not surprising to the Members of the Slovenian People's Party that today, with the same arguments, the Government is proposing to amend and extend the implementation of the new undeclared social laws. Above all, we support the new provisions adopted by the Committee that have listened to and returned rights to beneficiaries under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons, thereby restoring social security and dignity to them. Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree with the extension of this law, but we cannot support it unless it is adopted by our amendment that abolishes the unlawful abolition of state pensions. It is unacceptable that already acquired legal rights under Article 59 of the current law are simply abolished by a new social law. The recipients of state pensions are mostly people who in the past could or should not have been insured, such as housewives and rural women, even though they have worked their entire lives. With this law we have abolished them, now we have the opportunity to correct this error and unconstitutionality, regardless of the similar provision in the new pension law, whose fate in the referendum is of course questionable, so we invite you to support the amendment of our Group of Members. If the amendment is not adopted, we will not support amendments to the law, although they are necessary and we support the extension of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting goes to the minister and co-workers. At the outset, I must say that we are concerned in our Group because the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs did not see this problem that it had to be pointed out by the Alliance. We all like to say that they visited us from society, visited our group of Members, and listened to what they said, and in some ways we were very concerned ourselves. The new law proposes the suspension of the application of this law, which is that the law should apply in the coming year instead of next month. In addition, the amendments and additions to the Social Security Benefits Act bring about a substantive change, which means preserving the existing system of rights and compensation for persons entitled to them under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons. Thus, persons with mental and physical disabilities will retain their cash benefits due to recognised disability, disability allowance and foreign care allowance and will not be deprived of their assistance, as provided for by the basic law under which these persons with disabilities would fall into a clean social assistance system. This will be achieved through the re-implementation of the articles of the law governing the rights and compensations mentioned to mentally and physically affected persons. Members of our parliamentary group agree that persons with mental and physical disabilities are subject to a status that must be separated from a system of social support based solely on the economic situation of the beneficiaries. The status of disability is an objective fact that has had a profound impact on the lives of these people and their relatives, virtually since birth. The status of disability is also protected separately and separately from general social security by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Our country is committed to pursuing an active disability policy and to taking various measures to ensure that people with disabilities are in such a position that it is precisely because of the special circumstances that deprived them of their normal or normal life in society that will enable them to live independently. The latter must also be understood in the context of material supplies, which alone, due to the inability to work, cannot be affected and thus depend on the state and, of course, the property. Thus, after this novelty, mentally and physically affected persons will retain the right to financial benefits from their disability arising from the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons, and they still have the right to exercise social rights. In doing so, the amendment proposes that the disability compensation be included in the person’s own income if he enforces the right to financial social assistance or/and protection allowance. Members of the DeSUS will, of course, support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the Slovenian People's Party has tabled an amendment to Article 7, I am opening the debate on the amendment to Articles 7 and 7. Anybody want a word? I see more reports. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Well, I have already announced in the opinion of the Group that the Group of Social Democrats does not support this amendment, and the reason is conceptual. The Pensions Act lays down the rule that contributions paid are those indicating the pension benefit, of course with certain derogations and adjustments, in order to be clear, taking into account in particular the solidarity principle. We discussed a lot at the time exactly state pensions, which as a social correction were introduced for those who, in particular in farm households, were deprived of adequate financial security. There was a lot of debate at the time about how to arrange a state pension and we decided that for all those who are beneficiaries – especially beneficiaries or beneficiaries of a state pension – this right remains that no new beneficiaries should be brought into this. With the proposed amendment, the solution is coming back and there is a discrepancy between the two laws and this cannot be supported. The second thing I would like to mention is that there has been a lot of talk, in particular about the protection allowance and the inheritance obligations for the beneficiaries of inheritance, if the local community or the state has financed a protective allowance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, already under the applicable legislation — already under the Succession Act — it is possible for the local community or the state to waive the exercise of the right to restitution of property from inheritance, provided that this interferes in any way with the social security of the beneficiaries of inheritance. So neither the local community nor the state are automatically entitled to an inheritance payment, but this payment is based on the financial capacity of the heirs. I must say myself that, as a new Member of Parliament, with such requests and even an assessment of the constitutionality of this provision, I have come to know in the first year of my term of office, so I can say from my own experience that this is a provision that has been in force for a long time. I hope you understand, however, that this is simply a non-poor fund from which protective allowances are paid or paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and others, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will not support this amendment by the SLS party, not because I would not just support it, the reasons are now stated by colleague Majda Potrat, so I will not repeat them again. Solutions already exist in marriage, and this will not lead to mistakes, confusion, and even less to the impact of certain groups. However, it must be said in this law that, if I may say so, it is gratifying that the law is very good, that most Members or almost all of us support it. I am particularly pleased that we have been united in the proposals of the Alliance of Coexistence, which accompanied with a very difficult heart the debates and the previous epilogue of the law, where they were also classified in the category by which their properties should be found on the list of debt repayments to the country. However, since we are in Parliament, I am sure that the socially sensitive people, especially in the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and the disabled, have shown that we have all supported this together and that there was no one who would actually doubt that this is the right solution. The real solution is also because those who lead this society are persistent and advocated to solve this problem and to enable their children who are affected to live a decent life. In one way or another, all they had given them would be unjust enough to end up sacrificing what little property they had. Therefore, if I can take this opportunity, I will gladly support this law, because it not only solves the problem of this society, which is very numerous in Slovenia – I think it has even 52 of its exposures around the country – but also because of everything else. And in the end, it's another smart thought that things don't work out quickly, that things don't work at great speed and thinking, "We're very effective because we work fast, we're working on tons of laws, and that's why we're good at this National Assembly." No! No! This law, too, needed a thorough consideration; we are now concluding this law with our thoughts. To this marriage more than these few amendments, which were given, of course, there is not much more to say. And here again the Ministry's wisdom has shown itself not to rush and not to make mistakes that others will have to correct. Therefore, once again in this package of legislation, or these two laws that we will adopt today, I am confident that their effect will be good and long-term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, the Slovenian People's Party's Group gives the amendment an opportunity to correct the error and delete the abolition of the state pension, by means of a compromise solution which has received majority support already in the adoption of the new pension law. However, since we have abolished the state pension by this law, namely the Social Security Benefits Act, it is right to correct the error in this law and to provide for the payment of pensions to all who are already receiving pensions after this law has been enforced. Therefore, the amendment in the new three paragraphs to Article 7 provides for this to be properly regulated. In the first paragraph of Article 79, we therefore delete points 1, 2, 3 and 4. In the new second paragraph, we provide that the provisions relating to state pension shall cease to apply with the entry into force of this Act. The new third paragraph provides, however, that all beneficiaries of a state pension who have fulfilled the conditions laid down in Article 59 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and who have or obtain this right to apply this Act shall continue to be paid a state pension in the amount laid down for the last month prior to the entry into force of this Act and that their pensions shall be harmonised in the same way as other pensions. The adoption of the Law in July 2010 provided for the abolition of the payment of state pensions under Article 59, which is inadmissible and unconstitutional, since beneficiaries, like other pensioners, obtained the right legally under the applicable law, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and therefore the rights acquired under Article 59 of this Law cannot simply be deleted by a new social law. Notwithstanding the fact that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which, moreover, is unlikely to even apply by confirmation at the referendum, has already adopted a similar provision as a compromise solution, it is only right that the current amendments correct the unconstitutional provision by which the state pension was abolished. It is therefore right that, with the amendments and additions we are adopting, it should be determined at least that everyone who is already receiving a national pension or who will exercise that right until the entry into force of this law retains that right. From 1. 1. However, 2012 will no longer be able to enforce the rights under Article 59 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. So there will be no new recipients of the state pension. However, legitimate rights would be maintained for all who are beneficiaries of the pension under Article 59 of the current law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! Look, the biggest problem for me is that I won't be able to support the law because of your possible disagreement to support our excellent amendment. Just as your marriage is good, our amendment is excellent. And it follows what we have been able to agree on and compromise in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2. Look, I don't think it's as much a cost for this country as it is for this country, but it shows the social note that is supposed to keep many of these people going the way they are, but not to try to regain the rights that they belong to under this law again, but you know what these paths will be. Most of all, it's the people in the rural environment. Dear coalition, I must tell you that you are capable, but your ability is unevenly distributed in Slovenian social space. You proved this on Tuesday when you passed a law on the incompatibilities of the mayor, the mayor or the MP. So, it says, somewhere you could find yourself and such a capacity as you have demonstrated in this, you also dispersed on what is essentially more important than that law you passed on Tuesday. Please support our amendment. The amendment is good for all citizens and citizens of our country of Slovenia and is therefore truly evenly distributed throughout the Slovenian social space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u98	I'll support this amendment myself. His attitude is clear. The point is that what we actually fought for last year and somehow fought after the initiative of the Slovenian People's Party to maintain state pensions as a personal income of a citizen who is not bound to property in the pension law is now somehow being saved. We are solving the situation on the assumption that the pension law in the referendum will not be supported. We don't know that. What if he is not supported, what happens to the status of the recipients of the state pension? And that's what this amendment is about, this situation. It will still make it possible, regardless of which ministry this money is provided from, to make it possible to pay. Further payments of state pensions. And that is why I think that this kind of amendment is a safeguard against what might happen at the referendum and it is to support it, regardless of whether we are in some conceptual conflict now or in a situation that is not conceptually clear or contradictory. By paying real attention to this amendment and its purpose. It would be a shame to find out after June 5th that there will be no more state pensions. Of course, we must not allow this to happen, and we must think about it today. And a few more words about law and social transfers. At the previous point, Andrej Crnak Meglic, the chairman of the committee, said: "The Social Transfers Act is a small revolution." Yeah, we did a revolution last summer. When there was no more concentration, when we didn’t really know what we were taking — but we knew, maybe some of them knew too much. And such, I would say, category changes do not occur in such a period, at a time when it is no longer possible to think carefully about these conceptual matters. It is no wonder, therefore, that the debates on the committee began from A, from the beginning, because this first phase — what we want with these changes of the law — somehow escaped. Everything has been presented; things are quite simple, social security will not change, we are just transferring from one source to another, we will reclassify the matter a little – although comparisons are not always the best, so we transferred some records deleted to another record 20 years ago and see what happened then. These transfers are not just a technical issue. Look, there's another dilemma today that's gonna stay. Security supplement. A security allowance for pensions. 47 000, a little more, the pensioners receive less than 450 euros and are entitled to a protective allowance. This will be a new social transfer. Logically, someone who fails to reach this minimum is being helped by the state. However, there is a big difference — whether it is a personal income owned by someone, whether the pension is a personal income, regardless of what the state adds to it, or whether it is a social transfer that will burden the relatives. I myself do not believe that there can be a social transfer, even in this work, even though it has this function. Let's be consistent. If they were consistent, all those recipients of the first tariff group who are employed — the second, third, fourth tariff group — would therefore be able to treat all those who are below the minimum wage as an aid to the State because they do not reach the minimum wage set by the State as a minimum for the worker’s survival. Why didn't we interpret these things like that in this case? Retirement comes from work, regardless of the fact that someone has not reached the full retirement age. And as has already been said today, Mr Ribič himself said, they could not or should not even apply pensions because the state did not allow them to do so. They're not guilty because they were, uh, simplified, lazy because they didn't want to work. There are different reasons. They're pension recipients, and I take the pension as an income that we won't judge by how much someone has, more or less. However, if the state corrects this lower minimum, such as with the Minimum Wage Act, it is essentially about valorising the remuneration. But this is where I'm starting the original dilemma that we should have thoroughly debated last spring before we went into these laws. Therefore, these questions will continue to be repeated. What is essentially social assistance, or what is a personal right, or income, of an individual who is not bound to property. And because we haven't cleared that up, unfortunately, things are going to move on. The law still makes things right. We have heard that the Alliance has turned to Parliament; we have all come to an understanding, unanimously, beautifully, at once, but that is not right – but it was not so idyllic. I'll just be honest with you. If a group of Members did not threaten to start collecting signatures for this society or association, I do not know if it would move. Maybe you should, maybe you shouldn't. By not being so idyllic smooth, there was probably also a danger in the background that the matter would be over-published in order to be talked about. It's an exposed group. However, I resent the representatives of the Union for speaking so wisely to the Labour Committee when we discussed other transfers, including the safeguard supplement. Perhaps I also understand them; they did not want the matter to spread too much, so that their rights would not suddenly become questionable. Their silence is even less understandable when as many as 10,000 500 signatories joined the Alliance, but they were not only from their Union but also from other people with disabilities. A little more solidarity with other people with disabilities would be expected from them; let them not mind me, and I will tell them in person, and they will probably hear that too. A protective allowance should not be a social transfer, I speak for the pensioners. That would be more valorizing their pensions, minimum. And so the treatment of pensions, which then burdens relatives, is unacceptable and irregular, so I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, the debate has already taken place, but I see that there is still an interest in the debate. Do you agree, Minister, that we should give the Members and Members a word first? I ask any of the Members and Members of Parliament to continue to discuss their application. Dr. Luke Yuri. [[advertising from the hall]] We'll consider, Mrs. Blackakova, a mistake. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u100	Good day to you all! I will briefly touch the amendment directly with a question to the Minister. And I think it is appropriate that the Minister waits for this round of discussions. To me, this amendment, when I read it, with the knowledge I have – I am talking about the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party – seems to make perfect sense because it ensures that some form that we have transferred from one law to another will still be taken into account, as it has been so far. So my question is above all: Without this amendment, is there an option and do you assure us that those state pensions that are already on the run will by no means change, even without this amendment? Because if there is this possibility, then I think it is right to enforce the amendment and ensure to those who already have certain rights – in any event, they are acquired – that they will remain the same. And so until further notice, I express my support for this amendment, unless, of course, the Minister – and I will be happy if so – you will give another explanation that will actually respond to these needs without needing an amendment. Finally, I would like to give a brief reply to my colleague Magajna. The Alliance has carried out a wide-ranging effort to convince the need for change that is taking place. I don't think we've been anywhere, not in the coalition or the opposition, nothing better or worse. I think we were all very sensitive to this understanding. And even before there were any threats by Members, I don't think there was any point in talking about threats between colleagues – but even before such predictions occurred, there was an understanding of this in the coalition, and a change that was being prepared today was already on the table. You know that these changes don't happen overnight and they need some time to put the matter in motion. It was put into procedure, and I assure you, even if we didn't threaten each other or if we weren't threatened with some signatures, everything would still happen. Simply because both on the opposition's side and you will not believe it, we are also on the coalition's side Members and Members with some sense of common sense and social rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, let me start with the Alliance of Coexistence. When we discussed the law in the National Assembly, we really invited a wide range of civil society organisations to the debate. And if we had already been alerted to the problem, of course we would have reacted by then. The undeniable fact is that the area of social protection is an extremely complex area, which has a large number of groups and subgroups and just all the legislation and everything that is regulated through this system, but we cannot know all Members and Members. And doubtless, if anyone wants to fasten his collars, then I can say that these colossals truly belong to all the Members and Members of this National Assembly. For not a moment since we received the arguments did any of us think that we had to react. And we immediately stepped in with the Ministry, and that's what happened. That's a start. Secondly, as far as state pensions are concerned, the Minister will correct me if I understand or not. If we implement the SPIZ-2, the situation is clear. The State pensions obtained after the previous system remain, but from here on, the Social Security Benefits Act is taken into account. This is where the problem is solved, so there is no need for the dictatorship that is being resolved by PIZ-2 to be passed on to this law. Similarly, provisions governing, say, inheritances or the like may be required to be transposed into this law, even in this law. That's unnecessary. However, if the PPIZ-2 is not enforced, I think it is the same; for those who have acquired rights under the PPIZ-1, the right remains and for new ones is calculated according to the new model. If I'm wrong, the minister will fix me, so I don't think the amendment is necessary. And a security supplement. Look, it's not just the invention of coalition MPs. The transfer of a social security allowance, taking into account the beneficiary’s socio-economic situation and resulting from the transfer or the clearance of all social transfers, was also a requirement of the social partners throughout the period. On this basis, this has also been established. Now, as far as inheritance is concerned. Perhaps even the most plastic justification for the return of the country's investments in an individual probably explains the sentence of Mrs Mateja Kožuh Novak: "If you have the property, it is right and fair to everyone who pays the taxes from which the protective allowance is drawn to return the heirs from the inherited property. This does not happen if the heirs are socially threatened. This is provided for in Article 129 of the Succession Act. And one more thing — why not also open up other social security regulations that say that children have to care for their parents and pay extras if they are in the homes of the elderly? If not, the state will sit on this property. Don't you see the analogy in this? Parents take care of their children, children have to take care of their parents. And here's something else I'd like to warn you about. The Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia has carried out a very resounding study – and it would be good for someone to take it into their hands sometimes – on violence against the elderly. In there it was very clear how not so rarely happens that children first hang themselves on pensions, and then they also expect and somehow kick older ones out of their homes to perform psychological and sometimes physical violence against them. Don't forget that! Not everything is as horrendous as we would like to show in this society. Look, parents can survive countless children. It is also right that children help their parents. That's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk to the minister? Please report to the debate. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u104	It was just a reaction. I cannot agree that we are binding the validity or validity of a law on the time of adoption. If anyone has a problem with seasons and time before holidays, then it's his personal problem, it's not mine. It is true that we adopted the law at the time before the holidays, but now I ask you: in the opinion of some, there is never any time for the adoption of laws. We have had a long debate on this. Were we aware of all the intestines that survive here? I don't know. However, I know that the law, which focuses on one point on all social transfers, has been preparing for a long time that the reform of the work of social work centres has been preparing for a long time; however, the resistance in the environment has been considerable, but it is also true. But what I think is worth telling me is that — I would never have hoped to get my hands on civil society associations and tell them when they were answering and when they weren't answering. We received a letter from the President of the National Assembly, all in the order of the text under which more than 10,000 signatures were collected and spoke in favour of this amendment of the law that we are now enforcing. On this occasion, however, let me say when I spoke about the visits made by representatives of the Alliance of Co-existence in the parliamentary groups to take advantage of this opportunity to draw attention to other laws and, for example, we could also take care of and encourage some interventions in the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs, which is not yet in the National Assembly. Therefore, it is important that we respond to warnings and that, once we have determined their eligibility, we also support them and expect them not to weigh and threaten, "if accepted, we will support them if they are not accepted, we will not support them". I think that this law, however, regulates the problems of a large group of people and it would be right to support changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Yeah, well, I really don't know if it's such a problem to support this right now, so we don't threaten each other, what we're not gonna do. Because after all, there is fear; no one accuses anyone of something being done or sucked or not good. We've already said that marriage is acceptable to us. Because there is fear because we have bad experience because we know that we will never write such a law, that it will be possible to do absolutely everything right, because we know that common human reason in this country does not work — so we would write it down so that we have this matter settled and that this fear is rejected. But I have to say that we have supported the law of ZPIZ-2 and we are still behind it. And we want him to go through. And if you ask me personally, I have to say that you're taking a good campaign right now and maybe it'll even be a war and fear will be rejected. But we're not sure, and if we write that down, we're not going to do any damage. Then, as far as our traditional Slovenian life is concerned. Of course, parents help children, children help parents. Children get married, another manoeuvring comes into the house, becomes a new community, which may no longer work in this sense because another manoeuvring has come into this law. As a result, I don’t think that’s possible — parents for a child, children for a parent. And where a child cares for his parents, there is no problem with inheritances, etc. But look, you know, the mayor who signs off, what he's invested in helping with the social transfers of a family or a person, is also responsible to the municipal councils. What kind of congregation council does it have? He doesn't choose him. However, it can have such a municipal council that works only on the economy. They're in municipal councils, too, and they say, "if he's never worked, we don't give anything." Only they don't understand why he didn't work because they have coats. They're only looking straight, nothing left and right. But we politicians are the ones who are supposed to bring it into this breadth. And I want us to accept this matter, not because we don't trust the ability of anyone or positive energy, but because of the fear that this matter isn't at war with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u108	See, today a number of questions were raised: State pensions – what would happen if the pension law fell on the referendum? I don't know. Will the Minister answer that? And it is in this context that I support the proposal, I think, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which will somehow preserve the possibility of paying these pensions. That's some kind of security guard for me. Even if the matter was duplicating itself, there is nothing wrong with the fact that when a pension law was not adopted or rejected, it would be a state pension. That's a key dilemma. The second is, as has been said many times, a protective allowance for pensions. He had already called himself that; only the key difference was that it was part of a pension belonging to an individual regardless of his property; it was a right arising from a status rather than from a life situation. At present, someone is wealthy — whether he owns the property or not — to the same extent he obtains the pension — and now this protective allowance has become a social transfer. Although it is called the same, it is from another cash register, it has another status and is essentially a burden for its relatives, later on in succession. A few more – 47 thousand and more recipients of a protective allowance, i.e. those who have lower pensions than 450 euros; what happens next year? Two years from now? Three? The ministry will say, "You're receiving a security supplement because it's not a problem." And this share of social support will increase relatively. Pensions will be the lowest, with an excuse, 'but they'll get a security allowance anyway'. Only this protective supplement will be counted as a burden. On behalf of this recipient. And that is what we are afraid of, so we should not have a protective supplement, this term should not have disturbed this term, which in fact meant some kind of valorisation. [[...]] We should talk about the valorisation of pensions, not about social support for pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since we are very much expected to have some different views clarified by the Minister concerning the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I think it is right to give him our word. Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Respected and respected, see, in this debate, even in relation to the previous one, I am somewhat disturbed that from one law to another the reasoning changes and comes with itself in contrast, and I will also tell you where. First, with regard to the security allowance and state pension, the amendment relates to the state pension. Both of these transfers are social transfers right now. No one had paid for this before, as long as he was active or otherwise, in order to receive either a security allowance or a state pension. Both were introduced with a view to correcting the social situation of low-income people; or at least that was the assumption. And in the case of a protective supplement, you're right. Many of them receive, after new calculations, this number is expanding and will continue to spread widely, as they arrive early in retirement many people who then receive such low pensions that we need to be provided with a protective supplement. And in this regard, it is also necessary to look at the new proposed pension law in a different way than some would have looked at. If we continue on this path, the majority of pensioners will move slowly into a social security system where they will receive protective allowances. Do not do this if we are reasonable and want to stop the growing social problem of the elderly. It is therefore necessary to amend pension legislation. But let's leave it at that. A protective supplement and, also, I would warn, a state pension, according to our proposal, is, according to the new one, moving into a social security system where the targeted action is on, as we say, a comprehensive socio-economic position of an individual, where not only an individual is viewed, but also his household, his family, who, in any event, helps the one who has a smaller allowance, of course, if he can, if not, also not. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, according to our view of specific cases, the majority of the recipients of the state pension are those you had previously considered to be questionable participants in social benefits. Their partners, for example, or they themselves have some kind of property and they get this pension. Now we must decide whether to give social transfers to those who have a socio-economic position through other sources or not. and also live in different, well-settled households or families. In this case, this is a point of view: when it comes to social transfer, when it comes to social assistance, then the one who really needs it, who does not have other resources, must be really affected. And all those who do not have other resources and today have only €190, perhaps state pensions, will receive an increase of €450 under this legislation if they do not have other resources. We will be very helpful to all of this, but we do not want those whose partners may have a thousand euros in pension or a thousand 500 euros in pension or a large amount of property to keep that income. Why? Does the State then have a duty to support those who have such assets? Because then they are not all in the same position; then only those state pensioners are treated as a special privileged social category, if you want, compared to those who have nothing else and will not receive more than, we said, a maximum of EUR 450 from these transfers. At the same time, as we all say, we stand up/take – other social partners have also advocated – to clean up the pension register. Of course, we have these transfers transferred to a social security system and they need to be dealt with in a consistent, uniform manner, all transfers in the same way, but not now exempt one from this system and then reintroduce them. Moreover, when it comes to the recipients of a state pension, the minority, we have repeatedly stressed that these recipients, those who come from a rural environment, are about 3,000, compared to 15,000, and some of the recipients. A minority. Everyone else is a recipient who can, I don't know, be in well-settled households. Father, a partner, a husband who may have even been a director, his wife has never worked, but now he gets a state pension, on his salary, and all that he's put aside at that time, as he says. Such a situation is now, so it is not logical that this transfer should be maintained in the form it is. And let's give it to those who really only get a state pension and have nothing else. Let's give them more, say, and this law stipulates they'll get more. Perhaps another comment on the property, since we will urgently come up with the matter of property. More than once has been said – the assets are taken into account for reasons that have been repeatedly mentioned, because the property is only another source, another form of capital, if you want, from which an individual can secure its socio-economic position. However, if an individual is in a position to work when he is so old that he cannot, no one, even if he has property, will withdraw social assistance and a protective allowance for his lifetime. By making this property available in order to recover this aid. This has been decided by the Constitutional Court, I think twice, and it has found that there is nothing wrong with it, because this protects the social state in such a way that those who are later entitled to such assistance will have something to take from. Not to take care of these beneficiaries, but the children take care of the inheritance, as they say, whether the parents care for the children and the children care for the inheritance. That's not true logic. It is therefore necessary to view this property as assets that are in the function of maintaining the socio-economic situation and to act in such a way that the individual is not at risk and not his or her heirs if they are in the same difficult situation as that recipient of social assistance. And that's how the law regulates it. There is something else to be added: that the amendment you are proposing is similar to what the PIZ-2 has set up, so it is in some ways pointless to transpose it into this law, but of course it has its financial implications. They are currently worth about €35 million. And now I simply point to what is important: if the PPIZ-2 is accepted, these consequences will also arise; they will become smaller, because the recipients will be fewer and fewer, those who are already eligible will get to the end, there will be no new ones, we have agreed, and it is written in the law. Of course, if PIZ-2 is not accepted, then these consequences, these 35 million, should be added to those 300 million, which we have been alerting all along. And then all 335 will have to be distributed another million a year when we come before you, Members, with a savings programme. There will be no other solution. Now ask yourself: ‘ Does it make sense to give to someone who is really not entitled to this benefit for social reasons, so as to save on those who are entitled to it? ’ It's a dilemma. And for that reason, I don't think it's good to force, if you want, such solutions. It is no good because it no longer contributes to social justice. Because those, as it is said, who are truly entitled to this, will receive more assistance from the State. However, those who receive it because they happen to be in this situation that they have not been insured, but, as it is said, are relatively well placed, and those state pensions would not have been received under this arrangement in the event that the PIZ-2 will not be accepted anymore. In terms of social justice, I think this is an appropriate solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u111	Anyone else want a word, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I apologize for not joining the debate earlier because of other obligations. I would like to support the Minister's words, but don't mind if I start with a broader subject and eventually come to the content of the amendment itself, as well as some speakers before me. In the debate on the meaning and fairness of this law, it was pointed out that these social support granted by the State to beneficiaries, who also have some assets, in fact, when the country is also one of the beneficiaries of the inheritance, is actually becoming some kind of credit, mortgage credit, because the beneficiary guarantees with his property that he will return it. As we have already said in the amendments to this law, this actually extends to his heirs if they are themselves in an unenviable social situation, despite the property they have. In other words, if the heir's beneficiaries are equally socially threatened, the state will extend their credit to them, it will extend it to them. Okay, okay, it won't be the first loan to be extended in this country, not the last. Now we are putting ourselves in the role of those briefs, and the country will continue to extend the credit to the beneficiary and to all his family if they are socially threatened. [[...]] Let us put ourselves in the role of those who do not at all get credit in this country who are young, who receive something, and would like to get credit for creating some real estate. Do they get that credit? They don't. They don't get it in banks, they don't get it in the country. For them and for their entire family, who may have lived in that property for which they would like to be credited, they do not receive this credit. That's also what's not fair. That is why this logic needs to be put in place here — so that those who can get credit for their own kind can have it, so that they can get it at all. However, as regards the amendment to Article 7, which is referred to, the Minister has already said. ZPIZ-2 deals with this subject, the Slovenian People's Party supports it. I hope he also believes in its implementation and in the solutions it brings. However, if he quietly believes that the PIZ-2 will not be realistic, that it will fall briefly, then it is clear, of course, that there will be some savings to be made. And just because you realize that if you don't, you're going to have to save money, you're going to support PIZ-2, and if it's going to save somewhere, then why this amendment? This amendment is not intended for saving which will be necessary if PPIZ-2 falls. I believe that we all really know that we are in this situation together and that, therefore, I hope that you will not mind – that I myself will not be able to support this amendment, but rather I will do my best to make the ZPIZ-2, I believe that you, too, will be established and that this situation will be resolved, that this amendment and the ZPIZ-1 will, in fact, become meaningless. However, if this is not the case, then it will also have to be saved in this PPIZ-1, which is why this amendment cannot be adopted because the financial consequences would be harmful and would not have been taken from where, in order to implement the content of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u113	Mr. Mag. Crane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not some expert in this area, but Minister, in a way, you've admitted that this amendment, as you say, weighs 30 million or so. [[...]] This means that if this amendment does not exist, and in view of all the projections we have – but of course, we can all put ourselves on the table here, those who advocate a pension reform – thus shows that the pension reform will fall and that 16 thousand people will be left without pensions, state pensions, for which we have worked extremely hard when we negotiate, talk and try to improve the ZPIZ-2, which is necessary and necessary after our assessment. But as you have said, one case of poverty, where a man with a thousand euros in pension and a wife who has a state pension, with a lot of property, I can say some other case of slavery, which is fundamentally different, which is significantly more terrible and significantly more difficult for the one who barely survives. I don't know who or why these state pensions are in the way. And they were legally granted at that time according to PIZ-1 when people got them. Legally divided on the basis of law. We've changed that now and we'll just pick them up, delete them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u115	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u116	If you'll excuse me, I would just say, on another extreme, I said, there are people who are receiving a state pension today, and they may have almost nothing else. We will give these people at least €450 under the new law, and not only €190, so that this problem is conveniently solved – that is what I want to say. Not that this institution of state pension, which is so, if you only live from you, it's too low. And I must stress this in terms of taking into account property: if the heir is in a socially difficult situation, it is not about transferring that debt to him and continuing to burden him; it is written off. It's not about replicating poverty if you want to, in this way. This obligation is simply not then attributed to him, then he is not obliged to return. It returns, of course, if it is in a good socio-economic situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u117	Mr. Pojbich, you're the only one who's raised your hand. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I think it appears in this discussion and discusses some dilemmas as well. First of all, I would like to say that, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, even personally, I support the solutions that are important for the normal functioning of the Alliance, and, among other things, it has been pointed out here that some are trying to obtain some collegiate, etc. I think that this is the task of Members and Members of the National Assembly to look for solutions that are written on the skin of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and anyone who thinks that he has received a medal as a politician on this account is at least what I think is stupid. So now let us go back to this amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. I will, of course, support this amendment. But I would like to raise one question. Everyone here in this National Assembly knows and we are, I'm sure, also Minister and President of the Government, etc. that the ZPIZ-2 as proposed will not see the light at the end of the tunnel at the referendum. That's what I'm sure and you'll figure it out for yourself when D day comes, that's June 5th. And if that happens, of course, this solution, as proposed in this amendment, will not apply. Now I have an important question to ask me: How could this same government in the law it proposed, namely, in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, take this amendment into account, and in the law we have on the table today, this amendment is unacceptable? Yeah, somebody explain to me whether we lunatics are in this House!? The same government today explains two different things. You're telling me that I'm not, I don't know that I don't know how to speak well, and I don't know what I hear in the background. But I am not so stupid, dear Minister, that I would not understand the basics, and the basics are that we have two marriages on the table; one is supported by the Government, it is said, this amendment by content is supported in that law, and that is ZPIZ-2, the law that we have today on the table, and the government does not support it. And now I wonder what the point is, what's the reason? Is it possible that you have tried to persuade the Slovenian People's Party to support the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and thus infuse them, what you have done today, what you are doing today? Every normal person in this country is asked this dilemma and that is the question. And dear colleagues, I am ignorant, I'm sorry, I really don't understand whether this government works from the very citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia alone – that I will not say anything, that I will not use such and different terms. I don't want to be the one to be the stupidest. I really don't want to. And Mr Minister, at least what I expect you to say very clearly why in pension and disability insurance this amendment is yes, and why this amendment in this law, if we continue to know, all together in this Parliament and in this country that the ZPIZ-2 will fall a hundred percent. I say so, and people will say it. People will say that, believe me, people will tell you because they told you. Why didn't you talk to people and all social groups when it was time for you to listen and find a suitable compromise for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Why didn't you do it? This marriage wouldn't have been in a referendum, we wouldn't have had three referendums! We wouldn't have them, dear colleagues! And if we could talk in the right way, maybe this marriage would go to the National Assembly and all institutions six months later and not go to the referendum and save €4.5 million. But now everyone else is guilty, everyone else is guilty, the opposition, social groups, and so on, that the marriage went to the referendum, just not those who drafted the law. Let me go back to the debate on this amendment. I would ask the following question: If this amendment fails and the PIC falls, it is said that state pensions will be paid as social transfers. In this case, at least that is my assessment, the recipients of the state pensions they now receive remain as they are – if I understand you correctly, Mr Minister. Is that right? So, that means we're going to re-emerg on a situation where two groups of people are going to be unequal before the law. One of them will receive a state pension, the other of those who receive it under the old law, the new one who will obtain this pension will come from those who receive social transfers. And they will no longer be recipients of state pensions, but they will be recipients of social transfers. And what happens – those who are recipients of social transfers will have problems with property because it will happen to them that the state and the congregation will sit on their property. Those who so far receive and continue to receive state pensions under the old law will not be burdened. Mr. Minister, if I don't understand the matter, I ask you to give me the appropriate answer that I will learn if this dilemma of mine is unjustifiable. Finally – I will, of course, support this amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, because I am convinced that it is unfair for the Government to play such a double game. In the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act, as I said, yes, but not here today. In advance, I know that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will fall. So this is supposed to be a perfect play, this is my assessment of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u119	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Look, it's not about any play. I'll tell you what the situation is first. Currently, we have laws that provide for a state pension and that each receives it under this law. With these laws that we are talking about today, it has been stipulated that the state pension should be abolished as a pension to be transferred to the social security system, and all those who have such a socio-economic position to be eligible for transfers will also receive them. Not anymore, she's gone. In ZPIZ-2, however, it was agreed that those who receive a state pension at the moment of their entry into force receive it until the end, but new ones are not being allocated and all these cases are being dealt with in the social security system. Now – whether there is inconsistentness here. There are two reasons for such a solution. The first one is purely substantive. If we deal with this issue within the PIZ-2, then, of course, this state pension remains until the expiry of the ZPIZ-2, because this is part of the established system, which then shuts down gradually when the recipients are no longer. While we want to – and this is now the amendment – transfer this state pension to the social security system, according to the logic of ZPIZ-2, which has a different logic, the change is different. If we transfer it to this system, we need to implement within the social security system a principle that is otherwise in force. It is said that we are looking at the overall socio-economic position of an individual to take into account what his partner has to take into account his assets and so on. And we have nothing unconstant solution with this, if we say that in this system this logic cannot only apply to recipients of state pensions, that they do not take into account the socio-economic situation of their partners, but for everyone else – because they would be in an unequal position as recipients. And the second reason I said before is of a financial nature. If the ZPIZ-2 is in charge, then we've got enough reserves to cover it. If not, then we will have to add another large enough sum to the additional savings resulting from this title. And that's something to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u121	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say how the SDS produces referendums as per the current tape. To be more plastic, I will say this on the case of the law we just passed, namely the Law on Members. 48 Members and Members adopted this law in the National Assembly. More than half of the National Assembly. The SDS objected to this law. Now I just expect them to collect 30 signatures and call for a referendum to end what we have accepted and accept the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. So we had a series of SDS referendums, and I don't think that's a particularly legitimate thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u123	Mr Bevk, I must warn you that this was not a debate on the amendment to Article 7. Here you go, ma'am. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you. Very briefly. I am surprised that the SDS' fellow Members advocate the introduction, the new introduction of a state pension, while the ZPIZ-2 advocates the introduction of an individual account based on the contributions paid. Your explanation is strengthened by the fact that those who have not paid their contributions receive a state pension. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u125	Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Madam President, I expected you to give me your word as soon as Mr Bevk has finished talking about things that had nothing to do with the debate on this agenda item and this amendment. All or most of the key referendums in this mandate were requested by civil society groups. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u127	Is that procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u128	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u130	I'll tell you exactly why I'm saying this. [[...]] Because this is how colleagues from the SD Group try to mislead the Slovenian public and discredit the Slovenian Democratic Party. The referendums that have been and that you have lost – for example, the referendum on small work have been requested by representatives of the student organisation with the public support of trade unions. The referendum on PIZ requires trade unions, the Semolič unions. Semolitz's unions! And so on. Something similar is likely to happen in the Family Code when others from civil society groups demand a similar referendum. And do not burden or tire the Slovenian public to propose any referendums. Everything we propose, Mr Bevk, but we will decide for ourselves, we do not need any mentor, no counselor. Because if you were so good at these procedures, then half of these referendums would not have any, because there would be social dialogue because there would be a conversation between the economic and social partners and someone else. However, when a coalition starts with violence, the only possible response is the rebellion of the people. And that's what's happening. I hope that once this unreasonable behavior of the coalition is over, it will be over as soon as possible. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u131	Mr. Tanko, I'm expecting a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u132	and I expect, Madam President, that all those who speak of things that have spoken about things and then cause replicas and objections on the other hand will be warned, warned in time and taken away from them because this slander does not lead to anything. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I hope to give this warning evenly across all the branches of this House. Mr. Bevk only, Mr. Pojbich was before.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u134	Just for a little while, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for saying that. I would only say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing, of course, if a new pension reform, a personal pension account, is to be prepared. But this personal pension account is proposed in this reform in terms of the future. And for this claim, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u135	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u136	the one she was talking about. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u137	Mr. Pojbich, we're having another debate. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u138	colleague, don't hold [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u139	about some other thing. [[...]] It is still the point of amendment to Article 7. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I ask Mr Tank and his colleague from SDS to stop telling the truth. You have reached three-fifths of the referendums with 30 signatures from Members and Members, although some of the laws in this National Assembly have been adopted by more than an absolute majority. So with this manipulation, please stop, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u141	Mr Bevk [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u142	30 votes that may require a referendum in this country are on a global scale, and we are therefore wasting money on your credit, rather than giving this money for new jobs. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u144	and for development. [[...]] Thank you. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u145	I think that you have now equalled yourselves on one side and on the other in what kind of debate you have led. Therefore, I ask you to stop this debate, I would no longer like to hear any procedural proposals and if anyone else has anything to discuss Article 7, namely the amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, but the amendment to Article 7! Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In the beginning, let me apologize for my misinterpretation in my previous report, regarding, as I said, the lengthening of the debt to the socially disadvantaged heirs who have real estate. In short, it's an even smaller financial measure, it's a debt write-off. To explain to those who understand macroeconomics more – that is to say the situation in which Greece is today, that financial ministers decide whether they will extend this debt or just write it off, because if not, they do not know what will happen. In short, in the case of these social beneficiaries who have real estate, Slovenia has mercifully decided to write off the debt to their heirs if it had come that far. Now let me go back to my vision of this amendment or why the government has accepted the same content in the ZPIZ-2 and is opposed to it in the present law. My friend Pojbíč didn't fully understand the subject. PPIZ-2, which deals with this same topic, has also meant that the burdens of the pension fund are evenly distributed, and since they will be evenly distributed, there will be some room for manoeuvre to ensure that the rights that have been established so far can still be respected. And this was the amendment that was respected, and it is therefore true that, despite the fact that not even the euro, dinar, tolar, any currency has been paid into the Slovenian pension fund, will still be paid out of this pension fund as long as the beneficiaries are still alive. From here on, this law, which we are amending today, has allowed all those in such an unenviable social situation to receive, according to the Minister, 400 and a few euros each, in short, at a better rate than if they were still receiving state pensions. However, it is true that their assets will be checked at the same time. Now why is this amendment difficult to rule in this marriage? Because it speaks of the ZPIZ-1, which says nothing about this fair distribution of burdens, and it means – if it is accepted as such – that the expenditure of this cashier, without, as in the ZPIZ-2, anything else, will come into this cash register and this expenditure could be paid out of something. And if some say with such certainty that this pension reform will fall, I say with the same certainty today: all the solutions that are in this pension reform, and even stricter ones, will have to be adopted if not in the next mandate, and in one term later or later, but any later one will have to be stricter. And it doesn't matter which government it is, which coalition it will be. The last one didn't have the guts to do it, the current one had it, and that's why she did it. Of course, all the solutions, including the one referred to in the amendment to Article 7, cannot be those written on the skin of most people, as said Comrade Pojbič, but must be fair to all; not written on the skin of most. Because if we start talking about solutions that will be written on the skin of most people, then of course it is necessary to determine the minority on which these solutions will not be written. Are we going to decide which minority is going to be? Deleted, same-sex, Roma, immigrants from other republics of the former Yugoslavia, foreigners just like that, Štajerci, Kranjci, Belokranjci, Korošci, Prekmurci and all the others who mention themselves too often in this National Assembly? That's not how it works. Solutions must be fair to all. And the one introduced by the Social Security Benefits Act, and by the previous one, on the exercise of rights from public funds, is one that is just for all. But of course they may be new to someone, but not because they would not be righteous, but because they were used to being too good. Just as it's hard to expect in the future that something will come out of the pension box if nothing pays off. The same applies, of course, to social transfers. Someone who really needs them will get them, and the one who would only mean you to him in addition to the property he already has, of course not. It must be said, however, that the beneficiaries of the state pensions referred to in this amendment to Article 7 are, of course, owners of real estate among them. Hand to heart, but most of them are immaculate in real estate, as I would say. This is not about multi-housing buildings in the center of cities that can be broadcast on astronomical rents. It's small, after most of the old farm and so on. Therefore, the measure adopted in PIZ-2 does not appear to be bad in this respect. However, it is true that somewhere else we should start with a different concept, and if we all agreed that the pension allowance must be cleared of all social transfers, including the SDS, which also wanted all these personal accounts, then this is a topic that does not fall within the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but in the social security benefits that we are talking about today. I think that the changes proposed by the Government have been entirely sufficient and that additional exceptions to the fair solutions proposed have not been acceptable, so, as it is said, I cannot support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u147	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, here, interestingly, the debate is based on completely different matters than on the content of the amendment. Many different accusations have come, including such negative ones. Instead of looking for compromise solutions and proposals and for a good solution, they are primarily involved in the coalition with who has proposed something and why something is not acceptable. After some good solutions have been proposed by the coalition in a vehement manner, those who protest or object in doing so will be accused and accused of not working constructively in this National Assembly and in the design of solutions that are important to citizens – especially to citizens. We will be the one, and I will support this amendment. This amendment of the Slovenian Human Party. Definitely. Because it is also unlikely that the pension reform, which, by the way, has minimalistic effects over the next few years, will not provide an adequate response and will probably not be adopted. [[...]] I think it's wise, with the solutions that have been established so far, to protect the void that is likely to arise because something will happen there. And I would advise Mr Bevk and other members of the coalition, especially from the SD, that it would be much better to focus on what the solutions proposed by individual opposition candidates bring to the citizens, rather than trying to discredit them in any way. We have offered you, at the beginning of this mandate, cooperation in strategic reforms, for all, and also to assume a proportionate part of the responsibility for this, including the difficult situation in which the country has been in, more or less needlessly, because of measures that have not been effective. Due to measures that have privileged certain layers for which a superstandard situation has been resolved by emergency and I do not know what procedures. Here, however, we introduce social security, a social threshold for those who do not have specific positions, by means of a state proposal for the implementation of a state pension. We solved the legal fees, the salaries, the supplements to widow's pensions, etc. For JLA officers, you do not support the issue here, with which we resolve, say, the problem of rural areas and similar things. If not, you will complete the amendment. It can also be complemented in the third reading, etc. In short, it would be good to have the solutions that this National Assembly is taking, mainly thanks to the coalition, in order to be proportionately measured; not to provide notaries and lawyers with 30 million euros per land book, which will be distributed by 300 offices, but here we have a problem in providing a state pension of 250 or 270 euros. That's disproportionate. You take disproportionate measures, you take measures that are tailored to rich social groups, you do not act against those who take state property. This is where we saw the case yesterday, like Darss and stuff. However, you have very serious problems when those with minimal conditions for survival need to be provided with anything. And then all of these discussions about what someone has proposed have also triggered some kind of referendum initiative. It's a lame reading. If they were able to engage in social dialogue within the coalition, if they were able to engage in political dialogue within the coalition, if they were able to agree on at least five priorities, then they would [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u149	Mr. Tanko, Article 7 and the amendment. Please. Little [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u150	I'm talking about this and the problems that arise from these things. And, Mr President, I would very much ask that you are equal to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u151	I'm trying to be, but it's very hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u152	You haven't even interrupted Mr. Bevek and the others. You smiled beautifully when you were talking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u153	Don't worry, I'll share this equality.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u154	Now it's my turn to ask for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u155	I warned you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u156	And I would expect coalition parliamentary groups to judge wisely when to launch a debate. In the order of things, we have proposed good solutions in a series of laws, which are then concluded either by veto or by referendum. We have also proposed good solutions in the pension law, but they have not been adopted. We also propose many good solutions in the Family Code, but they have not been adopted. We also propose good solutions in some other laws, but they have not been adopted. It is no wonder, then, that in these procedures, when some logical things are rejected by the coalition simply because it is not the right one, they end up where they end up – to be checked by public decision-making. And here you have a big problem in this mandate and it doesn't help to tell anyone that he didn't do everything that was necessary to make certain things take place. You're the one who made the decision, you're the one who refused, and you're the one who triggered the process to decide these things at the referendums. And on June 5th, you will have the opportunity to read the results that may be quite similar to those of the month before. And then you'll share the readings left and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 7, in short, of the amendment. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on integration and the prevention of corruption after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 12 Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Borut Saiovic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry! The fact is that we are talking about integrity and the prevention of corruption, and if in public media almost daily or weekly, we are looking at articles that, of course, the very area of corruption and integrity is one of those that, in the opinion of some, even the most impedes the development of Slovenia, then this is certainly a necessary and important topic. There were some problems at the beginning when we talked about whether it should be classified and dealt with in the short term. In our view, this is the topic and issue that deserves it. Surely there will be much to hear today about the relatively young man’s marriage. We accepted it in 2010, and we're already fixing it. Not for the first time, we're fixing it for the second time today. But together with the adoption of this law, we have opened up a new relatively unknown, unknown and unprocessed area, and, of course, if there are problems in practice that we can respond to by amending the law, by supplementing it, it seems wise, logical and right to do so. A while ago, we were correcting the changes related to the compatibility of functions, and the agreement to arrange this in the National Assembly, for this subject, was considerable. I expect something similar today when we regulate the area of lobbying. On the other hand, we also regulate the area of greater efficiency of the Commission in preventing corruption as regards the acquisition of documents. For example, on the third step, we could say that this solution offers gaps in existing legislation, where there is no systemic provision on the duty to avoid conflicts of interest. We can also read a lot about this area in the media every day. It is also important that the State imposes control over its operations through public procurement with companies where there are so-called silent partners or undertakings whose owners are legal or natural persons in the so-called offshore countries and, last but not least, provisions that only commit the Commission to a more transparent work by making its criteria publicly available in the selection of individual cases and with regular audits as well as short, short and, in particular, timely reports on its work. In short, the proposed amendments certainly pursue the positive necessary objectives and will make it more clear, on the one hand, and thus legally safer, and on the other hand, a more lifelong implementation of the basic anti-corruption law in our country. It may also be worth stressing that the proposed changes have taken place on the initiative of the Commission to prevent corruption, which has worked with the individual professional services of other independent supervisory authorities and experts. We have examined and fully responded positively to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services and have also tabled additional amendments, which fully follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and I expect them to be adopted and that we will, of course, get an improved law that will allow us to move from words to concrete actions and to the good of this country to reduce corruption and increase the integrity of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption following a reduced procedure – the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly – and otherwise the committee did so at its 32nd meeting on 22 April this year. Mr Saiovic, with a group of Members, was the proposer. However, the college, as I said before, decided that the procedure would be shortened. The committee had quite a lot of material at its disposal. First of all, a proposal for a law was made available to the Legislative and Legal Service or its opinion, the opinion of the State Council and several opinions of the municipalities: Krško, Ljubljana, Maribor, Slovenian Konjice, as well as the proposal of amendments of the Institute for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. A larger number of amendments were tabled within the deadline. I don't see the need to specifically list them. The proponents of the introductory explanation to the draft law did not submit, and Mrs Terzanov, State Secretary, on behalf of the Government, stressed that the proposed amendments to the law were reasonable and necessary. Ms Sonja Bien Karlovšek, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, stressed that most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service were made in the amendments. The State Council or its representative has upheld the law. Mr Goran Klemenčič, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and Mr Goran Forbici, representative of the Institute for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs, participated in the debate. In the debate, members of the coalition defended the bill and members of the opposition stressed that it was a very large amendment in a short time. To shorten, the committee has adopted 17 amendments to the coalition. The Committee rejected the two amendments to the SDS, and the three amendments became irrelevant. The Committee adopted six other amendments to the Committee. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill with the amendments adopted and adopted them, and this text is an annex to the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs. Tina Terzan, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The Government has examined the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and has drawn up an opinion that this proposal certainly supports, as it considers the proposed amendments to be meaningful and justified, in particular due to some problems which have arisen in the application of the provisions of this law in practice. The proposed amendments and additions do not change the system and objectives and principles of the Basic Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, but some legislative provisions are regulated more clearly and more transparently, and provisions are added to facilitate and more transparent implementation of the purpose of this Act. The government has also been actively involved in the drafting of the amendments all the time, so we estimate that the complementary proposal of the law you have before you is appropriate. In doing so, I would also like to point out that this proposal to amend the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption also follows the Resolution on Regulatory Action, by which we have committed that every regulatory body will monitor over time how the regulation is appropriate, life and that it will proceed to change if it proves that any provisions of the regulation cannot be implemented effectively enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Once again a friendly greeting, including important guests on the balcony accompanying our discussion! It seems fair to me that all together in the National Assembly, as well as with the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption that we have established, we are monitoring this activity and making matters as transparent as possible and in particular effective. For the shortcomings of the current regime have been established, and the problems of everyday problem-solving are real. The adoption of the bill, which we are considering today, means proactive action and a consistent solution to the problems that have been detected during the implementation of the law, which is why we support it at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, signed it, proposed it, and we want it to be adopted. The basic objective of the bill is to eliminate the non-consistency, errors and shortcomings of the Law on the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which the Commission has seen during the implementation of the previously mentioned law to prevent corruption. However, the specific objectives are as follows. Firstly, more effective implementation of the Commission's preventive tasks and more effective implementation of the strategic objectives set out in the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, it is more appropriate to define and regulate the area of lobbying, which will mean that the impact on the decisions of national authorities and local authorities will be transparent. At the same time, there will be no threat to and limited democratic participation of civil society and a legitimate private initiative in the decision-making of the holders of power. Furthermore, the promotion of fair and transparent behaviour of public servants and the promotion of good practices for all those involved in any stage of decision-making processes. We will also establish better conditions for the implementation of constitutional principles. Among the more important principles are: the principle of constitutionality and legality, the division of power, the principle of human sovereignty, the principle of proportionality in the exercise and limitation of rights, the principle of equality before the law and the principle of legal security. We would also like to see further proper regulation and design of integrity plans so that they can become a tool in which the debtors can actually improve the regularity, prudence and ethics of their operations. As a result, the integrity and ethics of the public sector are enhanced, both in the private sector and in society as a whole. In practice, the public and private sectors are inextricably connected, on the one hand through business events, and on the other, through public services provided by the public sector as a service to the private sector. Therefore, the transfer of values and samples from one sector to another is inevitable, and we want to regulate this whole process. Furthermore, we would like to strengthen the technical and information support of the Commission in obtaining certain information that the debtors themselves must communicate after the current regulation of the Commission. This is the next important step towards reducing administrative barriers. However, the essential substantive solutions provided by the proposal for a law contain, on the one hand, a legal consistency and a certain definition of basic concepts, for example, an autonomous definition of an official, an internationally comparable definition of lobbying. Secondly, clearly and precisely defined, in particular, a transparent definition of the Commission's procedures in the face of the suspicion of corruption – an important addition to the anti-corruption clause, which requires disclosure or control of the existence of silent partners, optional and timely contracts or offshore indirect ownership of private entities operating with the State – the elimination of individual administrative obstacles to the acquisition of data, the elimination of deficiencies in the regulation of protection of corruption applicants and the new definition of lobbying, to a greater extent followed by foreign, already well-tested practices and allow for the real control of this area by the Commission. Let me conclude – the reasons for the change of law are obviously more than enough and we will join them at the House of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u166	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with assistant, distinguished colleague and colleague! The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was adopted by the National Assembly on 26 May 2010. It entered into force on 5 June 2010, with the exception of the provisions of Chapter 8 applicable from 5 December 2010. By adopting the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has taken an important step forward in the area of strengthening the rule of law on preventing corruption and eliminating conflicts of interest. With new powers and tasks, the law has completely transformed the circumstances in which the Commission operates, and this is followed by a transformation of the organisational structure of the Commission, which has to be adapted to new tasks and responsibilities. The Commission has become a criminal body and, at the same time, the Law on the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia has created a condition for the regulation and supervision of lobbying activities. The structure and organisation of the Commission will be adapted to better achieve the objectives and objectives of the law by setting up two basic internal organisational units, namely the Centre for Prevention and Integrity and the Surveillance and Investigations Service. The solutions to the law presented follow the objectives announced in the introduction and provide solutions mainly in the following principles: the principle of legal certainty, equality before the law, the legality of the functioning of the public authorities, proportionality, economics and balance between the costs and revenues of the state budget. In keeping with these principles, the law provides a number of positive solutions, such as: a legal system-wide definition of fundamental concepts, clearly defined, and in particular a transparent definition of the Commission's procedures in the face of corruption, an addition to the anti-corruption clause, which requires disclosure or control of the existence of silent partners, optional and timely contracts or offshore indirect ownership of specific entities operating with the State, the removal of individual administrative obstacles to obtaining data to determine the actual situation, the increased responsibility of supervisory authorities, the elimination of certain deficiencies in the regulation of the protection of corruption applicants, and so on, so that I do not repeat what the applicant has said. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are convinced that the law significantly improves the relevant substance of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and we note that the Committee has endorsed the comments of the Legal and Legal Service, while at the same time the solutions are necessary for adoption and support by the Government. In such situations, it is perfectly logical that our parliamentary group will unitedly support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Kikelj has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u168	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues. The current Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was adopted in this House in May 2010. Today's second novelty, which is before us, seeks to further regulate the definition of basic concepts, such as the autonomous definition of an official, the internationally comparable definition of lobbying and lobbyists, the more comprehensive definition of the public sector, business operators in enterprises in majority or dominant state ownership, the coverage of the whole spectrum of types of public procurement, the inclusion of non-profit benefits as a possible element of private benefit and others. A transparent definition of the Commission's anti-corruption procedures is proposed. An addition to the anti-corruption clause imposing disclosure or control of the existence of silent partners, optional and future contracts and so on. The proposal imposes an increase in the responsibilities of supervisory authorities and responsible persons responsible for acting in the event of corruption or infringement of integrity plans by subordinates. A new definition of lobbying is also proposed, which is comparable to foreign practices and allows the Commission to monitor corruption prevention and also eliminates the monopoly of professional lobbyists. The proposed amendments and additions to the existing law make sense, in particular due to the problems identified in applying the provisions of this law in practice. The system and objectives and principles of the law do not change, but the provisions are regulated more clearly and more transparently. In addition, provisions are in place to allow for a more transparent implementation of the purpose of the law. The proposal is also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Therefore, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. As far as the amendments tabled for today's meeting are concerned, let me stress that the amendments of the coalition are editorial in nature and follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is why we support them in the SD. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party want to introduce the supervision of the Commission, the first Slovenian Anti-Corruption Commission, including officials from the Republic of Slovenia in international institutions appointed by the international institutions themselves, for which the Slovenian Commission cannot be responsible, as they are subject to the supervision of the institution itself, which it appointed. All other Slovenian officials abroad are covered by Article 4 of the existing law. Therefore, we will not support the amendment of the SDS of Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u170	Dearly beloved, to all gathered on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party a very nice greeting! What is the red thread that has been marking this government for more than two and a half years now? They were following up on corruption. One after the other, for the third time, let me remind you only of that indignation – the rental of a building by the Ministry of the Interior, which was also the reason for one of the interpretations in this National Assembly. It was significant that none of the members of the coalition then questioned any of these actions. On the contrary, they defended and defended every corruption affair individually. Obviously, corruption is desirable and honorable for the parties to the current ruling coalition if they do not catch you directly, of course. The result of this and widespread corruption, as well as the failure to fight corruption at the time of the current government, is that Slovenia has collapsed on the competitiveness scales, and if you look, ladies and gentlemen, at the World Competitiveness Yearbook, Slovenia is, unfortunately, here under this government entirely on its tail. In front of it are countries, you will not believe such as Romania, Peru or Kazakhstan. You still remember the movie Borat. Well, you'll see, it won't be long before the same people in this Parliament who once forged Borut Pahor in the stars and defended his banner "Slovenia is better to lead", his abilities and his purpose to deal with corruption, thundered "Better Borat than Borut" and tried to replace it with the god of knowledge to whom and silenced him that all the other alternatives that they can offer are even worse, because Borut is certainly the most capable among them and also the closest to European values. In order to ease this red thread of its rule — all corruption, all corruption — in the eyes of the public, then the ruling coalition went on its nose not many months ago to adopt a new Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. She made one very interesting partisan goulash out of the principle provisions on the fight against corruption and lobbying, and the club warned SDS that lobbying is an extremely difficult material that is treated everywhere in the world in specific laws and very precisely left the law practically as it was originally proposed. Most of the amendments, almost all proposed by the SDS, were rejected, as always. The result was that we now have a law, which is not only not effective in preventing corruption – because it was probably not the intention of the proposer in terms of their actual behaviour – but it is doing real damage, because institutions simply cannot act optimally because of the totally inanimate provisions of the existing law. Let me just say that it is an obstacle – in addition to municipal officials, institutions – to Members in their work. He asks you questions all the time, in theory, someone can talk you out of it, and in practice, there will be no confusion, somewhere, some questions, recommend a matter and then report to the committee that he was a lobbyist. You didn't happen to know him, and you wouldn't believe in a serious offense and publicly burned that you were lobbied and didn't report it, you didn't even know it. Such confusion is the existing law that you, ladies and gentlemen, have adopted despite the warnings of the SDS. Because it is aware that the actual damage to the country by this law, including the Commission itself, is being done, in fact, a proposal for amendments in its core and a supplement to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption has emerged. And despite the fact that the former Secretary of State, who you once just put on this place, is your policy, that his basic proposal, further ruined his idea with the amendments that have already been adopted. Some are quite strange, but some are still proposed by the coalition. And once again, we have some non-operational law, and it will obviously remain that way, given the majority in this House, which will cause much damage and will certainly not effectively prevent corruption. Therefore, since you have further damaged the well-intentioned proposal made by the Commission itself, we will not support it at the vote of Members and Members of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, colleague and colleague! Don't mind me if, unlike the speaker, I focus on the content of the law. [[advertising from the hall]] If you step on your tail, it's just, like, wheeze. And Mr Grimes is the same. Let me start by saying that we will support the bill in the parliamentary group. We agree with the regulation of approaches to measures and methods to enhance integrity and transparency, as well as measures to prevent corruption and to address conflicts of interest which are the basis of an effective market, as well as of course respect for fundamental moral and ethical principles. As it is said, by the Government, we believe that the additions proposed by the Group of Members are reasonable and justified, in particular, by the difficulties identified in the application of the provisions of this Act in practice. This does not change the basic principles of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Some of the legal provisions are regulated more clearly and more transparently, and the implementation of this law will, in our view, be easier. The proposal by the Group of Members to amend and supplement this law covers those things that are essential for the effective quality of control and prevention, thereby achieving strategic objectives in the area of increasing integrity and reducing corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed changes and additions should provide a better basis for achieving the strategic objectives set in the fight against corruption and consequently improve Slovenia's position in the field of anti-corruption in the international environment. In particular, we welcome the following key substantive solutions. It is proposed that a clear and concrete definition of the Commission's anti-corruption procedures, including a clearer definition of the legal guarantees that individuals have in possible procedures before the Commission, is made clear and clear. A supplement to the anti-corruption clause requiring disclosure or control of the existence, as already mentioned, of silent partners, optional and future contracts or offshore indirect ownership of private entities operating with the State is also proposed. What seems particularly important to us is that some shortcomings are also addressed in the regulation of the protection of corruption applicants or, as they are called "whistleblowers" in English. A new definition of lobbying is also proposed, to a greater extent following foreign good practices and allowing the Commission to exercise real control over this area by directing its activities towards the transparency of lobbying and lobbying control as an activity and eliminating the monopoly of professional lobbyists. This may have caused opposition to this law to be heard, and in the same breath it was heard that lobbying was a difficult thing. And now that this monopoly is clearly over, there are some problems with that. At the same time, disproportionate measures such as the publication of changes in the property situation of all persons involved in procurement procedures are limited. As far as the amendments proposed by the SDS Group are concerned, we would like to recall in the Really Group the new SDS policy a number of attempts to put an end to and disable the Commission's action to prevent corruption. The previous ruling coalition, for example, with the Minister of Public Administration at the head, with the assistance of some Members and later the Minister of Justice, wanted the Commission to cross or derail its functioning in any way. Of course, we cannot go beyond the scandalous leadership of the National Assembly Commission to oversee the work of the Commission to prevent corruption by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has been abolished by the new law. Given the moral integrity of its President, we can only be grateful that this is the case. According to these amendments, the Slovenian Democratic Party has not yet waived the possibility of incorporating into the law the political mechanisms that would interfere with the functional independence of the Commission, without even concealing that, when dealing with and controlling the property situation, they want to infiltrate the privacy and personal data of the debtors under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. At the same time, we can hear a repeat of the theory that ignorance of the law is no big deal – if it is not known that there is some violation of the law, that it is probably not – it is a considerable simplification of this subject and shows a real commitment to preventing corruption. We are also tired of continuing attempts to table amendments that have already been rejected and do not have an adequate legal basis or are contrary to the rules of the institutions of the European Union. Let us once again reiterate that officials who are in a position – appointed by international organisations – are those who are not subject to Slovenian legislation, regardless of whether they have been appointed by the Government or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments, as we say, will not be supported, but the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! Almost exactly a year ago, I pointed out from this pay phone when I presented the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group in adopting the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and I warned that the law contained too much opacity and uncertainty, that there was too little vitality in certain points and that we were afraid that they would be difficult to implement in practice. Members of the Slovenian People's Party did not support the law at that time. But our hunches proved to be justified, for we are changing and supplementing the law for the second time in a bad year. This time it is a fairly specific correction, as we are changing more than a third of the articles, so it is somewhat inappropriate that the matter is taken after a reduced procedure, because in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are convinced that we could find a further complement and a better solution in the course of a more thorough discussion. We are talking about a law that needs a lot of feedback to improve. We must admit that in the area of persecuting corruption something is moving and that certain controls are felt, certain positive pressures are felt with demands for greater transparency in the work of authorities and officials, and this is commendable. While the law still does not, in our opinion, fully define the dictates of lobbying arrangements, because there is now a great deal of confusion in this area, even though certain improvements are proposed. We estimate that some of the problems in interpreting this law will remain and that work will have to be done in this area in the future, in order to find a solution that can also be implemented in an ongoing manner. Until then, we must also rely on common sense. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we estimate that all the changes involved in this amendment of the law are going in the right direction, that the law is made useful and that it serves its purpose, and that is why we will support it. However, we do not see any obstacle in the law not to take into account the amendments of the SDS Group, to take under control also the officials from the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions and other bodies of the European Union and other international institutions sent to these institutions on the basis of a decision or with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly. These are, among other things, representatives of Slovenia in the world and after the recent events in relation to the former Slovenian Member in the European Parliament and the disgraced reputation of Slovenia, such an addition to the law cannot cause any harm. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed legislative changes will facilitate the work of the anti-corruption commission, which, in truth, is one of the few public authorities that still enjoys the trust of people. Therefore, as has already been said, we will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. However, the process of establishing better conditions for the work of the anti-corruption commission is far from over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is being amended this time for the second time within one year of its adoption. This time, too, there are changes and additions that are essential for the effective quality of control and prevention, thereby achieving strategic objectives in the area of increasing integrity and reducing corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed changes and additions should provide a better basis for achieving the strategic objectives set in the fight against corruption and consequently improve Slovenia's position in the field of anti-corruption in the international environment. Also, according to the applicant, they constitute proactive action in view of the identified shortcomings of the current regime and the real difficulties in implementing the provisions of the law. The key content solutions of the proposal include a legal, consistent and specific definition of basic concepts, such as: autonomous definition of an official, internationally comparable definition of lobbying and lobbyists, a more comprehensive definition of the public sector, managers in companies with a majority or dominant public interest, coverage of the whole range of types of public procurement, inclusion of non-profit benefits as a possible element of private benefit. It is proposed to be clear and specific, in particular a transparent definition of the procedures of the competent anti-corruption commission with the suspicion of corruption. A clearer definition of the legal guarantees held by individuals in pre-commission proceedings is included. A supplement to the anti-corruption clause requiring disclosure or control of the existence of silent partners, optional and future contracts or offshore indirect ownership of private entities operating with the State is proposed. It is also intended to remove individual administrative obstacles in obtaining data to determine the actual situation in the field of limitation, business and control of assets by establishing a legal basis for electronic commerce and depositing. The responsibility of the supervisory authorities and the responsible persons responsible for acting in the event of detected corruption or infringement of integrity plans shall be increased by their subordinates. Certain shortcomings in the regulation of protection of corruption applicants are addressed. At the same time, the amendment strengthens the transparency and internal integrity of the Commission itself by introducing regular internal audits – establishing mandatory criteria for priority cases. Among other things, a new definition of lobbying is proposed, to a greater extent following foreign good practices and allowing the Commission to exercise real control over this area by directing its activities towards the transparency of lobbying and lobbying control as an activity. A monopoly of professional lobbyists is also being removed. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption are reasonable and justified, in particular due to some of the problems identified in the application of the provisions of this Law in practice. At the same time, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions do not change the structure and objectives of the rule of law, but that some legislative provisions are regulated more clearly and more transparently. However, provisions are being added that will make it easier and more transparent to implement the purpose of this law and that is why we will also support the new proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you so much for your word and a nice hello! One year old existing marriage is bad. And these changes are actually just as bad, because they do virtually nothing. All amendments proposed, notably by the SDS, the opposition, were not accepted and rejected. In fact, one wonders what is the reason for this law proposed by the coalition MPs and has not been proposed by the Government. What does it mean to be here on your own, perhaps Mrs. Minister of the Interior, and that the purpose of the law is to wash her face and save her skin? It's probably what's most important about the matter. For it is interesting that there was no negotiation, no agreement with the members of the opposition concerning this law. Everything was done quietly, in one strange way, in a very strange way, I would say, a very strange way that changes almost a third of the articles, of which we didn't really know anything. And even after a reduced procedure, it has been suggested that we should not open up too much debate and discuss the things that the law seems to want to bring to a small door. In the end, the bill's proponents did not consult other state authorities, for example, an information officer, which would make sense to do so, so that one wonders whether the purpose of this is simply to obtain the Commission's new power to prevent corruption. That, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, which is in the hands of the same party, also this commission, which has the President in fact from the former Ministry of the Interior, can act on strange samples and will also have the explicit right to propose the discharge of an official, an official in office or an executive in the event of any corruption – of course, it writes "in case of major corruption", but greater corruption may vary. When someone they don't like is, say, a coalition act of corruption is a dinner. But when "ours" are, then, a corrupt act is all that comes into the pocket of more than €11 million. So he takes a man here unwittingly to the question of the National Investigation Office. Then one begins to think about various collections of luxury cars of Slovenian officials when the tax was not paid and so on. Then he takes a man to the Hypo Bank and to various mortgages of certain properties and so on. In short, a very interesting proposal, which, of course, I must say, will by no means receive support from the Slovenian National Party. It is interesting, then, that the law extends the commitment to register property also to the officials of the State Audit Commission, but one wonders why not to the various gentlemen, the officials who were sent to Europe on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Cwickl, Mr. Rob Navp, despite the strange connections that appear with companies involved in the case around Patria – namely with the company Viator & Vector, Systemic Technology – these gentlemen will be able to reign there abroad and push themselves nicely in their pockets, what I know, how much money – twenty, twenty-five thousand euros a month or so. And then there's lobbying. You don't know what lobbying is. Let's just say there was this charming lady at my house today and she invited me to dinner. Now I don't know if it's lobbying or corruption? Because I don't know how long this dinner is going to take – but what if there's a breakfast going to go with it, which will then exceed this total and then the corruption commission will ask me? Who's gonna pay for this now, miss or me? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, I see two. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u180	Although Article 2 relates to Article 12, please allow me two sentences of the introduction. While we have been repeating some things for a very long time, they simply do not sound like the fact that in the past term we have abolished the anti-corruption commission – we have left the anti-corruption commission in peace in the past term, but we have transferred part of its powers concerning officials to the Court of Auditors – but I must repeat this because some do not want to hear. As far as this law is concerned, or now these amendments, something has to be said. Look, last year at about the same time we discussed this marriage, it was great, it was the best I was going to watch a magnetogram, I didn't find in a coalition one single sceptical word on this marriage, in short, the coalition prepared and accepted something similar to a kilo of pure gold. [[...]] But it's not true, we warned last year that this law that was passed last year has a kind of flaw, kind of a problem to be with it and so on. Not only the problems mentioned by Mr Jelinčič, but the entire hall laughed a little while while he was talking, but just let us do a little bit of that and think about when you might have problems in the case of lobbying. I think very seriously on every phone call, whether I have to do something or not to do anything, but I went to the marriage and all those principled opinions that the commission gave, thoroughly, thoroughly brother. And I am not sure that all Members know what is and what is not lobbying. Sooner or later someone will find out, so can I, in a situation like this. Look, after less than a year, we pass the law – well, it was submitted by the parliamentary group or by Mr Saiovic with a group of Members, but I hope and believe that this law was also created with the cooperation of Mr Klemenčič. And given that I am just mentioning his name, I also have to say something clearly - as much as I was a little skeptical last year when I was appointed, I have to be cautiously optimistic about many positive signals; there is still a chronic, we know which one, I think, of the one talking about the NPU. And to go to the amendment; look, this amendment, what does this amendment actually propose? Some kind of solution, which is also called some kind of control over this committee. We had, in my opinion, serious problems with the independent authorities in this country and I am therefore referring to this amendment; this amendment establishes some control over a commission that is not there today. However, it appears that all oranias in this country or all institutions in this country that do not have control are problematic cases, as well as if they are called the judicial branch of power. Even if they're called the judicial branch of power! Look, if it can happen, I have to mention that it can happen that someone is sentenced to 11 years in prison because he threatens the President of the Government, I like him very much. But I can never take an independent decision by an independent court that says, "Since he was a judge in the hospital, the persecution of the one who threatened to do something similar to Kramberger is outdated." Because the judge was in the hospital, that's what independent authorities do! I do not wish to think anything wrong about the current leadership of the Commission, but I have a principled opinion that, in relation to this Article 2 and the amendment, which I do not like most, I think there are even better solutions, but at least there is a temporary solution, in my opinion, which establishes control over the commission. As far as I know from an informal conversation, the Commission itself does not object to controlling its work. Now, of course, form needs to be discussed. We have clearly set out in the previous law that this is supervised by the parliamentary commission, the special parliamentary commission, which has been for such or other reasons, I will not put them up, put them down. But now it's kind of halfway transferred under the so-called "Mandatory Election Commission." The mandate-election commission – since I am also a member there and I know how much work it has – will never be able to do well. We do not have a special parliamentary commission, so we propose what in this amendment? These reports, which the Commission would send to the National Assembly. I am deeply convinced that this solution is in some way a half-solution, because the final solution should still be in another law or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if you want to set up a commission. And I stress that, as far as I know, the leadership of the Commission does not oppose control, because it is aware that every institution simply needs control. And I think that this amendment should, however, be supported or amended so that it is acceptable and acceptable if you feel that something needs to be changed if there is a problem with this. In any case, I do not think it would be good for the National Assembly to reject this amendment and thus close the law. Either in this or in the next term, we will come to some institutional form of supervision of these Commissions. Everyone, I emphasize, needs everyone's control. And it is not good that we have some independent bodies of this kind – but not only do I think of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, I think of others, especially the judiciary, but of someone else rather than this commission – but the fundamental rule that everyone must have control should apply. And that is why I think that this amendment would support, even if it were supplemented, modified or anything; rejecting this amendment means that we will have a blind intestine in the legislation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u181	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you. The content of this amendment, which I certainly propose on behalf of the SDS and I also support, is the institutionalisation of greater cooperation between the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the National Assembly as an institution. Such cooperation is certainly in the interests of the State and for the benefit of both sides. As far as I am aware, he is not opposed to it, nor is the Commission itself having any doubts about a better, greater level of cooperation. The only one that prevents this is the existing ruling coalition in the National Assembly, and I therefore continue to justify where one of the coalition's supporters ended up by saying, "some here obviously have problems with lobbying", because I fully agree with it – but not only with lobbying; the current ruling coalition has apparently the worst problems both with the regulation of lobbying at the legal level and with lobbying as such. That he has problems with the legal arrangements of the lobbying is the best evidence of today’s session, for after only a few months he changes a large portion of the law on his nose, which she adopted as the best possible by herself in this hall with great words. However, that he also has difficulties with lobbying as such proves all those corruption affairs that we have witnessed since the establishment of the current coalition and its takeover of power two and a half years ago — and probably some other follow-up — and that these corrupt methods have apparently been transferred to Europe, as evidenced by the case of Mr Thaler, the holder of the SD list, the biggest government party that was caught in the corruption of the illegal lobbying and the flags, with his pants down, and gave up, ladies and gentlemen, only after the intervention by the European Parliament came, not on its own or at your request. This is something that should give everyone thought and everything very, very much to worry about, and that is why it is clear to me why you are losing out on the greater, better cooperation proposed in the SDS amendment with an institution aimed at preventing corruption – because you are afraid of being distracted before your own threshold.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u183	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Madam Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. In view of the discussion of the predecessors, I would just like to point out that the regulation already in force in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption entails both the obligation to report to the National Assembly, the supervision of the work of the Commission, which is within the competence of the National Assembly, but, of course, the law does not give precise instructions on how this should be done in an organisational manner within the National Assembly, since we were at the stage of preparing the first draft last year by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it is pointed out that it is not the competence of the legislator – the Government – to intervene in the internal organisation of the National Assembly set out by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u185	Here you go, Mr Grimes, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u186	I am merely pointing out the great difference between the existing regulation and the amendment proposed by the SDS, which significantly expands this cooperation between the National Assembly and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in view of the current regulation in the law, since it allows this cooperation on both sides, that the National Assembly or its competent working body have the possibility to propose something and the Commission, of course, because it is an independent, sovereign decision, but it reports its findings and decisions accordingly to the National Assembly. This is much broader than the current scale, which is, in fact, highly unilateral, and in this case, the National Assembly is the one who is actually a more accommodating, but cannot be a more active participant in this process. I firmly believe that it must be in the interest of both institutions and I once again warn – also by the Commission, very clear signals have been given that it does not oppose a greater form of cooperation. You are opposed to participation in the government and the ruling coalition, and you know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u187	Ma'am mag. Spending, here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am not going to support this amendment, even though someone is so enormously explaining why there is no support for it. But some kind of dispute over powers between one branch of power or between the commission and the National Assembly has already been and has experienced the epilogue and I will not raise the epilogue. But what seems to me quite personally to be unacceptable may happen that in the role of supervisor someone who would be most needed and then may be involved in a conflict of interest – how we had a happy hand in choosing the leader of a commission, so it is known and must be a judicial branch or a judicial branch of authority to be spoken of about some people. [[...]] This, Mr Vice-President, I hope that you will not interrupt me, because this should actually be a replica – but I must just say that the reasoning of some Members when they explain their views, in particular political indiscretions, that their imagination is absolutely incredible and the argument is a kilowatt. If anyone on the other hand had read an interview with someone who credited him with some credit for the European Member's resignation, he might have noticed that former European Member Thaler had resigned and that none of the outside influenced the decisions related to the representatives of our party and the leadership of our party. Mr Grims, you can hold your hand up for three hours and say that five more times – the future President of the European Parliament said in an interview that he was not the one to demand. Well, Jerovšek's going to be "blowing" about these things, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u189	No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u190	But it's just plain rude. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u191	Ma'am mag. Spending, I have to cut this thing loose. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u192	It's just plain rude how they abuse [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u193	Can I please just stop this thing?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u194	I asked you to let me tell you to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u195	I've been very tolerant and I've let you talk for a long time. Please stop. We are discussing Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 and I ask that you stick to this because this debate is not going anywhere. Mr. Grimes, you raised your hand. There's no replica on the replica. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. Sign up for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you. After this presentation of inappropriate conduct in Parliament, it must be said that we have old Slovenian negotiations [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u197	That's what I've been talking about, please, about Article 2 and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u198	It is precisely because of Article 2 that some are extremely afraid. I don't know what they made up. I've heard before that on our side we want to hack into personal data. As the highest supervisory body around the world, Parliament should periodically receive data on the state of corruption and the prevention of corruption from the Commission to prevent corruption. I tell you, it is precisely because of these setbacks, which are caused by fear on the other hand, that the Members present before me, that this is absolutely necessary, but not so much because of us, but also because of the protection of the Commission itself, the President of the Commission. We are aware and know that a professor of sociology — well-informed, lucid — said a few months ago that within the government coalition there was a conclusion that the current president of the anti-corruption commission was uncontrollable and dangerous for the coalition and that he would have to be declared crazy and put in a mental hospital by the old communist methods. Think of the scenarios that are being made! That was presented. Of course, no one from the government coalition denied it, he got sick because probably the professor in question had more information, because he could have expanded the crane more and it would have been much worse for the government coalition. And that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a good purpose among members of the government coalition, it is necessary to do what this amendment foresees – occasional reporting, of course, with a brief indication of the suspicion of corruption. And that's the most painful, brief indication of the suspicion of corruption. This is the most painful thing for this government coalition. For if it unfolds a little, a little look, then of course more and more data will come. Until they drew Mr Thaler's attention from abroad, he was at home, even for the party of the Social Democrats she had chosen, of course, this most trustworthy person, the most trustworthy politician. However, the Sunday Times said, "we did not randomly choose, there were indications of such behaviour" and I sent an initiative to the Government to examine whether the Government was behind the Spanish compromise and extremely clever when Mr Thaler was the Foreign Minister, that such a moment was necessary – then I was a Member – to write down the Spanish compromise; are these the indications behind which the Sunday Times is talking about, or does he also have that corrupt background? And we know today that, for the last time, on the Committee on European Affairs, we have considered that this compromise was extremely bad for property in Slovenian Krass. At that time, everyone made sure that this would not result. Today they are being brought and Slovenia has not negotiated on the basis of an extremely poor Spanish compromise for an additional transitional period. That's very interesting, too. They've tied someone's hands together, and now I think it's about time the government could answer my question, and it hasn't answered me yet. I don't know, I didn't notice that this is an extremely logical question and an initiative anywhere. See, this is precisely why the provisions contained in this Article and relating to Article 12 of the existing law are extremely important. Don't put our heads in the sand, don't convince us that in this country corruption will cease in itself. This is clearly the greatest evil in this country, and it has plunged itself into the very tops of power. The ministers, the former, must resign. As a result, we allow this National Assembly to help fight corruption. I believe that there are quite a few Members of the ruling coalition who do not have their own fears of corruption. That there are quite a few, and at least those I hope will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u199	Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Did you raise your hand? You're giving up. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u200	Look, if you look at this amendment as part of the other amendments proposed by the SDS, you can see what our purpose was here. The law is now the same as it is, and those articles in which, according to our assessment, we should still be cut, some we can't even cut anymore because they are either closed or not under consideration in amending this law. But that's just another job. However, to now, at least through the adoption of these amendments, legalise greater cooperation between the two institutions, that is to say between the National Assembly on the one hand and the Anti-Corruption Commission on the other, simplified, on the other hand, while both of them can actively cooperate, but only on the proposal of the National Assembly, i.e. no order, and thus the institutional independence of the Commission is maintained. Such cooperation is certainly in the interest of both, but if you look at it as part of the other amendments, you will see that this would allow such cooperation when it comes to officials in the territory of the State of Slovenia and also for all those who carry out their tasks within the institutions of the European Union. For these officials too, we want to – and propose appropriate amendments – extend the possibility of control, because this control is ineffective there. This is what these institutions themselves recognise and propose that countries find appropriate solutions. We have also put forward appropriate arguments on this point in the consideration of the basic law. Therefore, if you look at it as a whole, it is really a matter of good cooperation between the two institutions and of including officials at the level of the European Union. For if such cooperation were to continue all the time, if this thing were to be more operational, more life-saving, more efficient, then there would certainly be less chance that there would be excesses to which we have witnessed. Not only did the respected holder of the SD list resign only after that call came from the European Union – but I was talking about a timetable that is irrefutable – earlier. I would also warn that he now foretells that he will even sue back all those who have listened to him or who have exposed his actions. By doing so, this joyous corruption of the ruling coalition is further transferred to the level of the European Union and is further undermining the country of Slovenia in the eyes of all the democratic countries of Europe and the whole world. That's what makes us smile abroad. It is therefore a matter of establishing good cooperation between different institutions in order to effectively prevent corruption. This is also supposed to be the basic objective of the law, as you have been stressing this all along. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u201	Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u202	Very briefly. We're at an amendment that talks about control or cooperation or whatever, between the National Assembly and this committee. Look, this 20th article -- I looked at Mrs Purgo's and went to look at the article, which I already know from the committee, but that article that the secretary of state was saying -- is actually written that the commission is reporting. But if we remember the reports of the previous, so-called Kosovo Commission, and the structures of those reports, you could see that about 75% of the public opinion poll in Slovenia was as a separate publication that they had done there and 25% of the other data. So the report could be like this. I don't think that's good. I repeat that, in my opinion, this amendment is also not worth the gold, far from it. But it is better than the present solution and builds on the present solution. However, the final upgrade would probably be by amending another rule to set up a commission in this National Assembly. Because, I repeat, every organ, every institution needs control. Someone said before, I think Mrs. Potrata was, in some cases, you just can't doubt and so on. No, there must be doubt in all cases. Also, the prosecutor, including the district judge, who else can commit a corrupt act, can commit a crime or anything. Last but not least, since the Constitution also provides for another option if anyone else does anything. What do I mean? Based on the fact that every institution needs control – as far as I know, the commission in the current composition does not oppose this control – I see no reason not to improve it with this amendment. Probably upgraded, I don't know, rules of procedure or whatever else has to be upgraded with any commission. However, I am also sorry that the Government has not notified the Director of the Anti-Corruption Commission to cooperate and to discuss when there is something else to say on this subject. So much for now. But I'll ask for your word on the next amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u203	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Well welcomed, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! I understand that skepticism, doubt always – in the past, is and will – in one way drive to improve, to find new solutions, to find more modern, modern, efficient and so on. But of course, all the way to a certain limit. I strongly support every idea, every proposal, every initiative for an effective institutional and, finally, I think systematic monitoring, because supervision is actually an integral part of any process, I think, finally, also the work process of such and different commissions. It is only, I must admit, that I did not really understand this amendment in my essence; perhaps you, Mr Gorenak, could explain to me how and how you saw it. It's true that it's a shame that the chairman of the commission isn't here or is present in a place where he can't answer himself, but he can still come, right? So that all those doubts and suspicions that have, in one way, could be solved. Because you know, lobbying is just, we know, history, we've already read the textbooks. I have even read here how many lobbyist organisations we have registered in the European Union. We know that there are problems with registering lobbyist organisations and individuals in Slovenia, but of course, these are steps in the process when one thing is built up when it is defined, and this is a normal process. But such doubt and so much doubt, it is true if it will lead to one new value, something better, certainly, but in this way perhaps I did not understand enough of these clear abominations of yours. [[...]] [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u205	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The existing Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption itself has proved in practice to be a law that needs to be supplemented. Last but not least, for example, Members – I have been explained in section 4 of the law – that even sent offices can no longer be placed at the seat of a local party if this was in conflict of interest. And I think that most of us have, for logical and practical reasons, their office at the headquarters of the local party. I have it at the seat of the Social Democrats in Cyprus, because it seems practical, logical to me, because it is a matter of exploiting a space that is already available and because, after all, it is also a grant to the Member's office – a monthly allowance for having an office in the local area – EUR 200. We know you're renting a special office for a square and a half. So this is just one of the practical consequences of an illogically written law that needs to be supplemented, because either those who wrote it were illogical, or those who read it today read it illogically. And from this I will go to the debate on Article 2 and on the amendment proposal, whose meaning I understand and in a certain direction I think makes sense, and I would be prepared to support it. By making sense of this dictatorship somehow to complement, perhaps to go wider. Wider in the sense that it is not a matter of reporting to the National Assembly, where then a limited group of people – let's face it, the majority of Members of these reports are unfortunately not reading, but we have tons of paper that collect and come from the courier to the Member's desk and from the Members' tables go to the recycling box. So that perhaps it would be more reasonable to talk — and if this amendment is adopted, it will be possible to do so in the third reading, or by further amending the law — it would be more reasonable to talk about, for example, the publication of certain data on the website, and in order to make it clear what information and what effect these data will have. I'm coming from a tragic story that went so wrong that I couldn't believe it myself. Many times, a certain consideration that the Commission has also carried out to clarify, find, almost by official duty, the basis for putting you on the pile – I don’t think I’m the only one who has ever tasted it – of course when there’s a suspicion. In my case, it was a debate and a suspicion that why I did not report someone who was supposed to bribe me — but of course I did not accept this bribe and immediately rejected it from the very beginning. The logic was, "yeah, why didn't you go report it right away?"or else it happened before the law was in force. But, please, there is also some measure of human reason when you know when some attempt at bribery is real, serious and for some purpose, when the matter is still at such a stage, that if you stop it in time, it is not mature, and you know that you can close the matter and that there will never be any attempt on that person ever again, not even hint at anything like that. But of course, because of its own indiscretion in the statement, or perhaps too much honesty in the statement and conversation with the media, it has failed by even having an anti-corruption ear plug. Well, it's understandable that she cut her ears, came to talk, quite informally, asked about some things, but in the meantime the story was already such that I was a few hours old, of course, because the media must also pump it up, so was Zoran Thaler number two, even though I was a hint of possible bribery right from the very beginning and I didn't take it seriously. But no matter what, it was a problem. Why am I exposing this problem? Because tomorrow or today, when someone else finds themselves in a similar situation – and we know that the Members are quickly in this situation – and only some research will be open to him, then you will be exposed to public media. So, here we have to find out somehow, yes, that these procedures should be public, and I agree with this purpose. On the other hand, it may be necessary for all of us, together with the public, to mature the fact that what the anti-corruption commission is doing is not always and in itself a first-class political affair, but many times it is a matter of learning certain facts, which can then be followed by certain activities. So I think that part of the amendment that speaks of the need for corruption during a brief indication of the suspicion of corruption, especially the indication of the stage that this part is very meaningful and should be finalized, so that we all know clearly what kind of soup we are swimming in. To know whether the Commission is investigating something because it has heard and it is right to inquire to find out the end of the end in the interest of everyone, but most of all it is in the interest of what it points to with its finger to explain itself as soon as possible and to find out whether it is a problem or then that person can say, "Well, you see, there was nothing on it, and the Commission has looked, found out and went on." If this amendment is adopted, we will have the opportunity to complete this third consideration. However, if it is not accepted, which is probable under the rules of the opposition-coalition, I invite the drafters of this amendment to join the other Members of the coalition and to try to better address this issue together, even after all, with the Commission, and to reach greater transparency and greater public on the one hand, but at the same time, when we are more transparent and public, even more relaxed in all these matters, so that we can finally talk publicly about the fact that attempts of corruption exist. I think that many of us, as well as in the public authorities, are subject to attempts at corruption and that many of us are already simply being rejected immediately, because of course they do not want to have anything to do with it, and in this way they are already doing an immediate initial censorship against trying to go to such games at all. I think that the situation of corruption has improved in these twenty years, but we must be careful that we do not come from one extreme of "The Balkans of Corruption" in which I think we have lived – and even after all, the Taiwanese credits are the result of this way of thinking – that we will not come to that other stage of some exaggerated fear, because then we risk that both Members and Ministers and State officials will be afraid to talk about anything with anyone so that we will not be suspected of anything. This will be bad for the country, because the state will shut itself down, people will no longer have access to it, they will not be able to present concrete problems, problems and the country will no longer be able to improve our situation in this world by hand with civil society, the economy, the social order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, I object to this amendment because it obscures the separation and definition of the competence of individual authorities in this process of detecting corruption and overseeing the conduct of both the anti-corruption commission and of other procedures carried out on the basis of the proposals of the anti-corruption commission. I am aware that, of course, this area, which is developing very intensively and changing in the modern world, is also developing internationally, so that a number of international organisations are actually proposing changes to the basic standards that ensure the conduct of detection and prosecution of corruption. So it is also logical that we in our country will have to make new and new changes to this legislation more quickly. However, as I say, I am convinced that the powers of both parties and of the third parties in these processes must be very precisely demarcated. In fact, this amendment blurs out this distinction, for imposing an anti-corruption commission to warn and inform the National Assembly about the stages in which individual concrete cases are dealt with means nothing more than that the National Assembly, as a political body, is directly involved in the anti-corruption commission’s activities, which, of course, should be independent and independent in its procedure and procedure imposed by law. And the question was, "Who's gonna control the supervisors?"if I understand correctly. The system must be so placed that everyone has someone to control it. But it cannot be the National Assembly who will supervise and then say whether the Anti-Corruption Commission, in the particular case of France, Joseph and Loizet, is right and proper or not. And here, in fact, the whole point of this amendment is flawed, because it is moving away from those goals and targets that are supposed to be pursued by the relevant anti-corruption commissions or relevant authorities that are supposed to be set up in a separate country for this purpose. And, of course, here this amendment is also an expression of some desire for voyeurism or, if you say even more precisely, after having the National Assembly – that is to say, politicians, and Members are, we are politicians – control over whether he, in particular, is, or she, at some stage under the magnifying glass of the anti-corruption commission. I strongly oppose this because I do not think that the purpose of such a provision of law can be to allow, say, specific Members a privileged position, because we know that we Members are also obliged to report their assets and their actions, which may include elements of the criminal offence of corruption. So I am convinced that those who propose this amendment are not aware of the consequences of the adoption of such an amendment or, of course, want to bring a provision through this procedure, which would then allow them some kind of privileged position. It is a pity, since the President of the National Assembly has already ceased his task and role here today, that is, I protest against how he rejected the debate of my colleague Majde Potrate, because he has shown very different criteria for how he assesses the debate of someone else who introduced a new terminus technique, namely, to get, catch someone and flags, means to catch them with pants down, and when she used the term "blouse", it was, of course, totally inappropriate and inappropriate for a debate and level of debate in this National Assembly. I think the chairman before that, that wasn't you, a little too much discretionary rights at the expense of inadequacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you. In the light of the words just spoken by the honourable Member, I would like to point out that all those objectives that her client colleague Juri spoke about just before her are, in fact, achievable only if today these amendments proposed by the SDS are adopted at the head of this first, of course. Then something else can be changed during the third stage of the hearing, otherwise the articles are closed and all remains as proposed. Counting on the fact that I don't know how much more time it will be for further novelties of the law on the same subject, I think it's pretty unrealistic for a government that goes one by one with its coalition or the parties from this coalition. What I wanted to say was, however, a question, including those from the SD, which had previously made a wish to further argue the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the SDS, and to point out that, due to the European Parliament's disclosure of the corruption of the SD carrier, Mr Thaler, a very clear warning was given — the President himself, the European President of the European Parliament, in Europe, said that he would be very careful to observe how the countries from which those caught by journalists in corruption would have acted in these proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an opportunity to make this very clear by adopting this law. However, this message will be convincing if you, by adopting our amendments, prove that now, better late than never, at least you are looking for some higher level of consensus in the pursuit of corruption, some persecution of conduct that is inconsistent with European standards, and therefore take into account another opinion, so that you are serious. It is already in the interest of Slovenia and, if you wish, it is also in your party's interest to show by acting to seek a greater degree of consensus in the pursuit of corruption, so that you want this persecution to be more effective, because now because of the conduct of your carrier, Mr Thaler's letter, we are also, after this work, under the supervision of the entire European Union. That is why we have also proposed a greater degree of cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, and of course the autonomy of the Commission which decides is finally maintained and, on the other hand, we wanted to include in the law, with appropriate amendments, officials who carry out their tasks from Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Saiovic made a statement as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendments to Article 2 as well as the following articles – Articles 15 and 33 – I will limit myself to 2 in the debate, because we are talking about it now. The amendment to Article 2 does not benefit from the support of the signatories, as it also affects the concept of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, and the purpose of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which we have adopted, has also been different, since the legislator is also in the process of implementing the convention standards, then, if we also refer to the constitutional practice of preventing corruption, which he has enforced and implemented in this law, and if we go forward with the amendments, then we will certainly expose the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption to the field of political accounting and intervene in its competence. [[...]] The Convention itself stresses in Article 6 that each State Party, in accordance with the fundamental principles of its legal regime, shall ensure the existence of an authority or, where appropriate, authorities preventing corruption in the manner laid down in national and international anti-corruption law. In the same article, the Convention further provides that States Parties shall ensure that that authority, and this seems to me to be essential, necessary independence. Therefore, this independence must be not only formal but also factual, and by applying the amendment to Article 2 it would certainly be disrupted. The aim is to enable an authority such as the Anti-Corruption Commission to carry out its tasks effectively and without influence. And in the event of the adoption of this amendment, it would certainly have an impact. Furthermore, the State is obliged to inform directly the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the fulfilment of those conditions and the competent convention body of the decision of the Republic of Slovenia to implement those Convention standards in the manner laid down in the current integrity law has already been notified by the Authority. In addition to the Convention standards, however, it was also based on the fundamental principle of the rule of law, as our Slovenian Constitutional Court has also found in the decisions on the duty of the State to prevent corruption. And these things are certainly important. In our opinion, the amendment certainly has a disproportionate impact on the Commission's guaranteed functional autonomy in the handling and control of assets, and the proposal does not even hide that it wants to enter into an area with political mechanisms that concerns important issues both privacy and personal data of the debtors following the original Act on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr Gorenak has the floor to prepare Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I would politely try to answer Mrs Montenegro, who has also politely addressed one question to me, but I will not say to one other Member's debate that it was a "blossom", and I will not say that. Mrs. Montenegro, our purpose was exactly what Mr. Yuri said. I do not claim that this amendment of gold is worth, as Mr Sayovic claims, that the law of gold is worth it. He said the same thing last year that gold is valuable, and now it has 30 articles changed. So he wasn't worth the gold. Yeah, that's right. And even for our amendment, I'm not saying you have to buy it for dry gold. However, I submit that the supervision of the commission is necessary. We have proposed something here, but I am not saying that this is all that is best, it can be something more, something less. But if the amendment is to be adopted, we can fix it in the third reading. However, if we close it, as is the custom and expectation of Mr Yuri, that the coalition will overrun everything, then this option will no longer be. I would be very happy sometimes if the Sectional Services of the National Assembly were to make me amendments without signatories. Why? Because then the vote would be more interesting because Members would look at the content, and so is the custom – at least with the coalition MPs – you cannot claim this for us because many of the amendments we support – are rejected because it is written by the SDS. But that's bad. But as for this amendment; Mrs Bebler said about this, I said I would not say to that "blossom" because I want to be polite, because you know, you're on one side for supervision, you say, "every institution must be supervised." [[...]] Then tell me, who is to oversee this commission? The government? I don't know. Judge? I don't know. The National Assembly. Probably. I don't know. Someone did. But now, at this point, there's no control. It is written in Article 20 to report, but then we can get 80 pages of public research. Because we can't say what to report. Besides, the obvious fact that we wanted to find ourselves in here and see who he was investigating was not true. There's no personal data here. This article, which is proposed in this amendment, does not contain any personal data, nor does it contain any minimum personal data. It's about stating suspicion, it's about the stage in which it's being handled, and it's about the decision. You can't find Frances, not Pepe and not Micke here. You can't find anyone in here. And I'm not saying, I'm stressing again, I'm not saying that the amendment is good. But I'm saying the current situation isn't good. To refer to independence It is so, it is also an independent parliament. [[...]] May I then ask why I should report to Mr Klemenčič? I'm a member of an independent parliament, aren't I? Then who is this commission that I have to report to her? And I have to, and it's okay for me to report to her. It's a good thing we all report to her. Even politely warn us if we forget something. As much as we're happy with it, it's already happened to me. But it's also the opposite. So it's also about someone watching over the committee. Because you have a typical case in court because no one's watching over them. Nobody. And then, for the same case, they say 11 years in prison, which I don't object to, for a similar case of another president of the government, and in this case, Janša, they say, "it's out of date because the judge was in the hospital." Look, don't tell me I'm attacking the judiciary because I'm not attacking him. But the country, probably this Parliament, must put in place mechanisms to control this. Because, after all, where does it say that someone from the Anti-Corruption Commission, I don't know, even though I already said on the start that the Commission gives me a lot of positive reasons and signals for optimism, but we need to have built-in control and I'm not saying that these items that are written in here are everything and are the best, far from it. [[...]] Let him find the coalition better. For the third reading, let's sit down with the chairman of the commission and find a solution. But it has to be. But it's not good that we have an unsupervised institution. That's not good. And now, given that most of us are also discussing the other amendments, I'm just going to talk about ours. I had a feeling that somehow the debate was open. I do not know which law states whether European, Slovenian, directive or wherever these gentlemen are exempt from Europe. I didn't find it anywhere. Someone tell me the exact law, the exact regulation, the European, Slovenian or any other, where it says that Mr Squeakl, Mr Rob, is not yet bound by this law. Yes, after all, we also have in Europe, as we said, within our Members, and I will not mention Mr Thaler, a shining example. And why let them go now? After all, we have three juries of wages or as much net as I read, some, Mr Cwickl, Mr Rob, have six times as much to decide in some important matters as we probably do, Members who are pressing these buttons here. And they're probably also subject to the possibility of corruption. However, if someone shows me an exact regulation and law that prohibits the introduction of this control to the Slovenian Parliament, I will just shut up. As long as there is no such thing, however, I do not think you want to oversee our people in the European Union. Yeah, there's nothing else. They are subject to the EU. Where does it say we must not bind them with Slovenian legislation? If it says anywhere that the Slovenian Parliament is banned, then I will not defend this amendment. But if it doesn't say so, let's bring it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact is, control and control of the Commission is necessary. That is why this amendment to Article 2 is also necessary, because otherwise it can happen, after all, anything. For example, the second paragraph or fifth indent states that the Commission is obliged to notify the National Assembly in writing by 10 a month of all allegations of corruption filed. It's logical and smart. What, for example, if something is happening — and we all know it is happening — some corrupt act, obviously, clearly, but since it is a friendly corrupt act, everyone is silent about it. And the anti-corruption commission doesn't open any proceedings. Of course, the matter is going to pass, and we will not even know in the National Assembly that they are not dealing with it, but will, for example, find out when the crime has been committed and is obsolete. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, this could not happen. It is true, however, that in this case a coalition contract can also come into play, for each coalition contract is an extremely corrupt contract. Any agreement with the Prime Minister is a corrupt act, for the Prime Minister promises what he will give the Minister to join his government. Every deal between coalition parties is a corrupt act, for they consider what someone will get to give something, or what he will give to get something. And yet that seems to have been allowed. And if it is not evident in the control that we will not know in the National Assembly what is going on, in some cases the matter will be able to be carried out peacefully and in other cases it will be sanctioned in the most horrifying way. Then one wonders what corruption is and what is not corruption. I don't know. I just got a message. I don't know if it's corruption or not. The options are with provansal herbs and spicy with pepperoni, both in olive oil, €15 per kilogram." Now I don't know whether to report what I got or not to report, because now I don't know if the Commission doesn't like the pro-Vanal herbs or if it's 15 euros enough that it doesn't have to report. What if I take more pounds, say? What if they say, "I'll give you three more kilos to top"? Will I then take the cheese to the anti-corruption commission? Or what the hell I'm gonna do. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Where? Do you want me to report it to you on a form? Yeah, thanks. Then the extra boxes should be added for goat cheese, soft goat cheese, sheep cheese, and more. The amendment makes sense. The amendment introduces surveillance. I fear that this control will not be or that control will be selective and that action will be selective. What's happening right now is that action is selective. And it's happened before, or it wouldn't be a backlog. How much was said? There were about a thousand 400 cases in the drawer when the new commission was taken over. Who says there won't be another 2,000 things down there? And once you look at what things are going to come up, some strange names will come up, I'd say, repeating. This must be prevented, so we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr Rožej has the floor to prepare Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. I have listened with interest to the discussion by my colleague Jelinčič on the coalition agreement and governance and after it I am also more clear why the Slovenian National Party has never been a party to the coalition or has not participated in the government, why no Prime Minister has felt it appropriate to listen to such an explanation of cooperation as has just been given. But when we talk about this amendment, I would like to remind you if you ask the public who the most corrupt is – we are the officials. We are the messengers who are the most corrupt. Therefore, it is also likely that the logical expectation of the public that the anti-corruption Commission will deal with us, our property situation, our actions, our votes, logically. What does this amendment want? And this amendment wants us, who will be most controlled, to supervise our overseers, because of course this thing should be clean, because our overseers deserve this control, at least as much as we deserve theirs, or what? It's probably not like that if you ask common sense. It has been said in defense of this amendment that a handful of doubts is always needed everywhere so that things are not entirely self-evident. I think this amendment, this speck of doubt is extrapolating. Where? This is where the usual political debate is today. In the direction of conspiracy theory, that's how far this doubt goes. He doubts so far that no work of the Commission to prevent corruption is likely to be incorruptible. Who's gonna control all this? Will this be any commission like the one we've had so far? For example, the current President of the National Assembly, who oversees the Commission's work to prevent corruption, will again be a colleague of Marinic, who is also known for his integrity to the general public. Ask the public if they agree. Perhaps my forerunner, including a member of this commission, will also look under his fingertips at his overseers who will look under his fingertips. That's probably how we don't get rid of corruption. Even less so, we will get rid of the opinion that the public has on our work. And if it is necessary to report so often, and this is already about every little thing, in short, even every application, it is clear what such data could be used for in the National Assembly. They'd be misused for political accounting. What is the presumption of innocence that everyone is innocent until proven guilty is completely superfluous here? That's not how it's gonna be here. Once mentioned in the Commission's report to prevent corruption, it will be loaded and healthy. The question is, who in the 90 will be able to avoid it? Ask the Commission to prevent corruption, what applications are they getting from the field, and how much more is suspected of this or that, for example, before the local elections. And how justified these cases are. Wait a minute. But once you're in the grip and the Commission's mill to prevent corruption, your name is very well drawn here and there, and you're disgusted and become essentially such a false complaint – because the false application to the Commission to prevent corruption, for example, is not criminal, false reporting to law enforcement authorities is – these things are getting abused and used for something else that is completely different than they should be. I will hardly support this amendment, because I think it is more of a desire for political control of the independent part of the commission, a desire for a new material that could serve as a discreditation, a new material that could contribute to the theories of the conspiracy, were these now established or not, because suspicion is important in the case law? That it's a reasonable suspicion. In many cases, applications are not based on reasonable suspicion. In short, I doubt that we will be able to lead things better in a way that will bring us back to the situation before today, but that we will be able to do better than the legislation currently in force. We have had a decade and more of a national assembly commission dealing with this. Did she ever find anything? She didn't find anything. Has she helped in the fight against corruption? She didn't do anything. As long as we have an independent commission, these things are better. Now that we've given her some more powers, she's no longer a "nezzobi tiger", but she has some real powers and let's please let her work. Let's let her do her work. We recognize, of course, also the proponents and signatories of the law, that this law was not ideal, that it should be improved. In its work, the Commission faces some of the problems that still need to be drank, some of the procedures still to be carried out, but the vehementness that is now required to look into its work would probably need to be checked with the information officer, but, of course, the proposer of such an amendment, the Slovenian Democratic Party, this feeling, what privacy is and why it is important, does not. We've seen this before in another bill. Of course, as I have said in this House, privacy is necessary because it is a prerequisite for autonomy, so that we can decide freely, etc. In short, I believe that this amendment is rather than a desire for any control, a desire for material that will allow for further witch hunt.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I join those who realize that without the supervision of supervisors there is no long-term good and quality work. Of course, those who try to avoid such control use all possible inducements. Mr Rozjej has put a whole bunch of pushups on our account and at the same time says that we Members are the most corrupt in the public. I'm a 15-year-old Member, and at least no one's been able to tell me that because I know they can't. And that's why your colleague Slapnik invented a slanderous pursuit with the help of local liars to turn responsibility into fear 20 years ago. That's what you are. You use slanders, and in this way you also try to prevent them from getting a good law, good solutions that would enable the Commission without this help will not work well for the long-term commission. [[...]] And also saying that personal data will be misused — come on, come on. See, now in the last, in some specific criminal investigations – we read all the official records in the newspaper. Where did that come from? What did this come from the Members? I'm not saying, but there's something out there that doesn't work. And it discredits criminals in this way. In every way, you try to mine every matter that is supposed to work well in the interest of preventing corruption. And I don't know, it was said earlier that the Constitutional Court would prevent this. The dictatorship here is precisely such that this Commission may refuse to transmit this information if it considers that something would happen and that exactly the same doctrine is, as I recall, in the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, where intelligence services can also refuse to explain in writing. For several years it has been the same diction and these are good solutions that you defend in every possible way and in every way possible, and you refuse, but the purpose is clear, absolutely clear – how to protect those who are already plunged into corruption by government officials at this time and, of course, because there is a period before the elections, it is necessary to prevent in every way possible, because you realize that you cannot survive in elections with the help of such officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Rozej, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Now I am not going to deal with my colleague Jerovska and his local health, he will explain this to his constituents, because they will have to, because they will ask him. What, though, I do not think that my implementation has been properly taken, but the following is OK if the Commission needs control – but people of God, are you sure that it needs the supervision of the National Assembly, that is, the body that will supervise its work to the greatest extent? [[...]] Are we really the ones who will oversee her work? Of course, the Commission deserves all the support of the public and the public is the one who will best analyse its work and, of course, ours. Tork's vote on the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions has clearly shown that the public's influence has great weight, including in our decisions. If supported by the Commission's expert opinion on anti-corruption, it is even better. We, in short, argue that we are not a good supervisor to the anti-corruption Commission if we already believe that this commission really needs a supervisor. Now who is the one who pours sand into the wheel of the anti-corruption commission – the one who claims he does not need a supervisor, or the one who would like to load a millstone for a supervisor called the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? And if what Comrade Jerovšek said was already in force, that there was one set of corruption in coalition lines, which must now be prevented by rejecting this amendment if the National Assembly had the power to oversee the work of the Commission to prevent corruption, who has the current majority in the National Assembly? [[...]] That coalition. What would you likely do in such a supervisory body, a competent body? That's what I'd do. [[...]] In short, why would I reject this amendment if I really wanted to hide any corruption? I want to give the Commission to prevent the corruption of the free hand and to work as best as possible and I am sure that its results will be of great satisfaction to the public, but not to many people here between us, but this is no longer my problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u224	Look, I think it's time to remind myself once again that the Commission itself does not object to a greater degree of cooperation with the National Assembly, but opposes the current ruling coalition in a way that is sometimes very insulting, as my predecessor has just proved. He also spoke of conspiracy theories. You don't have to have any conspiracy theories, nobody's gonna talk about it with us. It's enough to watch the action! Take just one example: in the previous term, Mr Milan M. Cwickl, SD Member, allowed himself to have used someone on a commission as a witness as a credible authority who was the head of a competing firm who challenged and is now also suing one of the public procurements of the previous government. And it's been used as if I don't know what kind of chronic argument and it's being dragged across many institutions today. After what I read in the European acts, such action has all the indications of corruption, and for this its conduct, which, therefore, according to European standards, has all the indications of corruption, at least as I understand it, has been rewarded with a post of office somewhere in the European Union. And when we point out that now the European Union, specifically the President of the European Parliament, warns that it will take Slovenia under scrutiny, how it acts in the exposed cases of corruption by those officials sent there by the current ruling parties – or officials from Slovenia, because unfortunately the stain falls on everything because of your actions – you are also pretending and refusing to seek here some consensus that would certainly be useful because it would send a clear signal to Europe that you are serious about the persecution of corruption. And there's something else going on all the time: proposing. If someone has a motion, it does not interfere with the autonomy of someone else, it is essential that they cannot and must not order him. The proposal merely means that the other person is to be defined by this proposal, accepted or reasonedly rejected. This has nothing to do with autonomy. Therefore, the proposal by the National Assembly, where both the position and the opposition are or are represented by all relevant political structures, all political parties, all political forces, substantially more democratic and transparent than, say, the proposal by the President of the State, which you are forcing in this mandate by the ruling coalition, because he is also exactly the same policy after the constitution, equally committed to all voters and voters as any Member of the National Assembly; of course, he has his beliefs, his values, his political ideals and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is thus very clear to resist this. Indeed, it is more than obvious that you are afraid of what might be revealed if the actual Commission could fully carry out its work and have productive cooperation between the National Assembly and the Commission to prevent corruption, of course everyone within the limits of its competence. You're scared to death, and you know why you're scared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, Madam Secretary Terzan. Get ready, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u226	In view of the fact that it has repeatedly mentioned the position of the Commission, which is not present at the hearing stage, I would like to point out that the government has taken a position on this amendment by the Commission in order to prevent corruption. In order to be credible, I will also read part of it. In its position on the amendment, the Commission states: "The reasons given by the amendment's proposer do not negate in any way what is otherwise provided by the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act in accordance with the Convention's standards on the existence, position and competence of the Commission. Moreover, the amendment's proposal by interfering with the most sensitive part of the Convention's standards seeks to take what the legislator has justifiably recognised before a bad year as important and in accordance with the Convention's standards necessary for such an arrangement as provided for by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u228	Well, buddy Grimes, did you hear? It will be difficult for you to convince me that I am hiding anything and that I am afraid of anything if I want the Commission to prevent corruption to operate without the control of the National Assembly, to get involved in its work. What has practice brought us so far? The state council's committees, what did they bring us? What did the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, under the law on the prevention of corruption, your client colleague, Mr. Marinič, do to ensure that there would be less corruption in Slovenia and that there would be more integrity, that people would be honest to go to exams when they are called — not send someone else — to pay their bills? What did he do?Oh, my God! He's done one thing! And a lot less, and people know exactly what he did. Who's the one who doesn't have a face now, who's the one who doesn't want this commission to do well? I say that when we return, and even half a step back into the arrangement, as we knew it, that, in short, any part of the Commission's work to prevent corruption will depend on this National Assembly, we will take a step back. Even if she only has to write reports and send them to the National Assembly, it is a pity that she has to use them to deal with specific cases. Let him communicate his findings to the public and, of course, to the law enforcement authorities, when he sees it so appropriate, and we are better off not to engage in our own corruption, those who are responsible for it, because I have already explained to you that this is a vicious circle. As we supervise our overseers, it really doesn't fit anywhere. All right, co-operation with the National Assembly, great. What is our experience so far in this area of how you have worked with the previous President of the Commission to prevent corruption – or good, bad, desperate, you wanted to stop it, exactly that way. That was the last one. Who's the one who's afraid of corruption, who's the one who's afraid of a black man? Not me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, you have a short period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u230	Dear fellow, you have unwittingly reaffirmed the old rule: in every democracy, democracy is measured by who and how effectively it controls supervisors. And that question is open today, perhaps more than ever. But it's about persecuting corruption, which you're obviously more afraid of than I am. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u232	It would be good to hear how political theory is how effectively supervisors are monitored, a criterion for democracy. Here I believe that we have come back to some ideological, conceptual disagreements that we see things completely differently here. You will once again talk a lot about democracy from the point of view of the referendum regime and the free will of citizens, and secondly, it is the supervision of supervisors that is supposed to justify this democracy. I am grateful for this final debate because I conclude that this is what is most important to you – the supervision of supervisors and, in short, absolute control. Absolute control is not something that would promote democracy, but totalitarianism and thank you very much for showing your true face.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr Saiovic has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u234	As we conclude the debate, it is not a matter and is not a problem in cooperation between the National Assembly and the Anti-Corruption Commission. I think that this cooperation is a good thing, and we also bear witness that, on her initiative, we are amending legislation to her conclusions. At this point, however, we are at odds in this respect, and undoubtedly, according to the situation in Slovenian politics and in the National Assembly, anonymous applications without signatures will be used and abused in this round hall for mutual political accounting and this is all it is. For the amendment, I will say once again to the conclusion, certainly disproportionately interferes with the Commission's guaranteed functional autonomy in the handling and control of assets and does not hide itself, as I have said, in the area of important issues of the protection of private data and of the personal data of the debtors, and this is the case. There has also been much debate as to how these officials we send abroad have been regulated. As far as the European Members are concerned, there is no problem here and, of course, there is still some way under our control. However, as for officials who have been sent by other institutions and bodies with the consent or recommendation of our Government, they are, of course, controlled by authorities abroad who have been sent there and we believe that these matters are satisfactory and properly regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u235	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u236	I just suggest that at the next College of the National Assembly you explore the possibility of ordering a study, how many times have respected colleagues from LDS in the past and past mandates referred to anonymities in the same National Assembly, and the various newspaper articles that have begun, "from well-informed circles", without indicating the actual source. Then, in order to refresh your memory, your esteemed colleague from LDS, we will have this in real light, as you just said.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u237	This was not a procedural proposal that would go to the vote. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on Article 2 and move on to Article 3 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I'll follow the Rules of Procedure, and if we're talking about articles, we're talking about articles. Before I speak about the amendment to Article 3, however, I strongly protest in my name and on behalf of the Group of Members and condemn colleges, if you wish, or the leadership of the National Assembly because it strictly violated Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. I have pointed out at the College that this law does not meet one condition for law after a reduced procedure. Read it! The law of five hours of hot debate is not the law for reduced proceedings and none of these articles fulfils. This is blackmail and this is a violation, a major violation of the Rules of Procedure and of the leadership of this National Assembly. Article 3, I go to him from small to large; article 3 speaks of the powers of the Commission in the suspicion of corruption or other infringements, so that those watching us will know what it is. He says: "The Commission may, on its own initiative, on the basis of the application of a legal or natural person..." and continues: "...or, on request referred to in the second paragraph of this Article, establish a procedure for suspected corruption, infringements of rules, conflicts of interest, restrictions on business, lobbying, assessment and elimination of systemic corruption, infringements of ethics, integrity of the public sector." He's talking about things that aren't defined for the first time. Secondly, tell me and I will proceed with the amendment that binds to the second paragraph. [[...]] In the second paragraph, however, there are elite groups of people, because it says above: "Legal and natural persons may inform or warn the Commission." Looks like we have the elite groups in the second paragraph. Well, in this elite group were initially the President of the Republic who can, of course, inform the Commission, the National Assembly, the State Council, at least 10 members of the National Assembly, the Government, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the State Audit Commission, the Information Officer, the Bank of Slovenia and other independent state and so on. I'm ashamed to make such laws in this National Assembly. What's listed here is a joke! Fraud — listing people, elite groups — but worst of all — is what we absolutely reject, but this is an amendment that is still being removed from such an elite group. So this elite group obviously does not belong to the President of the Republic and is expelled. That's smart. Although this elite group is composed of the National Assembly, the Council of State or at least 10 Members does not. That's a very smart move. Why? If we're going to be an informer and an informer, which we are under this law, the National Assembly will have to decide whether or not to report this report to the X-person, who is a coalition. And since there are fewer people on this opposition side and it will be decided, of course, the coalition will say, "no, but people X are not allowed to report." When this site reports the opposition's Y-person, the story will be the same. The National Assembly will have to decide. And since there's more of them here, it's going to be, "Yeah, and this person Y, we're going to report to the commission." That's it. What is different from the State Council and cannot participate? Why can't 10 Members? In fact, the first paragraph is clear — legal and natural persons. We're all natural persons. In short, nonsense over stupidity, I'm already a member, especially the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly reminded of what is happening with this law, in the Middle Ages, in the time of the Inquisition, when women who have not received enough attention from men have been accused by those women whom men have been attentive to being witches, even if they were not. Unfortunately, life these days, here in this country resembles the 1930s, 20th century, 1940 to 1945, and most of all in 1945, even in Stalin's Russia. With this law, it seems that we are all thieves, and with this law we are searching for informants and giving the opportunity to sue each other, to lie about each other, and to invent what he wants, because there is no definition of all eight possible convictions. In order to prove it in plastic: From tomorrow on, I can personally quietly inform every Member, who is also the mayor, of lobbying. Because the mayor will say that he will confirm the bill proposed by the coalition if it is accepted by his amendment because this amendment says that the road will cross his congregation. It's pure lobbying. It's pure lobbying. He'll promise to adopt this law if the road goes. Or blackmail, if he says, "I'll go against the law if the road doesn't cross my congregation." Here, now we have this marriage. If my son, or I name his son, the entrepreneur, and he comes to the National Assembly for a visit to his father, his father will have to write a report that his son the entrepreneur visited him. That's what this law says if you read it. If my wife is the headmistress and she comes to see me, I'm gonna have to make a record that she's here, that no one will think she's coming to lobby because she's the hospital director. Where do we get to, where do we get to? We're all going to be quiet in this National Assembly. We're not going to be meeting with voters anymore. We won't be able to talk to anyone again. That's terrible. It's terrible what's going on here. And now, in this article, and with the amendment, we are working especially elitely, forming an elite that can work with the Commission, such as the National Assembly – yes, ten Members, nothing more, even though the National Assembly, the State Council, which somehow also co-forms our lives, is common in this country, not. Why not? Why not the President of the Republic if we're already quoting them? Some banks are listed, some official councils are listed as allowed. What's that? Do we even know in this National Assembly what else we are doing? What are we still doing? In the Slovenian National Party, none of these amendments, which form elite groups and create the possibility of innuendo and, of course, of ingenuity, that anyone can invent through anyone, whatever I want in the police state will not live. [[...]] I'm not scared anymore, but I'm very ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr Barovic, just this comment: you have really mentioned, you have criticised the procedure, that it is shortened, under such a difficult law, but I must warn you because of the magnetogram that the procedure is not decided by the President of the National Assembly, not by the leadership, but by the leaders of the sent groups, simply by a simple majority in the vote. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and the amendment to this Article? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 3. We are moving on to Article 5 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can't see my hand. Then I conclude the debate on Article 5. We are moving on to Article 12 and to the debate on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Mr. Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u240	There was a lot of talk before the second article, but I say again, I will follow this order. I too am joining the words spoken by Mr Vinko Gorenak. If anyone has a view or opportunity to transmit any or any paper, a document of the European Union, any of the European institutions or any sub-law or legal act of the State of the Republic of Slovenia which prohibits, if we are already being monitored, the control of all those whom this country, this Republic, this Government and this Parliament have been sent abroad, this moment, if I see this paper, I apologize, because I will now say that, however, the greatest absurdity is, of course, if this amendment is to be rejected, then I can indeed say that we are completely at the time of the Inquisition. Only on this side do we have to find the one who will be the Archbishop, the Bishop or anything else, but the rabbis are enough already. What difference does it make between me and Mr. Squeak, I'll say, what, in what? Except in wages, let's just leave it alone. I'm not unsatisfying about what he's supposed to have! He's not responsible, but I'm responsible. What's the difference? It's as if now that I'm a Member, I've moved to Italy, and I'd be doing the loony bins here, and then I'd be coming home to Italy. There's nothing you can do to me. Nothing. It's not right. Except, I'm saying, give us the papers, give us proof that any act, the paper that forbids that – if we're talking about control, I don't know what else is going on – those people that this country sent out. If he is not, then the proof of the Inquisition law will be that you will reject the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Then we can really ask ourselves where we live.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 15? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to Article 29 and to the debate on the amendment to this article proposed by SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to Article 33 and two amendments to this Article, one proposed by the SDS Group and the other proposed by the SD Group, and the other proposed by the SD and, indeed, DeSUS and LDS. We're discussing both. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to Article 34 and the amendment to this article proposed by SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] This concludes the debate on all the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. POINT — PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE POLICE LAW, OTHER DEFINITIONS The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The Law’s Proposal Is at its 32nd Session, 22. 4. 2011, treated the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] None of the others have been reported, so I am concluding the presentation of the views of the groups. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the return of moisture to the public telecommunications network, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give my word to a representative of the government who isn't. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bogdan Čepič. Please, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 27th meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for a review and adoption of the law submitted by a reduced procedure. However, the reduced procedure was confirmed at the meeting of the College of the National Assembly on 8. 4. 2011. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments on the provisions of Article 3 and 4 of the draft law which the Committee, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, took into account in the two amendments adopted by the Committee. None of the qualified applicants tabled amendments to the proposed law within the time limit. In its opening statement, the representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the text was transmitted in a wide range of corrective measures on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ audit report with a view to regulating the relationship between SOD and the Republic of Slovenia in the implementation of the return to the public telecommunications network where the SOD makes the return on behalf and on behalf of the State. Thus, it is firstly specified that SOD will carry out the planned operations on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and that the funds for reimbursements are provided in the State budget. On the other hand, the transitional provisions govern the status quo at the cross-border date 31. 12. 2010 and establishes or lays down the conditions under which mutual legal obligations and claims are to be repaid. On this basis, the Republic of Slovenia will take back ownership of those shares that were initially transferred to the SOD — Telekom’s shares — and, on the other hand, will pay in individual instalments of the claim held by the Court of Justice to the State, taking into account that the obligation so far has been paid from its own resources. In the multilateral debate, individual opinions or concerns were expressed by the discussers to the text under consideration. In particular, it is the view of the representative of the proposer to attach to the position on the non-necessity of the proposed text, but it is worth stressing that the agent of his resources does not spend on the payment of his obligations which he has to pay as an agent, but is obliged to pay those who are represented, and this is the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, the decision in the current Law on return on investments in the telecommunications network is unconstitutional and the Court of Auditors' notice on the submission of an amendment of the text on the spot and is justified. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the amendment to Articles 3 and 4a and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act, in which both amendments are incorporated, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and you have received a supplementary draft of the Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u243	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u244	Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! Amendments to the law provide for a source of funding for the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, providing the necessary resources in the state budget. The principles of the amendments are based on the Court of Auditors’ main comment, which stated that the transfer of Telekom’s shares was not necessary, but at the same time a reminder that the return of the investments from the SOD’s own resources threatens the payment of the beneficiaries under the rules governing denationalisation. The main solution to the amendment of the law provided that the Republic of Slovenia and SOD, through a specific contract, should regulate the repayments made by SOD to beneficiaries under this Act since 2007 and the transfer of 653.548 shares by Telekom d. d. to the State acquired by SOD for the implementation of this Act. In the Audit Report on the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009, the Court of Auditors notes that the Republic of Slovenia can provide additional financial or real property to meet its obligations under law only after it has proved irrefutable that the assets from the sale of the shares of Telekom d.d. are not sufficient to fulfil all obligations under the law. On the basis of the foregoing, the Court of Auditors finds that the contract regulating the payment of public telecommunications investments obligations was concluded in contravention of the provisions of the law. According to the law in force, funds for the implementation of the law are provided from the 10% share of Telekom d. d., which was transferred free of charge by the Republic of Slovenia with a special contract to SOD. If that source of funding is not sufficient to repay and cover the related costs, the resource shall be provided additionally with the specific financial or real property transferred by the Republic of Slovenia to SOD by a special contract. The law thus provides that until Telekom d.d.’s 10 % share is sold, it provides liquidity for the payment of SOD’s investments from its own resources. In view of the fact that the obligation to pay obligations under the law of the Republic of Slovenia, which should show in its business books all business events relating to the implementation of the law, it is necessary to amend the source of the return on investments in the public telecommunications network so that the only source of payment of the obligation will be the resources from the State budget. The proposed amendment will no longer require a provision on unused funds. As soon as those changes have been implemented, the special contract will also need to regulate the relationship between the SOD and the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the funds already paid or borrowed by SOD from its own resources since 2007, when the first return on investments was granted. The contract will also have to regulate the way and timing of the contribution of Telekom d. d. shares transferred by the Republic of Slovenia to SOD for the implementation of the law back to the Republic of Slovenia. Since the Republic of Slovenia, under the Act on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Company, d.d., on credits for the financing of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, d.d., indirectly guarantees for the liabilities of SOD in 2009, the possible deficit to cover the liabilities of SOD will cover at the end of the life-cycle of the guarantee if its assets are not sufficient to cover all the liabilities of the company. The Social Democrats Group will support the law as it clears all relations between the country and the Slovenian Compensation Society for the area of return on investments in telecommunications networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u246	All in attendance, all in attendance! We will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group because it is not necessary. Not only because it does not solve anything, but also because, in a formal sense, it additionally burdens public finances and increases the debt of the state budget. Novela is expected to follow the Court of Auditors' opinion. If we leave aside the duality of the applicant who respects the decisions of the Court of Auditors where it is appropriate but does not, it is nevertheless necessary to say that the Court of Auditors in the audit report has found, inter alia, that the Republic of Slovenia can provide additional financial or real assets to meet the obligations under the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network only after it has proved indisputably that the assets of the sale of Telekom’s shares are not sufficient to fulfil all the obligations under this law. Telekom’s shares are estimated to be sufficient to pay all its obligations and thus no additional burden on public finances or the state budget. Thus, the Court of Auditors has in some way taken the view that it is precisely what we are defending ourselves, that the return on investments in the public telecommunications network is drawn from where these investments were also made and where Telekom’s assets increased due to these investments. Therefore, the funds should be recovered from this asset, not from public finances, from the state budget, by increasing the debt of the state budget, and to the detriment of other needs. For this reason, this change is not necessary and, on a substantive basis, it does not regulate anything. Instead of seeking to relieve public finances, the Government is further burdening them in all areas, not only on this. Let us remember just a few cases that we have witnessed in the last two years. One of the most important things is, for example, the provision of funds for the stability of the pension fund. In recent years, KAD has provided funds for the stability of the pension fund amounting to EUR 100 million per year. This year alone, €50 million per year. The remainder is expected to be provided by the State budget. Why? Is it not opportunistic that the funds for the stability of the pension fund are provided to the fullest extent from those sources where the management of the state property and the effects of this management are concerned, since all these assets have been created primarily by those who are now in retirement? And it is right that the effects of this property are coming back to them, not that they are afraid that the money will run out because the needs of the state budget are increasing, even because they are burdened with unnecessary expenditure in the way that we are witnessing to them in the event of the amendment of this law. Let's move on. Slovenian railways will be rehabilitated from the state budget. Interesting. Why? Or because this government has been unable to negotiate with a strategic partner who has pioneered by losing all credibility on the one hand and on the other hand dissuading all potential investors who would be prepared without burdening public funds and increasing public debt to contribute to the modernisation of this system? Why should the state budget and public finances be further burdened where it is not necessary and, because of these unwise decisions, the pensioners should be intimidated so that there is no money for their pensions? Let's move on. The rehabilitation of the largest state bank from taxpayers’ pockets – that is, directly from the pockets of those who have the least, pensioners with the lowest pensions. Remember, this year, 250 million euro of state money, the tax money for the rehabilitation of a system in which huge depths, missed investments and items have been made, through which in the past years, a wide variety of typos have grown heavily at the expense of those who are threatened with losing their pensions. And this novel of law that we have on the table today is a small part of this problem. If we look at the volume of funds, it's relatively small. Most of them have already been paid, and some 4 million euros remain to be recovered, and regardless of this, on a proposal from the Government, you have already accepted guarantees from the Slovenian Compensation Society for this purpose and for the payment of these investments, once at the request of the Government, EUR 180 million, twice the amount of EUR 300 million. And now, even though this has been guaranteed, this SOD is still expected to assume these obligations in the state budget. Three times, five times or a hundred times wrong, if you want, this is not how it works, so it does not manage public property and public finances. Investments should be paid where they were made. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, not only will we not support this law, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u248	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The proposed amendment to the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is necessary in order to remedy or eliminate irregularities arising from the transfer of 653.548 shares of Telekom in 2007 to the SOD with a view to providing assets for payment of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to return to the public telecommunications network or which have been disclosed in the 2009 Court of Auditors audit report relating to the review of the profitability of the Slovenian compensation company. In its audit, the Court of Auditors found that the transfer of those shares to the SOD was not necessary and that the obligation to return investments to the public telecommunications network referred to in the SOD jeopardised the implementation of the basic tasks of the Slovenian compensation company in the field of denationalisation obligations for which that company was established. Since the legal obligation to return investments to the public telecommunications network is the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia and not the SOD, it is and will also perform this task as an agent in the name and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment of the law provides financial resources for the payment of EUR 158 million of liabilities settled by the SOD on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia to investors in the public telecommunications network for up to 30 years. 9. 2010 and an additional circus of €4.2 million, to the extent that the obligations still open under this law are assessed. The necessary financial resources, together with the corresponding interest, will be reimbursed by the State budget to the Slovenian Compensation Debt in 10 semi-annual instalments, between 2012 and 2016, and the transferred shares of Telekom will be reimbursed by the SOD to the Republic of Slovenia. The mutual relations referred to in this Title, including the way in which guarantees are secured for leased loans to the SODs through which the SOD has paid those liabilities, shall be settled by the SOD and the Republic of Slovenia by a special contract no later than 60 days after the application of this Act. In our parliamentary group, we will present a law, including additions adopted on the home body, which improve the text submitted in accordance with the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, although we are aware that it is an additional burden on the state budget, but it is also a matter of cleaning up the work of public finances or of state obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on return of investments to the public telecommunications network. The proposal for a law is a logical consequence of taking into account the Court of Auditors’ opinion, which carried out a review last year of the prudential nature of the Slovenian Compensation Society’s business in the settlement of its obligations from 2004 to 2007 and found certain irregularities in the performance of the tasks. In the DeSUS Group, we stand firm on the principle that the opinions, conclusions and recommendations of this independent body, i.e. the Court of Auditors, must be consistently respected, as this is dictated not only by the legal and moral culture but also by the political culture. Unfortunately, there has been more and more and more of this has been the case. This proposal therefore takes into account the findings of that body. In the view of the DeSUS Group, the proposal adequately addresses internal inconsistencies relating to the relationship between the SOD company which makes the return to the telecommunications network on behalf of and on behalf of the State and the State itself of the Republic of Slovenia. The Court of Auditors found that the transfer of Telekom’s shares to SOD’s ownership was not necessary, as this Act is being implemented for the operation of SOD on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the State can provide additional financial and real assets to meet the SOD's obligations only after it has indisputably proved that the assets from the sale of Telekom's shares are not sufficient to meet all the obligations. By means of an amendment, the source of funding for the return on public telecommunications is thus identified, namely, the necessary funds are provided in the State budget. However, the main solution concerns the provision that the State and SOD, through a specific contract, regulate the reimbursement of the resources paid by SOD to beneficiaries under this Act since 2007, and the transfer of the shares of Telekom acquired by SOD for the implementation of this law. The proposed novel does not, therefore, affect the concept of the basic law itself, but gives solutions that are substantively identical to those already confirmed by the law on compensation, such as victims of war and post-war violence. It is therefore a matter of taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors and, from this point of view, an opinion will be delivered to the DeSUS Group on the basis of which we will confirm the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law amends the source of funding for the return on investments in the telecommunications network by providing funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia instead of the 10 % share of Telekom d. d., which was transferred free of charge to the Slovenian Compensation Society. The assessment of the financial implications of the budget law regarding outstanding liabilities to beneficiaries indicates only the assumption of the SOD, and although the applicant could obtain more accurate estimates through the State defence, which participates in settlement procedures. A time limit has been set for the submission of applications so that, logically, all applications must be known and the basis for determining the amount of the refund is also laid down, leading by mathematical logic to precise data. This is an exclusion from the indications of the Legal and Legislative Service. In its opening statement on the home working body, the representative of the law-maker stressed that the Court of Auditors, following an audit of the profitability of the Slovenian Compensation Society from 2004 to 2007, found certain irregularities in the performance of the tasks performed by SOD on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. So, in this case, it is corrective measures that have led the Court of Auditors to even dismiss the Minister of Finance. Although this issue could be accepted if my colleagues from other parties did not warn me that, on the basis of — and this is the case now, the Court of Auditors’ findings, the Republic of Slovenia would provide additional financial or real assets to fulfil its obligations under the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network only after it has proved indisputably that the assets from the sale of Telekom’s shares are not sufficient to meet all the obligations. And in the final stage, the Republic of Slovenia is the one that guarantees such obligations. And we have witnessed again, as a number of times, various interpretations of the government, the Court of Auditors. Maybe there's something else in the background. Or maybe it's in the background of the rescue of Telekom, who's obviously becoming a hit-and-run investment, with an incompetent government that's combining itself. The fact is that by adopting this novel all the obligation to pay the beneficiaries goes to the budget. Who's going to be in extra debt? State? And if it's even worse, we don't know how much. In the Slovenian National Party, respected colleagues and colleagues, we do not believe that this is a purchase of a cat in a jacket. That is why we can start to think about the financial capitulation of this country. Therefore, we cannot and cannot adopt this law in the Slovenian National Party with all due caution, with all that has already been stated. The Slovenian national party will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u253	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the views of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, kind greeting to the secretary! Of course, we say many times in life that if there is no order in money, then it is nowhere, and that is why in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are happy that this unresolved – years and years – relationship between the SOD, the country and Telekom is finally settled and placed on solid, healthy and legal foundations. The amendment of the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is already the third law in a series of amendments to laws that follow the requirements of the Court of Auditors relating to the clarification of relations between the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Republic of Slovenia. It is historically well known that the SOD has in several cases acted as an agent who, on behalf of and for an account, carried out individual statutory transactions, and the relations so far, according to the Court of Auditors, have not been properly regulated. However, this is a major problem because obligations have not been properly recorded, which in terms of public finances constitutes an unacceptable error or a problem. From the point of view of the Court of Auditors, as in previous cases, the most problematic situation is the obligations and claims incurred by the Court of Auditors and the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the law provides that the funds for reimbursement shall be provided in the budget, whereas the situation at 31 shall be determined in return. 12. 2010 from the point of view of claims. In order to clarify the relationship, it is stipulated that the Republic of Slovenia will take back ownership of Telekom, while the Republic of Slovenia has to pay its financial obligations resulting from this to the SOD, which has in the past paid back from its own resources for investing in telecommunications. The Act also provides for the determination of the actual situation of claims and liabilities between these two entities, since, for this purpose, Article 3 of the Act provides that the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Republic of Slovenia shall, on 31 December 2010, establish, by means of a minutes drawn up and signed, at the latest within 45 days of the entry into force of this Act, that they shall fix on the one hand the amount of funds paid for payment of obligations under law, on the other hand, the amount of funds received from dividends received from the shares of Telekom, on the other hand, the amount of funds received from the Republic of Slovenia for payment of obligations under the law, on the other hand, the amount of funds incurred by the Court in 2007 for payment of obligations under the law and which it has not yet been reimbursed. This will definitively clarify the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to SOD and provide for a contract between them to determine how these falling obligations will be settled, as well as other financial details. The opinion of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that the proposed law adequately solves the inherited problems that have arisen, so we will unanimously support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network is long by title, is relatively modest by number of articles, and therefore the reduced procedure is envisaged and in fact the adoption of this Act should be more or less routine if we are taking warnings or disclosures of the Court of Auditors sufficiently seriously and if we are to take them into account. What is somewhat unusual about this law is that we do not have that usual chapter on international comparisons, that is, how they solve such things elsewhere — because that is not possible. This is not possible for one very simple reason: when it was invested in this public telecommunications network, in Slovenia we once again demonstrated some special innovations that were not possible elsewhere, in the way that we built the public telecommunications, infrastructure network with private means. This needs to be mentioned primarily because it seems important to remember that something else was being built in a similar way. Let's remember, some of us know that investors had to invest money to build, say, a trafofposta and at the same time sign a contract that these trafposta will not be theirs when they're built, but will be owned by someone else. This was also a special innovation, which has to date not been compensated. But this telecommunications network was built, so the way was effective. He wanted to correct the law we are talking about, and he corrected it after being warned by the Court of Auditors. The audit just showed everything my colleagues presented before me. I would only point out that the Court of Auditors is therefore demanding action and that it is somehow illogically identified errors and irregularities simply to deny and not to submit to the requirement that errors be corrected. In fact, solutions are more or less part of the accounting, of course with great financial implications, and these solutions need to be implemented. As regards the consequences for the true debtor — for the Republic of Slovenia and not for the Slovenian Compensation Society — it is necessary to provide funds in the budget and reimburse them in half-yearly instalments in the coming years. In this way, we will ensure that the errors are corrected, that the financial and legal situation is correct, and if the construction and recovery of funds were, if they are a matter of the past, it is a matter of the future, how to provide these funds to the Slovenian Compensation Society, for all that it has had to support, and for all the costs it has incurred with operational implementation itself. But this is the price of this error, and because this mistake needs to be corrected, Members of the unrelated group will, of course, support this bill in solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the proposal for a law amending the law on the issue of liability for the payment of damages for forfeiture of property for the purpose of expropriation of the penalty for the confiscation of proceeds. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members! The amendments to the Act on the issue of liability for the payment of damages for seized property due to the abolition of the confiscation penalty are also prepared on the basis of a request from the Court of Auditors to carry out a review of the feasibility of the conduct of transactions carried out by SOD as an agent for a State. The Court of Auditors concluded that the existing legal acts do not provide for a sufficiently precise relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court of Auditors and that it should be clear from the rules that the Court of Auditors is operating on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia in the implementation of these acts. In the implementation of the law in question, SOD shall carry out, on behalf of and on behalf of the State, the tasks relating to the issue, service and payment of bonds and the payment of interest. In accordance with the reference of the Court of Auditors, we therefore propose to amend the law by clearly regulating the financing of tasks under the law for future obligations, providing for payment for transactions carried out by the Court of Auditors and determining the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to SOD back to back, i.e. for activities already carried out. The latter will be governed by a specific contract which will also determine the method and dynamics of payment. The outstanding liabilities will be settled from 2012 to 2016, and the interest rate of the six-month Euribor will provide the SOD with a realistic maintenance of the claim value. This is a relatively short law that follows the direction of the Court of Auditors; we have also obtained a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors on the proposed solutions in the drafting and harmonisation phase. It takes account of all of the above and, in particular, taking into account the purpose of the proposal for a government law, proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be approved both in the second and in the third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u259	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mag. Happy Zerjava. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 27th meeting on 5 May. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which formulated specific comments on Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the draft law. No amendments were tabled within the time limit laid down in the law. As additional material, the Committee received a proposal for an amendment to Article 3 of the Committee, which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of comments by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee did not discuss the proposed solutions and, on the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it drafted and adopted its amendment to Article 3. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The adopted amendment is included in an updated proposal for a law which forms an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u261	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Iztok Podkrižnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u262	President, thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Since this is a similar issue as we have dealt with in the previous law, in this case it is a matter of payment of obligations in relation to the obligations issued for the payment of compensation, for the property seized – even in this case, the Court of Auditors asks the Government to carry out or amend the legal solutions by making it clear that in this case SOD is acting on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. To that end, transitional and final provisions also provide for the regulation of the status quo in the previous law – a list of mutual obligations and claims and the conclusion of a contract establishing mutual rights and obligations. The principle of additions and amendments is based on the Court of Auditors’ main comment expressed in the audit report, namely that SOD carries out operations on behalf of and on behalf of the State. This explains the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the SOD, which were incontrovertible prior to the amendment of the law. This will establish a transparent and differentiated relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the SOD society back and forth. The bill has no financial implications for other public funds, so we support the proposal in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u264	Thank you again very much for your word. The proposed amendments to the Law on the issue of bonds for the payment of damages for seized property for the purpose of abolishing the penalty for confiscation of property are today another example of a law that could be called the cleaning of state cash registers or its drawers. As was the transfer of the obligation to invest in the public telecommunications network to the SOD, the transfer of the obligation to pay damages for the seized property — also to the SOD — was too reckless in the past not to say an irresponsible act which, on the one hand, threatened the basic tasks of the SOD, this was the reimbursement of denationalisation compensation and, on the other hand, the actual costs or state Treasury were misplaced. The bill provides for the remedy of the unacceptable situation identified and disclosed by the Court of Auditors in its report on the basis of the audit carried out. For the payment of interest-bearing coupons of beneficiaries – a total of one million four hundred and eighty thousand two hundred forty bonds from the two million euro bonds issued to pay the liability for the confiscated property – the SOD paid a good 56 million euros from its own resources by 30 September 2010. By 2015, when the last coupons of these bonds fall, some €36 million will have to be provided in the state budget. Liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from the State budget to the SUD for this type of agency transactions carried out by the SUD under the law on the issue of liability for the payment of the confiscated property shall be provided by the State in ten six-year instalments between 2012 and 2016. The mutual obligations will be settled between the Court and the State within 60 days of the entry into force of the law. Since the law fixes the unacceptable situation in the area of public finances or corrects the consequences of unimaginable decisions from the past and ensures the transparency of the state treasury, we will support the law in our parliamentary group, although it is a significant increase in the burden of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u266	Thanks again. The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the issue of bonds for the payment of damages for seized property due to the abolition of the penalty for confiscation of property is as follows. This is a law which is very identical, similar to the law or the debate at the previous point, namely, the basic law does not contain a provision on compensation for the abolition of the penalty for confiscation of property, but provides that the funds are to be provided from the assets of the SOD and that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide the SOD with additional resources if the means to cover the obligations under the denationalisation rules are not sufficient to pay compensation under this law. In implementing the basic law, SOD operates on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, as it performs only tasks relating to the issuance, service and payment of bonds and the payment of interest. It is therefore necessary to amend the law in the part relating to the provision of means for the settlement of obligations by replacing the assets of SOD with other resources. So again, from the resources of the state budget. The proposed amendments take into account the Court of Auditors’ findings as the assets of SOD will only be used for the implementation of legal obligations under the denationalisation rules where SOD operates on its own behalf and on its own account. In this regard, Members of the DeSUS will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you, Mr Vice President, once again for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! As a proposaler on the working body, the Government stressed that the main solutions to the proposed amendment of the law lay down the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to reverse the obligations laid down in the law and provide for payment for administrative and technical transactions carried out on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia by the Slovenian Compensation Society. The legislative and legal service of this Parliament – I always say, thank God that we have it – the government has a clear headless rush, among the lines of course, when it warns that individual legal provisions can only have a retroactive effect if the conditions required by the public benefit are cumulatively met and if this does not prejudice the rights acquired. The fulfilment of those conditions should be further substantiated and the relevant circumstances presented. The Government therefore cites the Court of Auditors’ request as a corrective measure. And we're wondering if that's true. It was understood in the public that it was a misrepresentation to establish a transparent and differentiated relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the SOD. We accept this, assuming that we resolve the legal issue of the application and adoption of retroactive rules. However, look at the fraction, with the implementation of the law there will be financial obligations, again, as in the previous law, for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia arising from amendments to the draft law. Obviously, this time we are saving the Slovenian Compensation Society, which is obviously incapable of doing or doing bad work, and again we will solve the problem, as well as many other problems, by reburdening the budget. You know very well that the Slovenian National Party publicly says that it is not exactly satisfied with the work of the Capital Investment Management Agency, but this time we are very much in agreement with it if it will also achieve its promised purpose, which is, as it was able to hear, again from the outside, from the media – that they will make it into a SOD order. We have been for some time now – we have also publicly warned in the Slovenian National Party – that para-state institutions are becoming cancers of the country's wounds, becoming a burden for them [[is not]] work, if we express ourselves kindly, of course, and this burden will be again, we will again bear taxpayers, which of course is not acceptable, nothing more. There have been too many excuses to the economic crisis, to the financial crisis, to any crisis already, and even if the Court of Auditors actually thinks that the budget can pass on all the errors of this country, even backwards – and if it so thinks, let it make it clear, and then we will call them to speak publicly to the taxpayers of this country – to defend their claims. As long as, according to the Slovenian National Party, everything is even more dense than Ljubljana, until then, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support such mixing, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! This is so in life – if you make a mistake, then of course it has to be fixed, edited and deleted to the greatest extent possible, and that is why in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will support this novel, because we have before us the so-called fourth amendment of the law that regulates the issue of inadequately regulated relations between the SOD and the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment also establishes that in legally designated cases, the SOD is an agent who, on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, makes individual payments. The same as before provides for clarification and regulation of the situation in question, a description of obligations and claims will be made and contracts will be concluded to settle the situation in return and to establish in advance the relationship, rights and obligations between each other. Since we believe that this is the right answer in the Liberal Democracy Club to address these accumulated and emerging problems, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u272	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The law had to be prepared by the Government at the request of the Court of Auditors. Clearly, these were errors in the settlement of liabilities or in the payment of bonds issued as compensation for seized property. There is no doubt that the State has an obligation under the law to settle for the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Since the Group of Non-Aligned Members respects the decisions of the Court of Auditors, this law, which means the elimination of irregularities in the past, even in return, will be supported. It's not proud, but it's right and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the law on the issue of liability for the confiscation of property are also prepared in accordance with the findings of the Court of Auditors’ audit, since the assets of SOD will only be used for the implementation of legal obligations under the denationalisation rules, since SOD operates on its own behalf and on its own account. The basic text of the law provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall issue bonds for the payment of damages in respect of seized property for the purpose of abolishing the penalty of confiscation of property, up to a maximum of EUR 20 billion or EUR 83.5 million for the purpose of covering the State's obligation under legal decisions to abolish the penalty of confiscation of property and to determine the amount of compensation for seized property. The Law on the issue of the liability for the payment of damages for seized property does not contain provisions on the resources for compensation for the cancellation of the penalty for the confiscation of property; it provides only that the funds are provided from the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Fund, now the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., where the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide additional resources to SOD if the funds to cover the obligations under the denationalisation rules are not sufficient to pay compensation under this Act. In view of the fact that the SOD operates on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia in the implementation of this Law, only tasks relating to the issuance, service and payment of bonds and the payment of interest are required to amend the law in the work relating to the provision of funds for the settlement of obligations, namely by replacing the assets of SOD with another source, i.e. by means of the State budget. The relationship between SOD and the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the funds already paid by SOD will also have to be regulated by a specific contract as soon as the above changes are in effect. [[bets]] from own resources, from 2001 onwards, when the first payments were made to the beneficiaries by law. As in 2009, SOD was not in a position to settle its legal obligations without any debt, since most of its assets, which were to serve the settlement of its obligations, constituted capital investments that were defined as strategic investments. Therefore, for liquidity purposes, SOD leased a loan of EUR 300 million with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia under the Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for liabilities from the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d. in the amount of EUR 300 million on leased loans and issued bonds to finance the Slovenian Compensation Company, d.d. in 2010. These funds were intended in accordance with the Guarantee Act to cover all the legal obligations of SOD and not just to cover the transferred obligations of the Republic of Slovenia transferred to SOD as an agent of state under the law. Since the Republic of Slovenia indirectly guarantees the liability of SOD under the guarantee law, the potential deficit to cover the liability of SOD will be covered at the end of its life good if its assets are not sufficient to cover all the obligations of the company. The proposed amendment of the law aims to implement the principle of business on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, as defined in the amendments to the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act. The main solutions provided for in the amendment of the law lay down the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in return, regulate the financing of the obligations set out in the law forward and provide for payments for administrative and technical transactions carried out by SOD on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. The Social Democrats Group will support the law as it clears all relations between the State and the Slovenian Compensation Society in the area of the law on the issue of bonds for the payment of damages for seized property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Period of the day, it's a proposal for a law amending the law on income in another defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly that it adopts a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Board, Bogdan Chapich, for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body at its 27th session 5. 5. 2011. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made nomotechnic comments to Article 2. The Committee has received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which sets out the reasons why the proposed solutions are not supported and considers the proposal to be contrary to the economic policy on business taxation and therefore unacceptable. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. As additional material, a proposal from the Slovenian People's Party's Group for amendments to Article 2 and a new Article 2a was forwarded to the Committee. Representatives of the proposers, representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance pointed out, in an additional explanation for the opinion of the Government, that the draft law interfered with the solutions that were in force in the new Income Act 2H in the field of agricultural and economic taxation in December 2010 and will be fully in force in 2013. It pointed out that the determination of taxation on the basis of a flat rate was appropriate for smaller taxpayers. She noted that some farms already run a certain type of bookkeeping. Regarding the effectiveness of the new way of taxation, she said that a working group on accounting standards for agricultural activities, consisting of representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Finance, had been established at the Slovenian Institute for Auditing and will present their proposals at a public presentation in early 2012. Finally, it stressed that the existing system of taxation of agricultural and forestry income is appropriate, as it shows the actual economic power of taxable persons engaged in agricultural and forestry activities, while offering the possibility of changing data in an administratively simple manner. Therefore, the Government does not support the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative drew attention to the link between the draft law and the Tax Procedure Act and added that the amendment to Article 2 should be nomo-technically aligned with the transitional provisions. Having regard to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee, prior to its consideration of the individual articles of the law submitted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, first discussed and decided on a proposal for a decision that the law submitted was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on this motion for a decision, the members of the committee who felt that the proposed law should be adopted, despite the Government's negative opinion, objected to the arguments why the Government opposed the proposed solutions. Among other things, it has been reiterated that the introduction of even simple bookkeeping is not an optimal solution and, above all, that clear taxation standards should first be laid down to take account of the specificity of agricultural and forestry activities. The representative of the finance ministry asked for a real calculation of the tax simulation of agricultural and forestry activities, which he felt would not yield positive financial results. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners of the law, Franz Bogovic, for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u278	Good afternoon, distinguished president, distinguished secretary of state, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act 2H, which in Article 4, sets a threshold for the mandatory determination of actual income and expenditure, or on the basis of actual revenues and standardised revenues, is recently adopted, provided that the total income of the members of the farm household from agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500. This means that, following a transitional period in 2013, farms whose income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500 will have to start accounting, mainly through accounting services. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states that about 3 000 100 farms are defined as professional or at least semi-professional farms. Therefore, it requires the same treatment as for smaller companies and espouses. We believe that this is a very flat-rate assessment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which assumes that all such farms also provide at least one regular job while not taking into account the specificity of the agricultural activity at any point. The data that today, on the basis of accounting, identifies income from agricultural activities only a few more than 130 farms, says in itself that in practice this is obviously not an optimal option, otherwise this figure would certainly be higher on a voluntary basis. On the other hand, certain agricultural accounting standards should first be adopted prior to the introduction of the mandatory agricultural bookkeeping since the existing accounting standards for enterprises and espas do not meet the real situation and needs in agriculture. The current law, according to the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, introduces a new and far-reaching financial obligation in the form of direct costs to cover accounting services. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not presented any estimates of the costs to be charged by accounting services for the future, but given the current prices of these services, we can estimate that such amounts will move at least EUR 1000 per farm annually, which means EUR 3 million in flows from the agricultural sector at the annual level. Given the total income of individual farms, such costs of accounting services far exceed a reasonable margin of acceptable cost burdens, especially if we now take into account the weak social situation of Slovenian agriculture. The consequences of the failure to adopt the proposed law will certainly be less interest in agricultural and forestry activities, resulting in a reduction in the volume of agricultural production in the country and a deterioration in the percentage of Slovenian food self-sustainment. At a time when agriculture is in the restructuring phase and the world economy is slowly starting from the grips of the economic and financial crisis, in our opinion we cannot afford such additional and strict administrative measures. The aim of the proposed law is, therefore, to decide for themselves how to determine the tax base, either by a flat-rate decision or by keeping books, and not to commit them to this mandatory bookkeeping, since this is largely linked to high additional costs. As a result, only the largest farms in Slovenia, whose complexity and scope of business already require professional management of their activities, will be served at the further service of professional accountants. The current law imposes entirely unnecessary additional financial and administrative burden on agriculture, so we have proposed this law to allow farmers to decide, by adopting a new law, how they will determine the tax base and how the latter is most favourable, regardless of the amount of their total income from agricultural or forestry activities. However, these attempts have also tried to make this threshold higher, as it is estimated that EUR 7 000 500 is the income from these taxes, that this is too low a rate, and that a truly large number of farms will be involved in this mandatory management of accounting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u280	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposed amendment to the Income Act means a step back from last year's established solution, which means support for the continuation of inadequate and unrealistic identification of income in agricultural activities, and therefore the Government cannot support the proposed solutions. It supports the proposal of the home labour body that the National Assembly should decide that the proposed content of the law is not suitable for further consideration. Allow me to briefly explain the Government's position. Last year's amendment to the Income Act brought about two major changes in the taxation of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. Both are moving towards a more realistic definition of the tax base of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. The first relates to the tax treatment of income from agricultural policy measures, commonly referred to as subsidies. However, a second amendment introduces the obligation to maintain accounting for larger farms. Both amendments are based on the basic principle of taxation, which provides that the tax obligation must be proportionate to economic power and on the principle of the legality of taxation based on the fair taxation of the income of natural persons, regardless of the activity they are engaged in. The purpose of both new solutions is therefore not to increase tax revenues but, above all, to increase the fairness of the system of taxation of income, which is also required by the taxpayers themselves. The transition to compulsory book-keeping also equates the situation of the undertakings engaged in agricultural and forestry activities with those of the debtors, and 70 thousand of them are engaged in other activities, and they must in fact keep books from the moment they start doing business, regardless of the extent to which they carry out their activities. For farms, the threshold is €7 000 500 of the farm's total income. In comparison, in Germany, this total income is EUR 5,000. However, in Slovenia this means that compulsory accounting will be required to run around 3 000 100 farms, which means only 5% of all farms that exercise the right to subsidies or only around 3% of farms whose agricultural activity is taxed on income. Again, if I make an international comparison – in Austria there are about 20% of farms that need to identify the tax base by keeping books. It should also be noted that, as a result of the transitional period, farms will be gradually included in the mandatory bookkeeping, initially only about a thousand farms. In addition, we must not forget that, like in other activities, part of the undertakings from agricultural and forestry activities will be able to identify income on the basis of actual revenues and standardised expenditure, which simplifies the bookkeeping system and is even more favourable for farms than for other activities, as agricultural and complementary activities are recognised by 70% of the standard costs, in view of other activities where we recognise only 25% of the standard costs. From the point of view of administrative burden, it should be said that around 4 thousand farms already run a fairly complex FAD bookkeeping related to the granting of subsidies. More than 3 000 200 farms are included in the VAT system. It follows from the above comparisons that only those farms which are found to operate as economic operators with a sufficiently high production volume will be covered by the mandatory management of the books. This is normally more than 20 hectares of agricultural land. We are also preparing measures to make it easier for farmers to keep books. The Ministry of Agriculture is preparing a user-friendly computer-supported accounting programme that will be able to keep all the necessary records for all the different needs and will be able to manage them themselves without the participation of accounting services. Changes in accounting standards are also being prepared. It takes into account all the foregoing, once again, I propose to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposed content of the bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u282	Let me also clarify once again the position of the Group of Members which supported this amendment of the law, which is not supported by the Government and also by the obviously coalition. Yesterday we spoke about the great concern for agricultural land, agriculture, and expressed concern about the situation in the area of self-sustainment and the like. I mentioned yesterday that I hope that we will all be able to prepare the normal conditions for farming together in this country and that these conditions and only farming, including income, will be successful for farmers. Certainly the additional administrative costs that we are introducing are not incentives that farmers, even older or younger, have led to this direction in order to feel encouraged by the country to support agriculture. As regards these heights and costs and comparisons with other countries. You know, one important difference is between Germany, Austria and Slovenia by farm size. Fortunately in Austria, Germany did not have an agrarian reform of legislation that would then divide these farms into small farms in the last 30, 40 years. And so today in Slovenia we have this average of 5.6 hectares, in Austria this average is close to 20 hectares, in Germany on which we refer, but this average is eight times higher than in Slovenia. For this reason, the share of those farms involved in such a decision can certainly be in those countries where policy has in the past enabled them to remain economically efficient, to become more involved and to participate in these matters. In our case, we have been doing calculations on who will be forced to include EUR 7 000 500 of total revenue after 2013 in this mandatory bookkeeping – farms with 12 to 15 hectares, or from 10 to 13 hectares, where they have ten, eight hectares of grass, five hectares of farmland, and out of it the possibility of processing and producing, say, fifteen to twenty dairy cows, so many dairy cows or so on. As far as agriculture is concerned and income from this activity, it is well known that it is certainly not the income of a semi-professional, professional farm, but it is the income that allows 0.3 or 0.5 jobs, and to these people, in addition to everything that needs to be done in agriculture now, you will also add the cost of managing administrative costs with some accounting. Many of these thousands of euros per year do not now remain from net income farming. Whoever's doing this knows that. Whom we are actually afraid of in this country was the issue on the Economic Commission for Europe, the Commission of the State Council. From tax legislation, where it is tried to settle things with some administration, supervision, penalties, inter-commissioned commissions, where the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Agriculture Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the strong Commission are now meeting, we are trying, instead of being flat-rate tax, to find out what will now be comparable, appropriate, fair, and how these, as you have written down in the Government's position, large farms will be taxed as much as they can be collected. I think that it is simply one demagogose deposit, an investment that may even be liked, sounds good at first sight, but in fact – believe me, I know this area so much – you will not make it any different than it is that you will probably make large farms more comparable to today, from these small ones maybe even less or the same, anything that will be the difference from this tax, but that there will be an additional three million euro outflow from agriculture to accounting services or to some others who will carry out this activity. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret such a position of the Government, such a coalition position, and I think that from this point of view there is still some old spirit in the field of legislation, because in this country someone is still afraid of someone who is working. Such people should be encouraged, given the opportunity of a flat-rate tax. On the part of the Commission of the State Council, the only observation was to this amendment of the law, why we do not do so yet for craftsmen, and that we really would like to collect from honest and good citizens what the state should pick up and allow them to engage in their activities, not in administration. Unfortunately, this experiment will fail again, perhaps another time in which it will succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u284	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for an amendment to the Income Act. Our opinion is absolutely no different from that of the parent working body, which has adopted a decision that states that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. The tax treatment of farmers has recently been the subject of debate in this Chamber. At that time, Members of the DeSUS advocated a solution to the equal and fair treatment of all farmers, i.e. that subsidies should be taxed on actual amounts, not just on averages. At that time, we Members of the National Assembly also adopted a solution concerning mandatory accounting by farmers, provided that the total income of the members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500. The reason for the latter is completely justified. The level of the threshold has been established professionally, in view of the principle of the pursuit of equal treatment of all debtors, it has been assessed that this threshold corresponds to the level of one minimum wage of the worker or worker. The excess of this threshold – in this respect, we agree with the Government in the DeSUS Group – already represents the market orientation of production, which can be defined as an economic activity and is compared by economic indicators with other economic activities of natural persons. Members of the DeSUS Group estimate that the applicable income law now regulates the taxation of farmers fairly and appropriately, including in terms of the equality of income tax for workers and workers. We are confident that the non-admission of this law will in no way lead and affect the reduction of interest in agricultural and forestry activities, and consequently not the extent of agricultural production in the country and thus the deterioration of the percentage of Slovenian self-sustainment. Therefore, Members of the DeSUS will support the decision of the parent working body, so that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u286	Thank you for saying so, once again, a nice hello to everyone. After a long-standing procedure when adopting the Income Act, which the National Assembly had to decide again, since the Council of State voted veto, we are faced again today with the familiar subject of taxation of agricultural holdings and the related mandatory bookkeeping. And that is exactly what this new law aims at, that is, allowing farmers to decide for themselves how to determine the tax base, and that they are not obliged to keep books. In our opinion, the recently adopted amendment to the law has brought appropriate, good and, above all, fair and fair solutions, and therefore we do not see the need to reopen these provisions of the Income Law. Let us recall that at that time the State Council, as well as part of the opposition, referred to the inadequacy of that part of the law, which updates the provisions on taxation of farm incomes and the management of books or compulsory bookkeeping. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we believe that it is right to keep books on those farms where a certain income threshold is exceeded. So not in small, not in small, not in mountain, not in those with small incomes in difficult situations, but in those who generate higher incomes. And it is right and fair that they pay the tax not from the flat, but from the actual situation, as well as the income and income we all predict in this country. Finally, this practice is also applicable to all other entities, particularly in the part where we are talking about a system of standardised costs. Voluntary decision-making when a person enters a system of flat-rate taxation and taxation based on actual income and expenditure is by no means reasonable, since it is only fair to pay the tax on the basis of the actual situation. Even those proposing in the draft law state that, for example, Germany is encouraging the transition from the tax system to the management of a two-pronged bookkeeping system. Applicants also state that the current accounting standards do not provide an appropriate framework for keeping books on farms, which is why in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we certainly do not agree, as many farms already run books today. At the same time, our "work" is being removed, as there is a special accounting standard in preparation that will allow simplified book management and not only that, but also more, a special software or information solution is being prepared that will allow farmers to manage books on their own without greater costs. When the debate on the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 for someone to enter the mandatory bookkeeping system, it should be stressed that at that time the coalition has heard comments that the threshold of EUR 5 000 is too low and that we have therefore accepted the proposal and raised the threshold to EUR 7 000 500. This eliminates quite a few farms in Slovenia, which will not have to keep books. It is also not possible to ignore the fact that the symbiosis will not take full effect as predicted until 2013. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore find it difficult to understand the intentions to continue with the existing, untransparent, and for those who pay more, but create less, and also the criminal situation. Even more, we believe that mandatory accounting can have positive effects for the farms themselves, as they will also be able to impose actual costs and thereby reduce their tax base and pay less tax. However, in order to make sense of the bookkeeping, today’s statistics show that, for example, there are over 3,000 200 farms in the VAT system, of which 336 are essential, and all the others — 2,900 — are voluntarily keeping books. However, we agree with the proposaler's initiative that, of course, rural and Slovenian agriculture should be given all the attention, assistance and encouragement, but I think that what can be solved is, above all, an appropriate competitive pricing policy, which will also recognise fair payment for the honest work of the Slovenian farmer. We do not see the need in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to change the legal solution that has been adopted and that is why we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Group of Non-Related Members would prefer to see other open issues and articles of the Income Act, which could talk about higher general relief and different tax burdens from the income scales. But even though it is the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes, but here for only a few thousand, it is also the subject of our thinking. When we talk about the proposal to set a different basis for paying income for farmers, we insist on the position that we have maintained in all previous procedures, and there have been several. They were already listed today. The arguments for adopting this bill as proposed and the arguments against it are diametrically contradictory. And for us in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the Government's arguments are much more convincing, much more documented and also more politically acceptable. For it is a matter of increasing righteousness, it is a matter of the tax burden of actual income, and of the fact that there is no overflow of funds in the context of these tax investments in the manner of determining the payment of taxes after the flat-rate. There have already been many numbers listed today that speak in favour of rejecting the bill. And I would add a few more information to this with a number of subsidies, which, of course, are granted to agriculture, or I would like to remind you of something. The agricultural economy was also burdened as regards the cadastral income. He's going down. The agricultural economy has obtained certain ratings in such a way that a percentage of the refunded excise duty has increased. It also received incentives to increase investment facilitation. And not only that – these are actually smaller cases. We are talking about the key problems of agriculture and processes are under way in this National Assembly, such as how to protect agriculture by protecting agricultural land. And with everything listed today, it would be really hard for the government and the ministry to read about how to get more money from agriculture. If that were the purpose, then everything you have prepared for agriculture would not be prepared and proposed for admission. We are convinced that the agricultural ministry under the current leadership is on the right track, on the right path to take relatively good care of the agricultural area, and also their arguments against the support of this law convince us that we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We cannot support the amendment of the Income Act in the Social Democrats' Group of the said proposal, as we note that such a change in the law would be at the expense of smaller farms, as the flat-rate income for them is overestimated at a given time, so they pay too much tax and, of course, more favourable for larger farms. Therefore, the possible thinking in this direction of the proposers may not have been sufficiently examined or I must stress, as some of the views of the groups before me have already been presented – in fact, within the competent ministries, there has been a very special service for the activity of agriculture, and we ourselves in the Group of Social Democrats find and assess that the specific area of agriculture, agricultural activity, in a given period of economic and financial crisis, is a branch of activity, particularly for those who have the opportunity to engage in agricultural activities, which is largely supported by the Government. Therefore, a group of Members with a first-signed France Bogovic who submitted to the National Assembly for consideration the proposal for amending the Income Act proposing to remove from the law the scheme established by the new Income Act, which was adopted in December 2010, provides that, where the total income of members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500, the tax base of that income should be established on the basis of actual income and actual expenditure or on the basis of actual income and standardised expenditure, the applicants justify their proposal by requiring the management of the book to cover an excessive number of farms in order not to take into account the criteria which would include only professional farms in this obligation, that the established solution is clearly not favourable to most farms, since the bookkeeping obligation to maintain the book covers an excessive number of farms, that the corresponding obligation to impose such an obligation would not be subject to such an accounting obligation, and that the established method should clearly not be adjusted to the financial solution of the farm. It is precisely the argument of the applicants that the management of the farm bookkeeping is clearly an unfavourable solution, since in the years when only around 130 farms were able to determine the tax base on the basis of actual revenue and actual expenditure or actual farm expenditure and standardised farm expenditure, it is possible to use the tax base to underpin the position of the Government and the Social Democrats Group. Obviously, the flat-rate income that I have previously presented is more favourable for larger farms to have no interest in transition in a more corrective way of determining income. This is not a question of polynomization, but of actual income. Therefore, that, as a rule, for a smaller scope of activity is overestimated, for small farms such a way of taxation is too high, and for a larger scope of activity, i.e. for larger farms, it is generally undervalued, i.e. too low. The rebuttal of the Income Act, which was implemented by the novel, provides that where the total income of the members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500, the tax base of this income should be determined on the basis of actual income and actual expenditure or on the basis of actual income and standard expenditure. It is not the view of the applicants that all households that will meet that condition will have to start to maintain a demanding double bookkeeping, since, if the conditions of Article 48, paragraph 6, of the Income Act are met, households will be able to determine the extent to which the revenues from the activities of each member will not exceed EUR 42 000 by keeping a simple register of revenue and taking into account the standard expenditure, 70%. So in the Group of Social Democrats we will not support this amendment of the law. It is also a matter of reducing the scope of the proposal, so here matters still need to be examined and possibly proposed differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me say immediately in the introduction that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support or vote against the decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration, since the proposed solution means eliminating the unnecessary and administrative burdensome obligation to establish the tax base on the basis of actual income and expenditure, or on the basis of actual income and standardised expenditure, if the total income of the members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7,000 500. From the point of view of simplification and removal of administrative barriers, this would necessarily be necessary, since in the reverse case this would mean that farmers will have to start keeping real income business books after the transitional period of 2013 and that if the total income of the members of the agricultural household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500. Or, think about when it's over €625 a month or more, 20.83 a day. In comparison, not so long ago, the boss now received an annual salary of €794,000 gross and €2 000 gross per day for almost bankrupt SCT companies. Therefore, if the total income of the members of the farm household exceeds EUR 7 000 500, they will have to keep business books. In addition to being unreasonable and even demeaning, it should be borne in mind that the exercise of agricultural and forestry activities has certain specificities that cannot be thrown into one basket, for example, with other especies, and that a specific accounting standard for the management of agricultural accounting should be adopted in advance. All of this is also linked to higher costs, as most farmers should seek accounting services to do so. Of course, it is also necessary to optimise tax obligations in agriculture today. However, it is more than obvious that this is not the most appropriate way, since today, despite the possibility that they can make a voluntary decision already, only around 130 farm households are able to find income on the basis of keeping business books. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, as we say, support the proposal for a law, and we expect the Government to develop future agricultural accounting standards that take into account the specificity of agricultural activity and would also be more attractive for the household to decide how to determine the tax base. I think that a farmer needs to be interested in keeping books, and he needs to see an advantage or benefit in this, which is positive for both taxpayers and the state. Let me finish with the saying, "the poor farmer, the poor country," and vice versa, "the rich farmer, the rich country." I hope we're not afraid of these anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u293	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, which is at 6.20 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 6.20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u294	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds in the framework of the urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendment tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 19. 5. 2011. We move on to Article 16 and decide on the amendment of Article 16 of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Let me just remind you that you would like this amendment to grant scholarships to those students aged 15 to 18 years. If we do not support this amendment, then these students, who are usually the ones farthest from the educational centres, will be at a disadvantage. And that is why I urge you to support this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u296	Thank you very much. So explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u297	The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support the amendment. The law on the exercise of rights from public funds has combined under one name two rights – a child allowance and a state grant – while significantly increasing the amount it will receive, the amount of this increased child allowance. If the child's allowance was 0.3% of the minimum income before, that is to say about €92 and a scholarship of €68, this total amount now amounts to €256, which is increased to 0.89% of the minimum income. This makes it very clear that we are not taking anything to bring together two rights under one name, but in the event that parents and children agree to receive the benefit of children under Article 34 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, they can also obtain that right. In short, this is a substantive and financial explanation why we will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 32. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Please, Franz Pukšič, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u299	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues! I am proposing the law precisely because the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party has not been adopted, and I will not support it. Well, actually, a person can't believe it, and it could be written under the heading "so it's not true." The Social Democrats are in power. Social Democrats, it's supposed to mean something, but it's social democrats who take away the elderly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u300	Comrade Pukšič, no controversy, no controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u301	who are already taking children who are taking away those who are in need and who are taking over the countryside. [[...]] So, why? We don't need it, we have one big enough city, one big mayor, we're gonna give him a call for him, for his Staff. In short, we're going to burn this whole thing down and the country is going to keep spinning, just like it is now, and it's going to turn in the direction of hell, and we know who the hell the ruler is. Taking children and telling them that this will be done through a child supplement When you add up two or three tractors, which are part of the property of a farm, and because of this tractor, two or three, for which parents will not receive a child supplement, children will simply not be able to even go to high school! [[...]] Prohibit the elementary school and you'll have a stupid system! This is obviously what we would like, games and bread and conducting with an SD rod from White Ljubljana throughout the country. You really can't support a marriage like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 25. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementation of the Law on Social Security Benefits in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19. 5. 2011. We are moving on to Article 7 and to the decision on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Article 7. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u303	Thank you. With this amendment, we want state pensions to remain. The recipients of state pensions are mostly people who in the past could or should not have been insured, such as housewives and rural women, even though they have worked their entire lives. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, in which we elected in the Slovenian People's Party that this state pension is included, since we are fighting for these 16,000 citizens who receive it – if the law falls at the referendum, they will no longer receive it. How will you explain this to these recipients if you do not support this amendment today? It is also not reasonable if our amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act confirmed that it would not be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 35. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his own name, Guido Kres and Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u305	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not oppose the law, nor will I support it, because this amendment, which has been, I can say, a quality amendment, has not been adopted. Look, if the PIZ-2 goes down, these state pensions go down, too. I understand you, Mr Minister – it is not fair for some to receive income unjustifiably during this crisis, but also to receive excessive income unjustifiably, and this can indeed be debated and it is so necessary to save during the crisis. But when these pensions were introduced, we had before us, above all, that we would once like to reach universal basic income. You all know what this universal basic income means, and I could say that we introduced it at least after 65 years of age. Today, it has also been said that some receive these incomes, which are in one way or another very good economic or if you want a financial situation. But Mr. Minister, are you sure that in those houses, in those families where this mother, who has spent her entire life caring for her family, her husband brought home good income, today has a good pension – especially women's Members listen to it – I don't know if this man is always so generous as to contribute to his wife that part of the income she earned. In our country, however, it is not arranged that she must go from her husband’s pension to the same woman who has worked and cared for her family throughout her life, keep three corners up and that the matter has run as it should be. And today he's probably asking his husband if he can get her a haircut or a cup of coffee. I don't know, in this I see this income and this amendment that we should keep these pensions there, because I'm sure that's what's happening in our houses and behind our walls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I will not support this marriage alone, but I will tell you why I will not vote against it. For one reason alone, because it shifts the application of this law to 1. 1. 2012. And what happens to 1. 1. 2012? On June 5th, they're going to be gypsies, they're electives and voters, they probably gave three times no, and you're not going in the second round. Then you'll be gone and we'll fix the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. 5. 2011. We move on to Article 2 and move on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u309	Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed amendment. Only with the support of this amendment, which no one claims to be ideal, but only with the support of this amendment can we open up a very sensitive area of cooperation between the National Assembly and the Commission. Also at the hearing on the working body, the Commission was very clear on the signal that it wanted more cooperation and therefore on the question of how to do so. If this amendment is not adopted, the article will not be open and all words, including those members of the coalition who have advocated it, will become meaningless. The area of combating corruption, however, is a sensitive area, should be an area where a social consensus should be sought. If the current ruling coalition, when adopting the basic law, had not sought it at that time, it would have been good to seek it now because of an unfortunate story with the leader of the largest government party in the European Parliament. Because the President of the European Parliament has made it very clear that he will now closely monitor developments in all countries where people have been caught in corruption, their Members in the European Parliament, including Mr Thaler. Today is the first opportunity to show that by confirming the amendments tabled by the SDS, you are serious, even when you are looking for consensus by both the position and the opposition. Corruption is a cancerous tissue that eats up any society, and the fight against it is much more important than it seems. The success of this fight also depends on the economic performance of each country and, therefore, let me remind you that in the course of only two and a half years of the government's reign on the World Competitiveness Yearbook, Slovenia has turned completely into a tail. Regrettably, today, countries such as Romania, if you want Portugal, which is just before bankruptcy, even some Peru and Kazakhstan would find each other. Therefore, because it is an important topic, because it is a problem that obviously touches the ruling coalition, not only in Slovenia, even its officials at European level, it would be good for you to accept this amendment today and allow us to show and show by seeking consensus that we are serious about the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u310	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 37. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 3 and move on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 9. [[in favour of 37 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 5 and move on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 4. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 12 and move on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 12. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 15 and move on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u311	Your Honor! It is more than obvious that Slovenia has a rather unfortunate hand in this mandate among some people who are part of the ruling coalition in the European Union. This thing would be good to settle once and for all. The European Union authorities themselves recognise that those systems of their internal control, which are in place, are not particularly effective, and recommend to the Member States themselves that they do so in their own discretion. I would like to remind you that the head of the list of SD's largest government party was caught in a corrupt act. And I would like to point out that, with regard to some others who perform by appointment by the Government or Parliament in this mandate of certain functions at European Union level, we have also been able to read in Slovenian media some interesting information about the various strange business moves, ties, lobbying and more. Such things, of course, cast on Slovenia as a whole some strange light in the European Union and in all the democratic world. And this is certainly reflected by potential business partners. For this reason too, the fight against corruption is so important. Therefore, we propose to include in this system of supervision, as is the case for officials within the borders of the country of Slovenia, all the officials who carry out their work and tasks at European Union level. So that we will never read again later on how journalists caught someone and flags in the act of corruption, and then this same person threatens them with an additional counter suit and thus throws an extra weird light on the state of Slovenia and, of course, on that party that she elected or proposed there. And also to avoid reading about odd deals with different cars, and about everything else that we read about in our newspapers these days — very, very informative things. For this reason, it would be good if the coalition voted in favour of the amendment we are proposing. We will enforce it, if not now, and in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? I guess not. In his own name, Dr. Vinko Gorenak,
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u313	Thank you very much. In the process of adopting this amendment, we have already been on the committee and we have actually experienced something today. What exactly are we proposing? We propose to include some of the people with this amendment – by name, Squeakle, Rob and so on, including the European Members – in this law. We're not proposing anything else. And the position was, if so, European rules do not allow it. I asked very clearly during the debate, and there was a state secretary present, and there is a whole coalition here who knows everything and knows everything and let one tell me which European regulation prevents the Republic of Slovenia from bringing these people under this law. I don't have that answer until now when we vote. And because I don't have this answer, and when we see the result, and if this result is negative for this amendment, then if you reject this amendment, at least I'll understand that you're protecting some people for unknown reasons. That's not good. In short, I will understand the amendment as protecting the inventor of the glass palace, Mr. Cwickel, or the inventor of the incidents in the Gulf of Piran, which are now rewarded with €18,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 31. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 29 and to the decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 29. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 33 and to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 33. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 32. [[35 votes in favour]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to another amendment, to decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to the same article, this is an amendment under order number 2. The previous one was under order number 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 5. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 34 and to the decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 34. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 43, for 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3, 5, 12, 15, 29, 33 and 34 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments or amendments to this article. Please, mag. Borut Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u315	Thank you very much, President. I am predicting the submission of amendments, so I propose that the third review be carried out on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I take it the amendments have been announced. I therefore interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 24 May after the final vote. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network in the framework of the shorter procedure. No amendments were tabled for the second reading of the amended proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 38, for 30. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on the issue of liability for the payment of property seized for the purpose of repealing the penalty for the confiscation of property under the reduced procedure. For the second reading of the amendments to the amended draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present for 58, against 5. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Income in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 30. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 14, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Safety and Health at Work under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 17. 5. 2011 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled that you received on the bench with the date of 18. 5. 2011. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 28. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Anyone else we can see? Mag. Andrej Vizjak, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u317	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the amendment restores the text to the original text adopted by the Government and proposed to that assembly, although this second paragraph of Article 28 was voted on by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, then the Government or then coalition groups wanted to abolish this second paragraph in the second reading and this amendment was rejected. And now in the third instance, in spite of the two-time vote on this matter in Parliament, the government, of course, would probably like to throw the four groups out under the signature of the Government. What is it, exactly? It's a very simple matter and a useful matter. In fact, I believe that the professional safety worker must meet certain conditions to carry out this work competently in the light of the risks of the industry or the employer in which he performs these professional tasks. Indeed, we know that in construction, for example, about 45% of all accidents at work and certainly in construction work must be met and have some other knowledge, such as that of a security professional at work in accounting and financial activities or with a lawyer, let's say, I don't know, in activities that are significantly less dangerous and risky for safety and health. In fact, the amendment that was voted on the Committee and which you want to throw out with this amendment says that the conditions to be met by the professional worker are laid down by the Minister responsible for the work and depend on the type of activity of the employer and the type and degree of risk of accidents at work, occupational diseases and diseases associated with the work of workers. In fact, I think it is very important that the Minister lays down, by means of a sub-law, the conditions that a professional worker must fulfil and, of course, depend on the type of employer's activities and the level of risk. In fact, if this amendment is adopted, it will require that the employer himself determine the conditions to be met by the professional worker, which means that, for example, it will be in construction where we have, you know, a lot of employers who are trained from other republics and do not know what everything is and, of course, have a lot of, of course, a complete anarchy. If these employers authorize their fellow workers as professionals, not only will they be at greater risk for the safety of these workers in this employer, but others who are located in this construction site. For you know, there are usually many subcontractors there, and coordination is often a problem. Therefore, this second paragraph of Article 28 goes in the direction of determining, where there is a risk, the stricter conditions for a professional worker, for safety at work, and where the risk is lower, the conditions are softer. And I think that's an expert question, and I think the Minister can satisfactorily solve it so that the matter will be fine. I think that the proposal of this amendment is going too liberally, so that really now the employer is left with what conditions the professional worker will meet, and that it is enough to have only a general part of the professional examination – that is, knowledge of legal certainty or legal regulation and safety at work. I believe that this is not enough for those activities and those professions where the risks are high. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will oppose this amendment, as we have in the second reading, because we believe that this, of course, gives relief to those who do not have a risk, but put themselves at greater risk where health risks at work are greater. I think the implementation of this second paragraph would be an important step in this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u318	Comrade Visjak, please close. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u319	I'm sorry. 5 minutes and 9 seconds, 15 more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u320	No, no. Five minutes, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u321	Your Honor, this solution is meant to adapt to the content, not to be soft, or sharp, regardless of the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Willie Rezman. Of course, everyone has five minutes to discuss. Please, Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members supported the proposal now in force after the second defence, and we will oppose the proposal to delete Article 28, paragraph 2, as proposed by the former coalition. I'll tell you why we think this has to be maintained. The reason is very simple. The amendment, as proposed now, is to the detriment of both professionalism and safety and health at work. This amendment foresees that the employer himself will decide what kind of knowledge, skills, skills a professional needs. The following article sets out his tasks. Now let us see what tasks this professional will perform, among other things. First time. He advises the employer, who can be said to be uneducated, and can appoint someone who does not have a professional education to advise him on how to plan protection at work. I think it's perfectly absurd. Another time. It advises the employer on the equipment and processes of work. Once again, he can select an arbitrary person, any of his employees, because there are no conditions specified, what education someone must have to be able to advise on safety, on the choice of equipment and on the planning of work processes. Third time. He's in internal control of health care. So it's also over the one he's determined to carry out this surveillance. Indirectly, the employer will control himself. Next absurdity. Number four. cooperates with the medical professional without the necessary education. Someone will cooperate and advise a doctor of medicine, a specialist in medicine, and they don't need any special skills to do that. And the fifth time, I picked some of them out of 11 assignments. He is training those who may be significantly more educated than he is, because this is what his employer has dedicated to him. Here, however, they line up absurdly one after another, and because it is absurd for us, we believe that the Minister, with his professional team, who will be able to choose it himself, is still able to determine what conditions must be met by the one who will train for safety at work and cooperate with a doctor of medicine who specializes in medicine.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so who else wants to? [[...]] He doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS to Article 28. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 35. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. Does the representative of the government want a word about coherence? Minister Ivan Svetlik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that this amendment has not now been adopted, I propose that, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you give the Government the mandate and deadline for the harmonisation amendment to Article 29, because these two articles must now be harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u326	Since the Government has warned that, following the third reading of the bill due to the amendment adopted, the amendment has not been harmonised, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Tuesday, 24 May, following the rest of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 28th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much.
