ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be held by the following Members: Victory by Jelinčič Nobleni, Matjaž Zanoškar and Miran Györek. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a foreign law within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce a new law on foreigners in a short time. The proposal for a new law on foreigners does not change the conceptual design of the law, and this conceptual design remains the same as it has been known since 1999. The new text has taken into account the European Commission's guidelines on the free movement of persons and the provisions of the three new directives have been transposed into law. That is, the Council Directive on common standards and procedures in Member States for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, then the Council Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. The law before you today brings a number of innovations that represent certain reliefs or a rise in the level of rights for migrants. Let me list the most important ones in the introduction. The implementation of the "one-stop shop" principle will reduce the administrative burden for a foreigner applying for a blue card. It's about foreigners who are highly skilled workers. The Blue Card will be obtained by foreigners through a single procedure, allowing them to stay as well as work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a novelty, since the foreigner will operate only with an administrative unit, which will obtain approval from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment under official responsibility for highly qualified employment. The bill gives more rights to foreigners who are in the process of being forcibly removed. This will give foreigners residing illegally in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to leave the country voluntarily while providing them with adequate legal protection. In the process of removing a foreigner, a return decision will be issued against which a foreigner will have the possibility of appeal. The law provides for the protection of the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment, since it allows a foreigner to obtain a detention permit and, at a later stage, also a residence permit if a foreigner is willing to cooperate with the judicial authorities in proceedings against an illegally employed employer. The bill also introduces easier entry for certain categories of foreigners, such as foreigners who wish to attend seminars or other forms of education in the Republic of Slovenia, family members of Slovenian citizen, athletes, trainers, accredited journalists, foreigners who engage in religious activities, and those who enter the Republic of Slovenia because of the existence of economic interest for Slovenia. These categories of legislation allow the issuing of a long-term residence visa, the so-called D visa, for entry into the country and the regulation of the first residence permit in the country. The law allows certain categories of foreigners to obtain their first residence permit and to serve it in the Republic of Slovenia and not abroad, which is the general rule of European law. In this case it is researchers and students who in another Member State of the European Union have a residence permit and who wish to reside in the Republic of Slovenia for more than three months, holders of a blue card issued by another Member State wishing to reside in the Republic of Slovenia for more than three months, and their family members, long-term residents, foreigners who are victims of trafficking in human beings and victims of illegal employment and family members of European Union and Slovenian citizens. In addition, the proposal for a law on foreigners extends the definition of family members of foreigners and citizens of the European Union with a registered partner and partner with whom a foreigner lives a longer-term living community. As proponents, we believe that the solutions to the new law are appropriate, so we propose that the honourable Members and Members support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a new law on foreigners, which has upset the Slovenian public even before the adoption of the government and the introduction into the national assembly procedure. The idea is that this proposal is created only so that Slovenia can accept prisoners from Guantanamo, but the proposal for a new law brings a number of good solutions that represent certain reliefs or raising the level of rights of migrants living in Slovenia, so we will also support the proposal in the DeSUS Group. The law thus gives effect to the principle of 'all in one place', which removes administrative obstacles for workers coming to Slovenia for the purpose of employment and obtains a so-called Blue Card, which is a single permit for work and residence in Slovenia. The law also confers more rights on foreigners in the process of forcible removal, as a result of the transposition of the Return Directive. Foreigners residing illegally in the territory of Slovenia will be given the opportunity to leave the country voluntarily after a decision on voluntary return has been issued to them. This ensures adequate legal protection by means of a decision to which a foreigner may complain during the removal process. The law also provides for the protection of the rights of aliens who are victims of illegal employment, as it allows for the authorisation of detention and, at a later stage, residence permits if a foreigner is willing to cooperate with the judicial authorities in the proceedings against the employer. The Law also introduces easy entry for certain categories of foreigners – athletes, trainers, accredited journalists, economists, foreigners who want to be educated, family members of Slovenian citizens – as it allows them to issue a long-term residence visa for entry into the country and to regulate the first residence permit in the country. The proposal for a law on foreigners also extends the definition of family members of foreigners and citizens of the European Union. As probably the majority of today's debaters who will follow me, even in the DeSUS Group we cannot avoid the possible reception of Guantanamo prisoners. The fact is that the proposal of this law makes this possible. On the basis of a proposal from the Ministry or State authority concerned, the Government shall decide by decision whether there is a national interest in the arrival and authorisation of such a foreigner in Slovenia. The proposal of the Ministry concerned must demonstrate a certain interest, and evidence must also be provided to the government that the foreigner will have sufficient means of subsistence and adequate health insurance. On the basis of a decision of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior shall grant a temporary residence permit of up to five years. A foreigner is hereby granted a temporary residence permit and can reside legally in Slovenia. This would establish a legal basis for the entry and residence of persons from Guantanamo in Slovenia. More questions are now being asked here. The main question is whether Slovenians are in fact as open and friendly as our Prime Minister wants us to be, especially when we are talking about foreigners who were otherwise unjustifiably suspected of terrorism. The second question is whether, given the low support it enjoys, the Government can even afford a decision on the admission of a prisoner from Guantanamo. If we come from an opinion presented by the Slovenian media to receive most Slovenians opposes. The third question is, what status would such a person have if we knew that persons from Guantanamo do not have the status of convict and are prisoners? In Slovenia these persons would be free. We also wonder where these people would be settled, under what conditions, what rehabilitation we can offer them, how we can protect them from the likely negative reactions of the environment and so on. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that any panic prior to the admission of a convict from Guantanamo is premature, as many open questions need to be addressed in order to apply this. Unfortunately, we all forget about this subject when we receive a prisoner from Guantanamo primarily for humanitarian action, because these people have been kidnapped and forcibly taken away from their families, tortured inhumanely, and that most of them have been unjustly suspected of terrorism. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it would be a shame to see a good proposal for a new law fall due to unfounded fears, so we will, as we say, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President! The proposed law on foreigners brings certain new solutions that we support in the Slovenian National Party Group. However, the law also contains provisions that are totally unacceptable to us. Allow me to put forward further concerns, opposition and support for some of the content of the new Foreign Act under consideration. The draft law provides that a foreigner must obtain his first residence permit, paragraph 36, before entering Slovenia, which means that he must apply for permission at the diplomatic office or consulate of the Republic of Slovenia. It is quite funny that the Ministry of the Interior interprets that decision quite contrary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because they believe that the time for obtaining the permit should be extended twice. They'll have to adjust their equipment and hire new people. At the Ministry of the Interior, which has been preparing the law, however, the law allows for greater flexibility for foreign and state authorities leading the proceedings. How, then, can it be that the law has been passed in the Government despite this dual interpretation? Next. The law introduces the so-called Blue Card — Articles 41, 42, 43, 44, and 45 — a permit for temporary residence due to highly qualified employment. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we support that the law allows special treatment for highly educated foreigners and introduces a regime for their residence permit "all in one place", i.e. in an administrative unit or diplomatic representation abroad. In addition, it is not necessary to obtain a valid work permit and they are subject to immediate family reunification. The new Aliens Act extends a number of narrower family members in the exercise of family reunification rights, referred to in Article 49, which we also oppose in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. We are confident that this provision will result in unnecessary abuse, that many foreigners have already exploited the institution of family reunification and have used social, health rights in this context and have not actually lived in Slovenia. For the Member State of the Republic of Slovenia, the most controversial article of the Act in question is the residence permit for other justified reasons and for the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This article will also allow prisoners from Guantanamo to stay in Slovenia. However, we strongly oppose the content of this Article in the Slovenian National Party Group. The way in which the President of the Government agreed to receive two prisoners is totally unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. We must not allow Slovenia to agree to such promises by the President of the Government or perhaps by blackmailing the United States of America. Let the Americans clean up their own mistakes. In cases where a residence permit is granted because of the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, the law allows for a number of exceptions and facilitations. The first residence is the case, as has already been said, that a foreigner must obtain a first residence permit before entering Slovenia, but the proposer for foreigners whose residence is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, for example, prisoners from Guantanamo, has made an exception. They are considered to have been granted temporary residence permits by the Ministry of the Interior, even if they are already living in Slovenia, for other foreigners this is the reason for the rejection of the application. The law also allows foreigners residing in Slovenia to be granted a permanent residence permit before the expiry of five years of continuous stay in Slovenia. In short, the new law on foreigners appears to be based on the admission of foreigners who are supposed to be here because of the interest of Slovenia or, rather, because of certain interests of individuals from the Slovenian government There are provisions in the law that define the way foreigners are controlled, such as the foreign police, the control of foreign residences, the identification of actual residence, which is called the green card abroad. Members of the Slovenian National Party will not be supported by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u8	Your Honor! Before he saw the light of the world or when he was preparing for some of the debates, he had raised much thought, raised much dust, and even many unfounded objections. The fact is that the adaptation of Slovenian legislation to certain directives, to certain guidelines and to certain general standards that apply in the field of human rights, in particular the need to continuously renew, upgrade and Slovenia has not yet built up its legal system to the extent that it can be said that everything is done according to the measure of citizens and citizens, to the extent of those foreigners and foreigners who wish to reside in Slovenia in one way or another, and we also invite them in some way, especially when it comes to employment when it comes to the needs of the Slovenian economy when it comes to the needs of other areas of life and work in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we understand this law in particular as progress towards improving the conditions, standards in this area. Europe, especially as it is designed and based on the principles of the founding acts and subsequent acts adopted not least by the Treaty of Lisbon, has set very high standards when it comes to the movement of people within the European Union, as well as in relation to nationals and third-country nationals who also migrate or temporarily or permanently reside as foreigners and are also integrated into society under the conditions laid down by the law. This applies to every country, especially in the European Union, which performs these tasks in accordance with the directives, the guidelines of the European Union, as well as the specifics of its country, given the sensitivity in certain areas. We know that, especially when it comes to the issue of refugees, for example, the most relevant are the African countries from which refugees are fleeing, which could also be discussed in a certain way, why, to what extent and to what extent. I think that a big mistake has been made to start with this law, although it has been in preparation or prepared before, to discuss more intensively when Slovenia is supposed to accept prisoners from Guantanamo. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia could, without amending the law, grant status and recognise residence – not to prisoners, but to civilians, because they are imprisoned there without conviction, because they are closed or closed, but now they are moving across certain countries, including the countries of the European Union, that this cannot be compared with the admission of prisoners, but with the granting of the status of foreigners in our country. It is not possible to agree on the idea that the law itself will either allow or prevent this acceptance, this granting of this status, but it depends on the procedures, on the political will, on the web of circumstances, at least in Slovenia to accept the pressures of any country, either the US or any other, to say so, you must do so in Slovenia and in Slovenia you would do so. If this is contrary to Slovenian interests, Slovenian legislation cannot, of course, happen, but otherwise the question of how Slovenia is open, how it adopts certain different arrangements, different conclusions that could help, will contribute to the conclusion of some dramas that hold a large part of the world in uncertainty, even more quickly. During this period, we are also witnessing in these days some things that are totally unpredictable, and the question is what this will also mean for the further development of the events in relation to Guantanamo, so it is a shame that today we will focus on this issue in particular. As we say, we understand this law more broadly than the upgrade of everything we already have in place, rather than the need to transpose certain directives, for example when it comes to the protection of aliens who are in the process of expulsion, in the process of employment and in the various other things mentioned in the law. That's what's important. We would not agree with this and we do not agree that this law is being passed simply because someone would like to receive in Slovenia these two or whatever prisoners from Guantanamo. We want the general standards for the protection of human rights, especially for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for foreigners or any other category of people who happen to appear in these procedures, to be as high as possible, and that there can be no bidding here on whether this Slovenia will cost more or less. It certainly cannot harm her when it comes to being classified as a high standard country and which appreciates the dignity of each individual, whether a status citizen or one who needs some assistance, someone has provided, within the framework of his rights, even when he is a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia. We don't want to see them back on some lists that tell us that we're unfriendly to strangers, that we're having some kind of inhumane relationship. The next item that we have on the agenda today is actually an indication of how some things can be settled and, on the other hand, the controversy when a matter is settled. I am speaking, of course, of deleted persons, who in some part also have something to do with this point. We are also talking about foreigners who have had some status, and they have lost it, and the Republic of Slovenia is also due to the fact that it has repeatedly been in reports by international organisations as an unfriendly country because of those acts that now, due to some overstatement, is on the list of unfriendly countries, so in the Liberal Democracy Club we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Foreigners Act, adopted in 1999, has been amended and supplemented many times, especially at the expense of the ten directives of the European Union and the European Union regulations. This path is also transposed into law by the three directives of the European Union of December 2008 and 2009. Two Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council from 2009 and 2010 will also be taken into account. Thus, the main objective of the new law is to align the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order governing the same matters in the European Union. Within this, the following issues will be addressed: harmonisation in the field of visa operations, protection of foreigners in removal procedures, protection of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment, reduction of administrative barriers to obtaining residence permits and ensuring an adequate level of rights for nationals of other countries and their family members. As regards direct solutions to the law, these are: the protection of the rights of foreigners, which includes the possibility of voluntary return and the extension of the time limit for voluntary departure, the introduction of a blue card providing a single European Union document for residence and work; the law on a new regulation protecting foreigners who worked under exploitative conditions and allow them to stay in the country, in particular while waiting for a solution to the proceedings against the employer. The law is better governed by visa operations and the appeal procedure in this respect and by the rights of foreign citizens and their family members in relation to residence and free movement. With regard to the law that should allow the admission of one or two prisoners from Guantanamo, we do not see a particular problem in the Group of Unaffiliated Members. In particular, it is a humanitarian act to solve the fate of two of the unfortunate people who have been imprisoned in such a way as to think, without an accusation, without a proven guilt, and who cannot return to the environment they come from, because they could experience the cruelest fate there. Therefore, the adoption of this law is more important for us in that part that solves all other matters relating to the issue of foreigners, not that question that needlessly arises from the adoption of a well-prepared law that follows the announced objectives in its solutions, taking into account the relevant humanitarian principles, which is why our Group of Members will unitedly support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law before us today is, however, as we already know it from the existing law of 1999, and the proposal removes some of the shortcomings of the current regulation in the law that have proved to be in practice. The draft law transposes three directives of the Council of the European Union: a Council Directive on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals, a Council Directive on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly skilled employment, and a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. However, when the new text was drafted, the European Commission's guidelines on the free movement of persons were also taken into account. We are convinced that the transposition of these three Directives of the Council of the European Union represents a particularly higher quality of this law, as this responds to the current situation and problems in the countries of the European Union and, of course, in us. Finally, our country has co-formed all these directives within the European Union procedure. The proposal for a law on foreigners brings a number of other innovations, which represent certain reliefs or a rise in the level of rights for migrants, which we particularly support in the Group of Social Democrats. This is a "one-stop shop" principle and will reduce the administrative burden for a foreigner who asks for a blue card. Then he will have more rights as a foreigner, who is in the process of forcible removal, as he will be given the opportunity to leave the country voluntarily, while at the same time providing him with adequate legal protection. Protection of the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment will also be ensured as it allows a foreigner to obtain a detention permit and, at a later stage, residence permits if the foreigner is willing to cooperate with the judicial authorities in the proceedings against the employer. Olajsan will enter certain categories of foreigners, such as athletes, trainers, accredited journalists, economists, foreigners who want to be educated, family members of Slovenian citizen. This will enable all of this to issue a long-term residence visa, to enter the country and to regulate the first residence permit in the country. The proposal of the Aliens Act will also allow certain categories of foreigners to obtain their first residence permit and to service this residence permit in the country. These are researchers and students who, in another Member State of the European Union, have been authorised to reside in the Republic of Slovenia for more than three months, holders of a blue card issued by another Member State wishing to reside in the Republic of Slovenia for more than three months, and their family members, long-term residents and their family members, foreigners who are victims of trafficking in persons and victims of illegal employment, and family members of European Union citizens and Slovenian citizens. The proposal for a law on foreigners also extends the definition of family members of foreigners and citizens of the European Union, and the proposal for a new law on foreigners also introduces the novelty of granting a temporary residence permit to a foreigner whose residence is in the interest of the State for cultural, scientific, economic and political reasons. Specific proposals will be decided by the Government at the request of the Ministry concerned. Most European countries are aware of such arrangements, both in their nationalities and in their residence permits. Slovenia already knows the acquisition of citizenship under such a procedure. Hence, there is no reason not to allow such a foreigner to be temporarily resident in such a way. The current hearing has given some consideration to the valuable comments and proposals made by the profession and civil society, particularly the fact that the applicant further examines the comments and proposals of the Ombudsman concerning the issue of young people and family members of foreigners who are temporarily staying in Slovenia. Unlike most other parliamentary groups of this law and its novelties, we do not associate so much with the specific problem of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay. The majority view of our profession already stands for the claim that the current legislation on international protection provides sufficient ground for solving this particular problem. On the issue of combating international terrorism, exciting and unpredictable events are currently taking place, which are likely to have a sufficient impact on our decisions in this regard. The law will therefore support the Group of Social Democrats because we believe that it brings many very useful and necessary changes or innovations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The SDS Group will decide, in the course of its consideration of this Act, whether we abstain from voting or vote against a new law on foreigners. We have quite a few reservations to this law, which we will also present in the process of enacting the law, but we believe that it is in vain, because this coalition does not want to listen to the opposition's proposals, and it mostly despises and rejects them. It is necessary for this law to have binding and pre-eminent reservations based on past experience, namely, that a bad government cannot propose good laws. The legislation proposed by this government and adopted by this coalition is often catastrophic, harmful to the state and citizens. Slovenia also cannot resist the crisis that some countries have already passed or have not fallen because of the bad laws adopted by the ruling coalition. In Slovenia, however, the signs of recovery are still not on the horizon. The coalition is unable to deal with the crisis, regenerates the crisis itself with its own coalition crisis, and this government has long since lost its legitimacy. Therefore, there is a great question about what these laws proposed by this government in the parliamentary procedure are and will obviously be proposed until its dissolution. Legislation that arises in political agony cannot be good and consistent legislation. Our party, as well as the opposition, wants to participate in the governance of the country by means of laws, including coalition or government laws, but this is not possible. Our bill proposals are rejected, the amendments are usually not accepted. So much in the knowledge of all those who would want injustice for the state of the country, they also burden the opposition. Last holiday days, when you were walking under the banners, we could also read the words of the first president of the National Assembly, Dr. Frances Bucar. Among other things, he said about Journal 24, quote: "The current government is in exactly the same way as the Communist Party. All decisions are taken at the top of the political system. No one else can decide anything." End of quote. What Dr. Butcher says is true, no one can decide anything except this government and this coalition, and its decisions are bad. The principles that should be followed by the Aliens Act are in principle not bad. The question, of course, is how to bring these principles to life. The principles must be embodyed in the articles of the law. The explanation of the law states that a new law is needed, not the amendment of the old law, because of the new directives of the European Union. Directives of the European Union provide a framework for our legislation, but we tend to put an increasingly miserable picture in this European framework, i.e. bad laws. However, if the coalition is already able to write a decent law, which is an exception rather than a rule, this law does not, in practice, come true because of the collapse of the value system in society, which is the only thing that has succeeded the ruling coalition in this mandate. No great benefit can be expected from the new law. Slovenia today has no conditions to attract foreign scientists and top experts. On the contrary, we will continue to have a brain drain and a highly skilled workforce. On 1 May, the labour market was fully opened for countries that entered the European Union in 2004. Germany will release millions of people into its labour market in the coming years. Today, Germany has the lowest unemployment rate since both Germany and Germany merged two decades ago. Slovenia, however, notes one of the biggest unemployment rates in its history and at the same time the biggest economic crisis. In the border areas Slovenians receive work in Italy and Austria, where payment for the same work is at least twice as high as ours. This government has so far been able to open a market for doctors who come to Slovenia many times with ignorance or poor knowledge of Slovenian language and college in the Balkans, or in some other unlisted country whose quality is very modest, or with completed specializations that have been made in very strange circumstances. Supreme doctors avoid Slovenia. Under the Foreigners Act, the Government also wants to provide a legal basis for the adoption of prisoners from Guantanamo. This decision has at least two dimensions. If the prisoners in Guantanamo had been unjustly imprisoned and most were likely to have been, those who had wronged them must also correct that injustice. If one of the prisoners has committed a crime, he must serve his sentence, but with the previous righteous trial and with respect for human rights. We must ask whether the adoption of these prisoners is indeed in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, national interest is once again in some twisted connotation. They were once in the national interest of brewery that domestic tycoons could rob them and lead them to collapse, and today it is in the national interest to receive prisoners from Guantanamo. However, this government has never made it a national interest to grant citizenship to Slovenians who live in the Holy Land and who have difficulties in obtaining Slovenian citizenship. Secondly, the question is whether we really need to kneel before the United States of America and agree to their dictatorship only because of the policy of this government and sometimes almost already the pathological narcissism of the President of the Government, who would be ready to meet and photograph with President Obama to promise this and probably a lot of other things, which we do not know at this time. Many find that such acceptance can also be risky for the security of the State. Is it the responsibility of the Government to take photographs with the President of the United States alone if we potentially pose a high risk to the State and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Yesterday, the Slovenian government warmly welcomed the death of Osama bin Laden, and so was one of the rare world countries, the world governments, which used a harsh and unseemly diplomatic rhetoric that celebrates and welcomes the death of man, even if it is Osama bin Laden. Before that, of course, we experienced another disgrace with the friendship of our government and the President of the Government with the dictator and killer Gaddafi, whom our government had already forged into the stars on the eve of slaughter in Libya and mentioned as the great solver of Slovenian construction, especially the SCT, which is already on the verge of liquidation. Let me conclude, in the SDS, we will closely monitor the adoption of this law and participate in it, but we will not vote in favour of a law that should only be adopted so that the President of the Government can fulfill the promise to the United States of America that was made in the wake of the photograph with Obama. There will be no vote for playing with national interests and political corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr President, Minister, colleague and colleague! Don't mind if I talk about the content of the law as opposed to the predecessor. So, as we have heard in many opinions and also in the proposal's presentation, the proposal for a law on foreigners before us is, in particular, intended to bring the acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union, we transpose certain provisions of the Council Directive on common standards and procedures in the Member States for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals and the Council Directive on conditions of entry and residence for the purposes of highly skilled employment. At the same time, we transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. So this is this legal framework. It is not a matter of political agony that changes laws like – I don't know why – some people think. The changes mentioned above are extensive and therefore we are considering a new law. The most important novelty in this law is, in our opinion, the introduction of the European Union Blue Card, which represents a single permit for work and residence mainly for easier and faster authorisation – therefore, for highly qualified workers. Most importantly, it will be possible for a foreigner to arrange for a uniform permit to work and reside in one place, i.e. in an administrative unit. Thus, a new foreigner who is illegally staying in the territory of RS will be given a decision allowing him to voluntarily leave the Republic of Slovenia within a certain period of time. The law is also aimed at protecting the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment and the proposal is also further regulated by the long-term visa procedure, as has been mentioned several times. What we would like to draw particular attention to in the Parliamentary Group, the new policy, is, as mentioned in the Ombudsman's opinion, which, inter alia, points to article 49 of the proposed law governing family reunification and the right to family integrity. It is proposed that family reunification may not occur until at least one year after the alien has already resided in the Republic of Slovenia. With us as a guardian, we believe that this long period is in fact unnecessary because it is a matter of combining with young children. The Ombudsman further recalls the granting of a temporary residence permit which is limited to only two years. What bothers us is that the law does not provide for the possibility of extending temporary stay in the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the competent authorities could have a choice when such an extension can occur because we know that the cases are very different. There are also some comments from the Ombudsman, particularly regarding the treatment of juvenile refugees, which we really agree with in the Group. One of the uncertainties, as mentioned above, may also be that I believe in the Parliamentary opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, the procedures for obtaining these permits at diplomatic and consular offices abroad, the taking of biometric data and similar things. This is one of the things we would like to clarify in the legislative process. The possibility offered by this law to the Government, namely, that, if it were in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, it would allow for clearer, simpler procedures, in our view, not the main content of this novel. However, we can agree with some that the national interest can gain a completely different degree in a decade, because today we have also heard from these speakers that the ones who were aspiring to sell, say, a brewery to Slovenian owners, now regret their decision at the time, deny it, conceal it and, of course, pay attention to everything else, rather than to where it would belong. Thus, in order to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation, to introduce a European Blue Card and what else will we support in the first reading of the law in the Parliamentary Group. However, we expect that, in particular, those comments relating to the protection of human rights on the rights of minors, and so on, to be clarified more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members, all the rest of you are here! In Slovenia, in accordance with international treaties, foreigners have all the rights guaranteed by our Constitution and by laws, except those which they have under the Constitution or by law only the citizens of Slovenia, is enshrined in Article 13 of the Slovenian Democratic Constitution. Article 68 provides that foreigners may acquire property rights on property under the conditions laid down in the law, so it can be said that foreigners in our country have been adequately cared for since independence. The aim of the bill that we are considering today is to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union. The law guarantees more rights for citizens of the European Union and their family members. Certain provisions of Council Directives of the European Union, such as provisions on the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, on the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment and on sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals, are transposed into the law. Regulations of the European Council and of the European Parliament are also transposed and amendments to the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement and Regulation of the European Council, No 562/2006 concerning the movement of persons with long-term residence visas, and we therefore expect Members of the Slovenian People's Party to make sufficient provisions for the new law to prevent illegal employment of foreigners as we have witnessed in construction companies in the case of workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would also like to reiterate that in this law it is necessary to regulate controls to prevent illegal immigration and employment of foreigners, as we have warned in the Employment of Foreigners Act, because we are convinced that only the law on prevention of black work cannot regulate this effectively enough. We also expect that the law will ensure greater transparency and, in particular, control over the immigration of foreigners and the acquisition of visas and residence permits for foreigners, as prevention is increasingly effective and cheaper than dealing with illegal immigration later. We support the fact that this law gives the legal basis for an illegal alien in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to issue a decision by which he will be required to voluntarily leave the Republic of Slovenia within a certain period of time, except in exceptional cases where there is a danger of escape and the possibility of establishing a ban on entering a foreigner who has not voluntarily returned within the time limit set and was to be removed from the territory of Slovenia. With regard to the protection of the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment, however, the provisions should be carefully designed, as they may be some type of facilitating circumstances and may therefore be an incentive for foreigners to do black work so that they can easily obtain a visa to stay and work in Slovenia. It is necessary to examine the consequences well so that such provisions do not have exactly the opposite effect from what they want; therefore, they will lead to more employment and residence of foreigners on the black side in Slovenia. It seems to us that we understand the Ombudsman's proposal and support her proposal to Article 49 in order to allow the integration of families or parents with unmarried minors without the conditions of one year's stay. It is unreasonable for families or children of foreigners to be restricted under all liberalized conditions. Even with regard to the right of unaccompanied children, we agree that they must have a special careful treatment, but it raises questions as to how many cases and in which children without parents can appear alone as foreigners, how foreign children can come to us — how this is possible. While we agree that it is necessary to check that conditions exist before returning, especially a minor child, and to see if he has anywhere to return. Of course, the same applies to all foreigners. However, anything must be done to prevent illegal entry by foreigners at the border. With regard to the possibility of hiring foreigners and the introduction of a blue card, obtaining residence permits for highly qualified workers, we believe that it is necessary to re-qualify domestic unemployed workers and, above all, to educate young people in order to have enough of our highly skilled workforce. That is why we have tabled amendments to the Act on Scholarships to propose the return of student scholarships, the facilitation of multi-family scholarships and more opportunities for exceptional students. It is not reasonable, for the Slovenian People's Party, it is even unacceptable that we restrict citizens' access to education while at the same time facilitating access to our jobs for foreigners. From this point of view, both laws, although necessary, are unacceptable for us, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party hope that the Government or the coalition will listen to these comments from today's debate and will coordinate both laws accordingly. We also propose a guardian in this law: every year a register of the needs of highly qualified foreign labour must be drawn up and home-grown experts should always be given priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Get Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The new law regulates the issue of interest in obtaining a residence permit and allows the admission of prisoners from Guantanamo. The text of the new law should address the issue of national interest in obtaining a residence permit issued to a foreigner if it is in the interest of the State for cultural, scientific, economic and political reasons. While the proposed law is not new in Europe, when it was adopted by neighbouring countries they certainly did not have in mind the import of criminals and terrorists, but only related to the part where it concerns the interests of individual ministries to fill a gap that should complement expertise and knowledge. This is certainly not and cannot be the interest of the government authority that decides whether such a national interest exists for the temporary residence of such a foreigner in Slovenia. On the basis of the decision of the government, the foreigner obtains a temporary residence permit in Slovenia with all assurances that he will have sufficient means of subsistence and health insurance. According to the representative of the Government, the legal basis for entry and residence of persons from Guantanamo in Slovenia is established. As we see, it's not about one person, it's about more people, which means we're going to import quite a few international terrorists for whom Americans have special criteria. For our government, however, there are only poor people who do not have a home and who have been imprisoned in Guantanamo after all, yet they do not want to return to their own country or stay in America, which was until the recently promised land. For our President of the Government, this is a humanitarian issue, as it is expected that by returning to any of the countries from which they came, they will be exposed to further torture and threats. I think that those responsible in the country do not behave responsibly and cannot assess what this means for a country that already has in its midst a number of organised criminal societies that are already internationally connected. With these people, crime will only increase in the direction of terrorism, which will be strengthened by relatives imported from Guantanamo. However, this number is not limited and, as we see under the proposed law, staying is also guaranteed at the expense of the country. The law brings a number of new developments at the level of migrants' rights and in the European Commission's guidelines on the free movement of persons. What service do NATO and America do to European countries? Very bad, the case of Italy and France. We will certainly learn something from the Libyan case, from which people are blackmailed and as refugees, refugees are resettling European countries, which we will not be able to avoid in Slovenia. Interestingly, no one escapes to America where they are considered to be great advocates of human rights and the police of the world. A pilot project is also being introduced to remove certain barriers to employment of workers. Directives on the return and compulsory removal of foreigners, including those who illegally reside in the territory of Slovenia, are also being elaborated. The law will be more specified in the part where it speaks of illegal employment of foreigners, but also acts corruptly as it allows for a residence permit if a foreigner is willing to cooperate with the judicial authorities in proceedings against the employer. There has also been no problem for athletes and economists so far with obtaining visas and residence permits, but, as we can see, there are several articles in this law that have written down definitions that reject the law. As we can see, there was only one purpose of the bill: to allow the Guantanamo prisoners to enter and stay, as well as their family members, in all the care and at the expense of Slovenia in Slovenia for five minutes of glory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. He has the word Franco Juri, to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! It is known that Slovenia is among those countries that are not particularly favoured by the foreign policy. We have always been subject to legislation and administrative procedures, and all the procedures relating to allowing foreigners to come to Slovenia have been quite complicated. This has often been reported to us by the Amnesty International international human rights organization, and the Ombudsman also notes that despite good intentions, there are still some gaps, some gray foxes. In order to ensure a decent life for those foreigners who apply for asylum in our country, this situation will need to be ensured. We understand, and this has already been pointed out in the introduction, this law, as an important step forward, as it regulates certain aspects that have so far been quite inconsistent and have actually enabled some arbitrary decision-making to foreigners who did not have the right legal protection and the possibility of integration, integration into our society. A few unfortunate circumstances in the creation of this new law are the fact that it is paralleled by the Guantanamo story and that it seeks to present these changes only as an adaptation to the political need to help the United States Government and to address the issue of one or more Guantanamo prisoners. This aspect is certainly important, and I think that if we want to be consistent with our own principles and a positive attitude towards human rights, it is difficult to deny the fact that this disgrace, called Guantanamo, must be restored as soon as possible; also by allowing those who have been repeatedly, mainly as innocent, punished and detained in that disgraceful camp, to return to their own homeland or temporarily reside in countries where their human rights will also be respected. From this point of view, I do not think that it is a dilemma for all Democrats here to be united in finding that this situation needs to be addressed and that it is necessary to approach it properly as a democratic state. With regard to the law itself, it has already been said that we would have been more liberalized. We would take into account some comments coming from humanitarian organisations, in particular the Ombudsman, particularly when it comes to the issue of family reunification, family members, in particular when it comes to juvenile members of these families. I think that Article 49 is still weak, still restrictive, because it requires at least one year to realize this fundamental human right. As we proceed with the procedure, we will try to resolve these shortcomings in a different way. We'll probably also propose amendments, but in the grave we can find that marriage is good. The law basically simplifies procedures for allowing foreigners to come, and it regulates them so that it is also in our interest to allow some highly qualified foreign nationals, even in their own interest, to come to our country more quickly. I would also like to draw attention to some paradoxes that are still taking place today. For example, when the Vice-President of the renowned University of the Mediterranean Emuni, which operates in our territory, is forced to obtain a visa every day when she enters our country; not in the country where she resides, but in the country where she has citizenship, that is in Cairo, and where we also have the DKP, that is, the embassy. I think we should sort these situations out in a different way, maybe this law will fix it a little bit. I would take this opportunity to call on the Government and the Ministry of the Interior to resolve these issues as soon as possible, in a practical way and in our interest, to allow these highly qualified personnel, particularly those working for institutions that give Slovenia international reputation, to enter the country without such complications. I gave one example, probably there are a few more, I hope this will be an opportunity to regulate these situations. As you know, yesterday we were all impressed by the news from Pakistan's battlefields, the world got rid of absolute evil, at least according to official information, it seems so. Of course, we are not all naive enough to fall for all this information, and we will probably wait for the new release of WikiLeaks to understand what is actually going on. But certainly the fact is that we are in a very complicated period and before a very complicated scenario when we do not know how it will develop. This is why legislation is regulated, allowing transparency and also giving the government the opportunity to regulate the reception of foreigners – and not only about the issue of Guntanam and the consequences of the so-called fight against terrorism, but also about that wave of refugees that we can expect because of the unstable situation, particularly in the Mediterranean, where I believe that Europe will have to approach in a uniform, coordinated and solidarity manner. This is probably how we will have a complicated period; it will be better if we have regulated legislation and if we know exactly what I want to achieve and how we can ensure respect for fundamental human rights for all persons, our citizens and also foreign citizens who also need these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Get Vito Rožej ready, followed by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. It is good that the meetings of the National Assembly are public and that we will not need this WikiLeaks to record anything for history because it will remain on the tapes of the National Assembly. My colleague Miro Petek spoke earlier about the issue of how the coalition works, how everything goes from one summit to one centre – he took Dr. Bučar to avoid murmuring. But the coalition's factory statements, given that this debate on this law is under way today, are, of course, preparing the ground, because before 1990 it was the same story: the policy of its own, the company's one-party press. Here we have an article: Mohamed Garani in Guantanamo as a 14-year-old child, nothing to blame, innocent – of course it must be saved! That's how public opinion is generated, that's what I'm talking about. If we go to law school. Of course, there is no question whether Slovenia will respect European legislation, directive and everything else; Slovenia must respect this because it is part of it. However, in the case of that guarantee for three months, which the Ministry of Economy wanted to introduce and started propaganda here in Slovenia, if the European Union has said that three months is a guarantee and not a year, I remind you that all European regulations usually set the framework from-to, the lower standard is such, the higher standard is one, or the minimum standard is one, and so on. Of course, European countries are normally not prohibited from setting better conditions, at least as regards the legislation we are talking about today. This raises the fundamental question of whether the ruling coalition is right or wrong. In my opinion, he's wrong. There is no reason, given that Slovenia is practically close to Greece and Ireland, I do not see this here and I do not see the 200 million a month that we are in debt to. They do not report on this in Slovenia, but within this is of course the question; can Slovenia provide minimum European conditions or can Slovenia provide higher standards. The question of the so-called islands within the European Union also relates to this. Those countries within the European Union that offer higher standards that offer better conditions are becoming islands. It seems to me that some people would like to have another European place in Ljubljana, not Ljubljana, as it is today. I personally see no reason for Slovenia to go any way beyond the minimum standards set by the European Union. Minimum standards: yes, we have to respect them, but we are not in any case so rich that we can raise these standards and improve them. Let me remind you that more or less in the field of this foreign legislation in the previous government, we had very minimum standards and that this coalition has already improved them. What does that mean? This means that this government is being worked for the one who is generous, who is richer, which is not true. Probably minimum standards for foreigners and for everything that's coming, only after something minimal has been provided for our people. I'm just asking you, my dears, and it doesn't make sense to hide Guantanamo, nothing to "pallamute" about. See what it says in Article 53! "...for the sake of the interest of the Republic of Slovenia" and then "national". Connect this, you will see that due to the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia we will receive these people. Okay. I think it is primarily the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia that our people will have the minimum wage they do not have today. This is the first national interest – every government should be – and then everything else. Only then will everything else, when our citizen has the minimum living conditions, the minimum living conditions when he has a job, then we will deal with the others. Let us look at some of the other countries of the European Union. If I have the right information, what month is it: 17 were brought from Guantanamo to the European Union. I think it's about a month old. Of these, the vast majority of those countries had to take because they were their citizens: Great Britain, Germany, France, etc. Since they were their citizens, they had to be taken from the Americans, that's normal. I hope that you will correct me with better data and more recent data, but as I recall from this data, the situation is that only seven of these people have been adopted by the European Union countries so far, under the conditions provided for in our law. It means what? That they took it just like that, "dry," for humanitarian reasons or, as we say, for national interest? Please! With so many millions of people in the European Union and so many, go to Germany to see what is there. How many millions of Germans are, we also know, and what German gross social product is and what life is like in Germany we know about, and I think that Germany has accepted nothing more than two people. No more than two people! We leave here the "national interest of the Republic of Slovenia" – bravo! Yeah, what's gonna be a hundred now or what? Tell the Slovenians we'll take one or what I know. This should be said more precisely. That's one thing. Second thing, look. The law says that he will have to have — Article 26 also speaks of repulsive reasons. Those are security reasons. Maybe this 14-year-old won't be a problem. He's 14 years old and he's not guilty of anything. Okay. But this man will have to have the means to survive. Tell the Slovenes and the Slovenes, our citizens, that they will be paid by our citizens. Tell them that. We're gonna take so many people, it's gonna cost that much. Next. Health insurance will also have to be – tell us how much this Slovenian will cost. He'll probably have to have some more Slovenian classes at the beginning. Of course he'll have to. He's not gonna be able to live like this. We're probably gonna have to give him an apartment or what that's gonna look like. Some of the premises will be paid by the state – tell us how much it will cost. And not to hide in the "national reasons of the Republic of Slovenia" – blah, blah, blah. Tell me, we'll take that much, it'll cost so much! See, that's the point of the problem. Then says the law "high-skilled labour". What's that? I don't know. If he's a 14-year-old, I don't know what he's done, I have no idea. In short, what is problematic about this is, in my opinion, that I did not say that I object to any reception, that something will not be wrong; but not to hide under the Venetian mask and be as beautiful as those ladies who walk around Venice for nothing – Mr Yuri knows this well – but to smile at the citizens, and to talk about the national interest for which we will accept them, but write at least an explanation of the law: we will take so many for the apartment, we will give so much for the health insurance, and so on. [[...]] Apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! No problem! Excuse me! So what bothers me is what's in the marriage; the fact that it's not written at least so that simple people understand it. I had to read the marriage myself several times to understand where they would be, and under which article they would put it. So, tell the Slovenes and the Slovenes, tell our citizens that we will take so much, so much housing, health insurance and so on. Say, not incognito things, our southern neighbors would say "outside the corner," bring things into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Vito Rožej has the word to prepare Janez Ribič and then Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, there is still a lot of use in this law of this syntagma of national interest. I was particularly surprised by the presentation of the opinion of the SDS Group when I could hear that it was no longer in the national interest that the Slovenian owners bought the Pivovarno Union, but that it was in the interest of some Taiwanese elites who wanted to privatise it, but, as we know and demonstrated, it failed. What was the role of the former Prime Minister in these tied sales of Mercator, Del, and so on, I would not repeat because the matter is too well known. In a previous reference to Parliament, I think 56 Members signed a request that the Pivovarna Union should be sold in the national interest to Pivovarna Laško. Have these SDS Members' signatures diminished? They're not! I think they all signed up for what they could do. Well, now, after 10 years and after an apparently flawed privatisation attempt, national interest is no longer so. I find it so hard to believe the talk of national interest from the mouth of someone who, after 10 years, has changed his mind. The national interest must be something that could survive for at least 10 years. In my opinion, it is in Slovenia's national interest to show itself and not only to show that it is also recognised in the international community as open, tolerant, democratically regulated by rules that are also in line with European standards, and this law is a law that allows this country to contribute to the correction of injustices – wherever possible – even in the international community, not only at home. For this reason, I do not see that this provision would be in the law enabling the Government, and not only in the case mentioned, probably in any other case. So maybe the whole thing isn't literally written like that and you won't find the word "Guantanamo" in the law, because the law has to apply to other cases. I think they are more important than the other content of this law; the one that allows highly qualified third-country nationals to enter the territory of Slovenia or the European Union; those who talk about the selection of family members; those whom I hope will be adopted in the next debate, who will talk about family reunification and will make the current legislation on foreigners in Slovenia – we must recognise – on the minimum standards set by the European Union, but only slightly higher, make the country more civilized. That is why I myself will support such a law in the first reading, and in the further consideration I will try to make it even better. That's what I think the content of this law is. If anyone wants to see something else, he can, of course, and the truth has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the word. [[He's not here.]] Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on foreigners, which is extremely extensive, and in the Government's explanation, the main purpose is to implement certain directives of the European Union. I think we can reasonably doubt that this is the main reason for this law. The history and the "beard" of this law is significantly longer and more extensive and is motivated primarily by political motives and even tighter, with some interests and some, as has already been said, by the President of the Government, that he was able to make his visit to the United States of America. We all know that the main content of this law and the urgent adoption by the government coalition is Article 53, its third paragraph. It's about the admission of so-called prisoners or not more prisoners from Guantanamo. We can say that the main cause of Guantanamo Osama bin Laden, which has been gone since May 1st. That must be a fact. The United States of America also reacted in a severe trauma that occurred after 11 September 2001 — from today’s perspective, as well as to the global public, mostly agreed with Guantanamo and treated possible suspects in a somewhat inhuman way. Of course, the later or present US administration realized that Guantanamo, as it is, is also a problem for the United States of America, does not bring even internal political points in the United States, but even fewer foreign policy points, and they have tackled this problem, which is now only an American problem through their own genetics. It is a global problem, but the United States could have avoided it if they had acted more prudently at the time when this prison was established or realized. I am also inclined or agree that in such a situation, when it comes sometimes to the mistakes of others, the humanitarian component must be assessed very strongly and also tried to solve it in a smart way. This is why it is not wrong for Slovenia to deal with this and with the solution. In the opposition, we opened up some of the dilemmas in time, some of which would actually be of this state interest, the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, in this regard, could be resolved so that some of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia could be realized in this regard, but when we opened it, the President of the Government on the Committee replied whether we could trade in humanitarianism. I wonder who answered that question. He himself, the Prime Minister of the Government, started trading for his painting with President Obama with so-called true humanitarianism, says, regarding the takeover of prisoners from Guantanamo. He was trading, it was certainly a fact, and in this trade he was successful for his personal account. In this regard, apart from the fact that we will come to some catalog of countries that we have accepted prisoners from Guantanamo, we do not know what has reached for Slovenia. Of course, it is not trade in humanitarianism if we advocate that Slovenia in another area receive certain ratings. For example, the export of aluminium for aviation to the United States is blocked because, in fact, our government does not know how to regulate what Slovakia and some other European countries have already arranged; I do not know if this or anything else. Basically, our exporters have fallen out of the American market, they can't get there, and even though I warned you, the government, for example, didn't make it conditional. Why not? If we're helping in another area, why don't the United States help us? So, we have an inoperable government. Secondly, even from governmental species, it has been repeatedly said that this problem of possible housing of these people has already been solved by the Law on International Protection and that the law would not be necessary in this respect. Then we have to ask ourselves if there are other reasons. What kind of trade does the Republic of Slovenia actually have behind it? Somewhere we've heard, and I think the information is correct that Guantanamo already had an expert group of the government that chose prisoners. There's nothing wrong with that, but why does the government keep it a secret? What is happening in this matter is that the entire spectrum should be placed on the table by the Slovenian public. I hope that the Government also has answers in its luggage to how the interest of the Republic of Slovenia will be realized. The interest of the Republic of Slovenia that we are a humanitarian country is legitimate and it is right to take part in this matter, but I wish to do something for the country in this catastrophic situation. Let's say our Impulse could export aluminum back to America. Highly sophisticated alloys for expensive money, where now the Slovaks, Hungarians and all of us are moving ahead and moving out of this market. Here, however, the President of the Government sees no national interest. Why is that, we don't know. Let me put it this way: the President of the Government traded humanitarianism in a somewhat inappropriate way, especially for a personal account, not at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia and not for humanitarian reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you. The word has magic. Sarah Wheeler. She's not here. The word is Rudolf Petan. Have Guido Kres, Yosoka Godec, Tadej Slapnik ready. Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! This law was announced when those confidential dispatches on WikiLeaks were published. It stated that our president somehow conditioned a half visit to the US President and a photo deadline for Slovenia to take over some prisoner from Gunatán. A few days later, Mr Pahor was somehow bending and declaring that this was not related, but that Slovenia could take any prisoner from Guantanamo and that it would still have to adopt a law, amend the law, and only then could it be done that it was not so simple. This is said to be the case, the Prime Minister of the Government himself said that the law should be amended, and all subsequent apologies to be able to do so even after the current legislation are simple blah, blah, and so no one believes us anymore. As far as people believe in this government, you can see in the referendums: there is 80:20, in individual areas it is already close to 90:10. 90% of people don't believe this government anymore! If that's why you're changing the law, then tell me, it would be so much nicer, you'd at least have confidence in people, and so you say this marriage isn't about that. The President of the Government, however, immediately after the release of WikiLeaks, stated that a change of law was needed. This is also what the American ambassador was talking about: I think you're going to change this law and go on a humanitarian matter at the expense of Good, what the Americans have done, everyone can have an opinion on it. [[...]] However, I remember – some of us have been here for a long time – that until Obama was the President of America, you spoke quite differently about this matter, but now you have changed the record because you think that this is your partner in the color of politics. But I think you're very wrong. This is not a humanitarian thing at all, as it appears, but it is a matter of improving the self-image of our President, as someone has imagined. I'm sure he didn't make it up himself, that's what his famous, fantastic advisors advised him, that it would probably be good for the image I don't know who: him, or Slovenia, or anyone. But it's a transportation project. I am sure that if such a thing were to happen, such a law would go to a referendum that you would lose it not 80:20, but 99:1. Today, we have been able to hear from the representatives of the Government that there is some respect for the guidelines of the European Commission and so on. I think that these guidelines of the European Commission have been supplemented by the European Parliament and I do not know what else to do, as much as it had to be done. But we have even found that Slovenia has much better legislation in this area, more favourable legislation for foreigners than the Member States of the European Union have. Better! If we follow guidelines, we should cut some things off, subtract them. We're so far away! To say that with these improvements we follow the guidelines of the European Commission is once again one of those matters that no one believes in you anymore. Today, it has been said by a government representative that "the law before you today brings a number of innovations that represent certain reliefs or a rise in the level of rights for migrants". Yeah, great! What is the law we have recently passed that raises the level of rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? That's great! Next, "games for foreigners who are highly qualified workers, the Blue Card will be obtained by foreigners in a uniform procedure, allowing for both residence and work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia". Highly qualified workers – nice. It's good to hear! But if memory doesn't fool me, at this point in Slovenia we have some 10,000 highly qualified people of the Slovenian citizens at the Employment Institute. At this point, we are talking about this moment – if this were to be four years ago, this would be different – but at this point, when we have tens of thousands of Slovenians, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, highly qualified in the employment institution, we would eventually, as has been said, be able to obtain some additional rights and give them more. Why at this point? Why at this point? Are you not disturbed by the ten thousand domestic citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are unemployed and also highly qualified? Next. It's a specific case. Our companies that contract companies from the European Union – we are also a member of the European Union – our companies that conclude contracts and then our highly qualified workers have to go to assembly in the Member States of the European Union – to those old, developed ones – are a million and five problems in how to do this. Of course you can come, but there are a lot of problems: you have to set up a company there, you have to commit yourself to paying contributions for what I don't know, probably their standards. You have to arrange a million things so that our highly qualified workers can come to the assembly in France, Germany or Sweden, because this is all in accordance with the law. And the people of another country need to be understood, because they protect their own because they are so much, I will say, smart or something else to protect their highly qualified, but not to allow them to just so, through open doors to others who will compete with the locals. That's amazing! Now it's just a flash, and now I'm asking you, since this law is bound to Guantanamo anyway, what highly qualified workers are there. They're probably highly qualified for a purely strictly defined area. Probably. But this has nothing to do with it. Today it was also said by the government representative that "the bill gives more rights to foreigners" – blah, blah. Come in. "The law ensures the protection of the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment, as it allows a foreigner to borrow" and so on. Go ahead and give some rights to strangers! Third option: "The bill also deals with easy entry for certain categories of foreigners". Furthermore, "in addition to this, the proposal for a law on foreigners extends the definition of family members of foreigners and citizens of the European Union" and so on. Everything's spreading, everything's getting easier! At home, we have 120,000 unemployed, and 30,000 students who are enrolled in another or third college, so that they have the minimum status to get the vouchers so they can survive. We have local experts, as much as you want, who have graduated from school, not just colleges, even lower ones, because there are experts in their field, and they're in the institution, and we're making it easier for foreigners to do a million things. It's official, and I agree with that, but it's usually a good thing that if we wanted to, in all the laws we've adopted lately, it was a good thing. She says it was a good thing, but there were ten other negative things hanging next to her. Some of these went to the referendum, and they fell. There's probably some good stuff here, too, but since it's all connected to Guantanamo back there, it's obviously a bunch of problems. Now, if we move on. Our standards for hiring foreigners, asylum seekers and all these categories, not to mention them, because I don't even know them, and I warn you, so that whoever is really an expert on them would not then warn me that there is such a distinction and such. I am talking about these foreigners, who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who will be opened wide to them. It is just that if we take only one, then this one has the right to do everything he does in his own language, the right one must have an interpreter. We have dealt with this in legislation a long time ago; however, Slovenian textbooks, I do not know what all rights and housing rights and the rights of movement and I do not know what else. It's all coming along. That is not the case – of course now someone will say that it is only for this category, because it does not matter. But if anyone comes from Guantanamo, one, two or ten, as many as he will — who will choose them, I do not know what criteria, what test he will have to take — he will have all these rights and will have to have them. Besides, I don't know if we're going to take anyone, or if we're going to be able to figure out 100% if they weren't convicted, is it just a suspicion of what he did, why was he in Guantanamo? Whether they will be able to move freely like all other foreigners, and if they do not dare, they will again have certain rights as to where they will reside. There are a million problems here, so I understand the Prime Minister of the Government when he said it immediately after that disclosure, because there will be a need to change the law first. He said it quite correctly. Now I just don't understand the administration in this government that says it could have done so after the previous law. Then we don't even need this law that extends the right of a foreigner! We don't need it right now, because we have 120 thousand unemployed people at home, including highly qualified professionals, from high school to college-educated people. They're either at the employment office or they're enrolled in a second or third college to have a status quo. Then at this point we don't need such a law and it's just sand in the eyes. Then talk about humanitarianism so that if the children are already with us so that the family can still come! Now tell us how a minor can come to Slovenia. Yeah, what do we trade with kids or what?Oh, my God! If the child could already be in Slovenia, parents would come! Yes, as far as possible, explain it to me! That's not common sense. Mrs. Potter, if you think you're the smartest, and insult others, if you ask yourself how this is possible in all this legislation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u31	My friend Petan, she didn't pick up, so please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u32	Yeah, it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u33	Yeah, I don't know. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u34	Yes, it is! Excuse me, Mr. President, I understand you've intervened, but that's what happened. People just don't get it. How can our child, for example, go across the border? What will they do with him — send him back and call his parents! That's a strange way to go. That's a strange way to go. This is possible only in such a law as is proposed by such a government, which has 20% or less support. For our people we do nothing or not enough, I will say nothing – not too little, but at the same time we allow foreigners who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not even the European Union, all that anyone could invent. That's not true! We need to provide them with textbooks if they're learning. Thank God we're learning, but the state has to provide them with textbooks! Now I ask you, for our children, the textbooks are not sure how much 100 euros for each class. It doesn't work together. When we have free textbooks for our children, for free, then fine, we talk. At this time, I stress once again: at this time. If this law had come at a time of conjunction — O.K., we would probably have viewed this law quite differently than at that time. I don't understand why you're kicking up that kind of legislation at the time. At this time, it's an inappropriate law. Of course, I cannot support such a law, especially because it is misleading. If he holds to what was written on WikiLeaks – and the President of the Government did not deny it to that extent – then it is a very unpleasant matter not to say a sad thing about a country. I would have understood if this had been revealed so that we could shut up and not sell it forward and — well, I will have to skip — by this law. What is most embarrassing is that we are now saying that this law has nothing to do with it if the President of the Government himself has admitted that it is true and that the law will have to be amended. And that's the law now. This is what is sad that the President of one country wants to affirm himself by taking a picture with President Obama and we will accept it. I would only add to what my colleague Jerovšek said: it would be better if the President for the half meeting and for the time frame with President Obama demanded that our products, which are now on the blacklist, should also be imported by the United States. That would be something else, not that kind of thing. I don't support this kind of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has Joko Godec. [[He's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Anton Anderlich. [[He's not here.]] Eva Irgle. [[She's not here.]] The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. After this discussion, which we have just heard, it's hard to go on and say that a person needs a little more concentration than anything else, It is true that some Members of the National Assembly are already quite a few mandates, but it obviously did not help some to know how to read laws or at least to know in concrete terms when considering a law, that it is only about it, but not about what else, of course, it does not judge. I'd only remember one thing. It was also completely inappropriate here to look at the Law on International Protection, because that law regulates a particular issue, which was also unwarrantedly mentioned in today's debate. Of course, we all remember how the previous government, in times of conjuncture, as it is called, dealt with this legislation concerning international protection. At that time, we who have been in opposition have always stood up for the view that the state of Slovenia should try to better regulate this situation for, if I say briefly, asylum seekers, because few countries in Europe are such as Slovenia, which in its constitution has written down a whole range of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In our Constitution, we have copied all the rights and fundamental freedoms protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and other international acts in this area. I think we should be proud of this, but not that we are now trying to reduce these standards of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms under some very difficult circumstances. I don't think we have to put up with this. It should also be recalled that the situation within the European Union has changed considerably with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and that the Treaty of Lisbon has introduced some novelty not only in the field of foreign and security policy but also in the procedure for the adoption of common European legislation. It is also true that we have already participated fully in the creation of this legislation and that we have also committed ourselves to introducing these directives and regulations into our domestic legislation. And as far as the foreign law we're talking about today is concerned. We have also stressed in previous discussions, or in the presentation of the views of the Group of Members, that we are looking at the introduction of these directives of the Council of the European Union into the Foreigners Act as a special, new, higher quality of this law and that it is only right to do so. I don't know if we can argue that, for example, this new law also grants more rights to a foreigner who is in the process of forcible removal if he is given the opportunity to leave the country voluntarily. I don't see anything wrong with that, actually. After that, could anyone object to ensuring that the law protects the rights of aliens who are victims of illegal employment and that this foreigner will be able to obtain a detention permit and then, at a later stage, also a residence permit if a foreigner is willing to cooperate with the judicial authorities in the proceedings against the employer. We know what problems we have had in the last period regarding the employment of foreigners and also illegal employment of foreigners, and this is certainly a novelty that brings some new quality. Thus, some of these things cannot be disputed and, of course, what has been mentioned above is that all the directives and all the regulations of the Council of the European Union in fact set a certain range and that Slovenia can always decide on the minimum standard laid down in these Directives, because we know that certain directives are not such. The Council Directive on common standards and procedures in the Member States for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is already the first to be transposed into this law. In short, there has been a lot of simplification and there will certainly be a representative of the government in the end to respond to these untruths that have been said here, so I will not talk about it again. I would also look back on Article 53, because it has been highlighted many times, and this is the article that may be the only one concerning the Guantanamo prisoners. Nor does it argue that this law on foreigners is now in this legislative procedure because we want to obtain a legal basis for the possible admission of one or two of these detainees in Guantanamo. I would therefore also say that it is unfair to mention here the unrealistic data concerning the relationship of the Member States of the European Union with regard to this issue, so it is not only seven Member States of the European Union that have accepted one of the Guantanamese, but there are 14 such countries. So, this is the difference – Mr Gorenak is not now, but if he teaches in those lectures that he is making numbers and thus blurring things out, then I believe that he also does not know what they should be, what they would be, what those highly qualified workers would be. Even when it comes to this question of how many and what highly qualified workers we will receive, of course, it is not a situation where high-skilled workers come from everywhere and occupy jobs where our highly skilled workers are waiting. Of course it is not such a situation, so it is also incomprehensible and unacceptable such deception, because people listen to us and say: for indeed, why would we make it easier for highly qualified workers from abroad to work with us, but if we have so many highly qualified citizens who do not get a job? But of course, it is also a matter of this problem that some or others cannot read laws, as I said before, whether they do not want to read laws, or whether when we talk about foreign law, they talk about Laško Brewery and tycoons. As we say, in our Group of Members, we consider this law to be good. We have stressed the need to take into account, or at least consider, some other comments and proposals, particularly those of the Ombudsman, who has particularly taken account of the problem of minors and family members. So we don't wonder if a stranger who is a minor can even come here. You know, there's a whole series of things involving minors, for example, let me say at least one of the worst things that can happen to a minor, which is trafficking in human beings. And with us, let's not close our eyes, there's also some human trafficking going on. So, we will support the law, but we expect that the proposer will continue to grant specific provisions in further procedures, which may indeed require additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Please, mag. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It seems somewhat unfair to me that today, when we talk about a new law on foreigners, we devote a large part of our time to a provision or one of the paragraphs of one article in the law that speaks of legal possibilities for regulating the status of persons, including from Guantanamo, given that the law brings many novelties, reliefs and raising standards to foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the reason for the amendment of the law or the new law on foreigners was not the implementation of the provision that Slovenia could adopt a prisoner from Guantanamo, but that the reasons for the amendment of the law were mainly in the implementation of the three European directives. The implementation of the European directives, especially when we are talking about common standards and procedures, of course, is the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia and, under this responsibility, the Republic of Slovenia is already somewhat late. In fact, Council Directive 2008/115, which deals with common standards and procedures in the Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals, provides that 24 is the time limit for transposition. 12. 2010, with the exception of one Article setting the time limit of 24. 12. 2011. Slovenia has already been warned by the European Commission because of the time-consuming transfer. It is also true that the changes to the law did not begin on the day the general discussions on Guantanamo prisoners began. We started to prepare the law in 2009, but mainly due to its complexity in content, inter-ministerial coordination lasted for quite a long time. Some of the differences mentioned today between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the understanding of the concept of the law on foreigners. The following Directive, which deals with the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment, lays down the time limit for transposition of this Directive 19. 6. 2011 and he's right outside the door. And the next directive, which deals with minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals, sets a deadline for implementation on 20 July 2011. These are the main reasons why we have joined in amending the law. However, since the amendments made by these Directives are so extensive that implementation with the amendment of the law alone could not be implemented, it was necessary to prepare a new law in its entirety. When we talk about the third paragraph of Article 53, which stipulates that a temporary residence permit shall also be issued to a foreigner whose residence in the Republic of Slovenia is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, we are not only talking about Guantanamo, of course, but it is a general legal basis which allows him, in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to determine that there is a national interest in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to issue a residence permit. Such national interest may also be for cultural, scientific or other reasons and not only for political reasons. There were also some speeches on the members of the European Union that had already decided to take up prisoners from Guantanamo. The latest information available to us is that 12 Member States have already accepted persons from Guantanamo, and in addition to 12 Member States, Switzerland, Albania, Georgia, Bermuda. A total of 37 people were admitted. Only Britain accepted 9 of its citizens and Spain received 2 foreigners of Spanish origin and one of Germany was born in Germany. Thus, it is not true that most of the people admitted from Guantanamo are citizens of the countries that have accepted them. We also talked about unaccompanied minors. In the European Union, about 13,000 unaccompanied minors were admitted to Spain alone in 2010, according to the European Commission. Most of the time, it's about smuggling and child trafficking. In Slovenia, 38 unaccompanied minors were asked for international protection in 2010. There has also been much talk about giving foreigners more rights than their own citizens; of course, this cannot be agreed on. I will present to you the information that tells you about the number of issued temporary residence permits for 2010. In 2010, the number of first residence permits granted by 2009 decreased by about 51 %. However, the decline in the number of first residence permits is particularly noticeable in the first residence permits issued for employment or work. The number of first residence permits granted on the basis of employment or work was reduced by almost 63% in 2010 compared to 2009. That the Government will not do anything to protect its own citizens who are currently unemployed, nor will it endure, indeed, given the analyses and data I have at my disposal. It is precisely because of a regulation adopted by the Government pursuant to Article 5 of the Employment and Work Act, which deals with restrictions and prohibitions on the employment and work of foreigners, that there has been a restriction on the new employment and work of foreigners in the fields of activities, businesses, occupations and also in certain regional areas. On the basis of these criteria, the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia shall not issue work permits. The Aliens Act does not provide a blank check for anyone, at any time and at any time, irrespective of the fact that they would not have previously checked the domestic market for the available workforce. As regards the extension of the definition of family members. A change in view of the current warning was necessary due to a warning from the European Commission, which warned Slovenia about the correct transposition of Directive 2004/38 on the right of citizens of the Union to free movement and residence in the territory of the Member States. In the case of foreigners, third-country nationals, the proposal for a new law provides that a registered partner, his children and parents who are obliged to survive, is also considered to be a family member, a partner with whom a foreigner lives for a long time, his children and parents who are obliged to live. And the extension of family members to third-country nationals in the bill itself was due to the expansion of family members in the European Union and Slovenian citizens. Of course, it's equality before the law. Something was also said about the capture of biometry at diplomatic and consular offices abroad. Once again, I must point out that this solution, which is brought about by the current proposal for a law, is nothing new. This solution has already been implemented in the current law, which was implemented in 2009, and the law is valid in June 2009. This solution, already enshrined in the law in force, is that biometry is covered by diplomatic and consular representations and a proposal that was rejected in interdepartmental coordination and proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, would completely change the concept of the law on foreigners, which was unacceptable from the point of view of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, consequently, of the Government, as it would bring new administrative obstacles to the procedures themselves, which, of course, individual government departments did not agree in the interdepartmental coordination itself. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you. All of you who have been reported for discussion and are present have already received the floor. I ask, however, because the time for discussion is still available, whether anyone else wants to discuss it. Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Five minutes. Mrs. Potrata, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Since I am a Member, I have been faced with the problems of those people who have been forced by living circumstances to leave their country of origin and find refuge in one of the European countries. I am referring to the wave of refugees from the former republics of Yugoslavia at the beginning, and to the last waves of refugees in the near past. There is something in common with all these developments; on the one hand, we recognize people's right to seek better living conditions and to protect their lives, and on the other hand, we find even a number of reservations or concerns when, as citizens of one country, we find ourselves in a situation where someone should be offered shelter. Slovenia is not one of those countries that would have a very wide open door as regards asylum policy. If we reviewed the number of granted asylums after each year, we would see that it is quite a demanding business to obtain asylum status in our country. The amendments to the law we are talking about today are, therefore, particularly in the light of the resolution of those problems related to the uncertainty of the most vulnerable groups. Here I am responding to the recommendations of the Ombudsman and NGOs, which call for the amendment of section 84 of the law in the legislative procedure so that it is more favourable for minors. It is now possible to read in the media that in 2010 785 illegal refugees, 133 of them minors and 133 of them 26 unaccompanied minors, entered Slovenia. I agree with all those who say that common sense is difficult to accept such facts that minors enter a foreign country without their parents. But there are many other challenges to human reason, and this does not dissuade us from trying to regulate such situations properly so that vulnerable groups of people are protected. When I was a member of the Permanent Delegation of the State of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and when we discussed migrants in Parliament, and in particular children, it was always a strong message that there was always a need to act without shifting the burden to another country and thereby reducing the security of the individual. In particular, I think of those minors and all the other persons who are victims of trafficking in human beings, but their legislation, because it was such that they could be returned to a third country, was to determine what the situation in that country was, often, very pervasive and the person was returned to the circumstances before which he either fled or was removed from the environment. Well, that's not the only thing that seems to me to be well resolved in this marriage, so I intend to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. In order to return to the debate, I was particularly encouraged by the sacred forgiveness with which my colleague Petan discussed this issue. Simplifications that we witnessed and things were mentioned in the same breath of common sense that I, unfortunately, did not perceive in this debate. If we already believe that there are 10,000 highly qualified Slovenians who are unemployed, but I think that the exact figures would show that the vast majority of the unemployed are not highly educated, we should look at the structure of these unemployed and whether there are jobs for the unemployed in Slovenia. I also know from my own experience that there is not much demand for high education from philosophy and sociology in Slovenia, but these are now problems of poor structure of Slovenian higher education since the independence of all governments, when all governments have offered this as the option of one social buffer, a shock absorber, but no one has seen whether these are really the profiles that the Slovenian economy and public administration and non-economics will need for the future. I am convinced that, at least in the case of this Blue Card, the purpose of the European Union is to address those highly qualified profiles that are lacking, which the economy needs, because if not, a person cannot even get a job and this high education does not help him much, as it saves him in one place of work and residence. The thing is not so simple that someone with a doctorate will imagine living in the European Union and living in the European Union no matter what his doctorate is. This is one of these simplifications. Another is that we give all the benefits to foreigners and not to our own citizens. One of the novelties of this law that we are considering is that it protects the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal business. We have recently had a law here called the Law on Prevention of Employment and Working in Black, which speaks of Slovenian citizens, which states that if an inspection reveals that an employer employs a worker in black, the employer is obliged to provide a worker with permanent employment. That is how we protected the rights of Slovenian citizens. What have Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party done? They signed under a request for a referendum for such a law that guarantees rights. And what are their Members doing today? Rohnija from these speakers that what we do to Slovenian citizens compared to foreigners. We give them the same rights in certain areas where this is possible. Why, however, does the Slovenian Democratic Party not want those working in black to be given regular employment, but let them ask themselves how and what they should assess for themselves. Holy forgiveness is also a question of how it is possible for children to travel alone around the world without their parents' escort. Where do we live? Doesn't anyone remember 15, 20 years ago what happened to us? Who was sitting on the last bus that drove from besieged Sarajevo? Guys like me who are capable of carrying a gun? No, kids! Moms were there? Mostly not because they weren't left behind. Those buses were the last ones to get out. In most cases they went to some relatives in Bosnia, perhaps Croatia. A lot of these people came here, to Ljubljana. Here they went to high school, they went to study, they are a work today, they are citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but if they are not, they are certainly fathers and mothers of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Such cases are also, as we have heard from a colleague of Purity with fresh numbers, and it is uncivilised, inhumane to speak in such a way about such delicate matters for my terms. Thousands of human destinys, which ended happily in Slovenia, ended exactly this way. Children came here without a parent’s escort; therefore we accept this law, even for these cases; so that the human state, that we will have a face, that if we sell weapons for five times the same country, we will get the children to safety, in a way that is appropriate. This is the true content of this law, everything else can be floscules and with common sense, which has been mentioned since then, have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u44	In this debate, I am particularly disturbed by the fact that opponents of the law constantly try to prove that this law systematically regulates the way in which Slovenian substances are exploited and consumed by some foreigners, by some third-country nationals, and this is not only a material matter, but also another degradation of Slovenia, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. When we talk about human rights and certain civilisational gains in developed countries, it is not about citizens and others, who are supposed to be just a burden, that is, as if they were not people like all of us. How would you like to talk to those who want not only because they want to go with the belly behind the bread from the Republic of Slovenia to another country who want to continue their professional, cultural or not know which mission they have chosen, the desired destination is in a country of the European Union, or in the United States, or anywhere else, they would come before this office in that country and they would say, "No, you are a foreigner, you have nothing to do. You are second-rate to us and we will not allow you to do so." I understand this discussion in a way that tries to prove to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that they are at risk, first of all the government that proposes stupid laws, then they are threatened by some foreigners who come alone, regardless of what they are doing for businesses, by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, those tasks that are on calls that are for the needs of citizens and citizens and for what we need in general. However, do we live in different circumstances, in different countries, in different beliefs about what is going on around us? Is it not right to ask ourselves what has happened in the last three, four years in the Republic of Slovenia to workers from other republics of the former Yugoslavia, as well as to the wider, even for some foreigners who have worked or worked here? Is it true that we are trying to tell citizens and citizens that only if we are opposed to certain civilisational achievements – and what I understand mainly in this law – is that some of the knowledge, some of the knowledge that is common to developed countries, that it is transformed into a common policy, if you want, into a directive, and that this is summed up in the principles of general rules in individual Member States. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will still be in a significantly better position than any foreigner. From any address it will already seek status in the Republic of Slovenia, it will be essential for the better because it is home because it is a citizen because it is a citizen, because it gives rise to some other rights. For me, there is no human right that is divided into those rights, I am talking only about human rights, which are linked to the status of citizenship and the other status, because I do not want to go into some traumatic stories. Even in the last period, there have been quite intense discussions about how refugees and some other matters will be in the near future if this goes on. Nevertheless, I recommend that the government take another look at this part of the consular chapter, think carefully and harmonise it. I do not believe that this would mean a completely different concept, as proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I believe that this is an opportunity now between the first and the second readings, to reexamine it and what matter is taken into account. As in other areas, I believe that more constructive discussions will also be held by the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item — Defence of the final report of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political liability of holders of public functions in the preparation and execution of the damage so-called deleted. The report was submitted by the Commission of Inquiry for consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Commission of Inquiry to Mr Robert Hrovat for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its meeting on 15 May 2009, two years ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions responsible for the preparation and implementation of the so-called deletions in 2003 and 2009, in view of the suspicion that the results were officially disclosed to the political needs of certain public function holders; to determine the political responsibility for the inadequate implementation of the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision between the beginning of 2003 and October 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008, the consequences of which were also the creation of an obvious inequality before the law and the threat of the public finances system; and to investigate the suspicion of clientism or corruption of certain state officials; and to investigate the alleged abuse of the Ministry of Interior for political purposes from the beginning of 2003 to October 2004; and from 22 November 2008 onwards. The Commission of Inquiry held its first meeting. Seven. 2009 and she had a total of nine meetings. The Commission was composed of members and members: Robert Hrvat as President, Anton Anderlič, Vice-President, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Franco Juri, Mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Victory Jelinčič Tribal and Guido Kres. The National Assembly is in session 17. 2. In 2009, he resolved the mag as a member of the Commission. Franca Žnidaršiča, DeSUS Group is meeting on 4. 3. appointed Anton Urh of the Dessus Group. In the course of the investigation they were identified as witnesses: Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, former Minister of the Interior, Dr. Goran Klemenčič, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Bojan Bulgarian, former Secretary of State, Zarko Bogunovič, Deputy Director-General of the Directorate-General for Migration at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mag. Bojan Trnovšek, Alenka Mesodjec, Mrs Alenka Pšeničnik, Vinko Poličnik, Tadej Gabriel, Mr Dušan Vukko and Mag. Nightingale Fatty. They were heard: Katarina Kres, Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, former Minister of the Interior, Mag. Bojan Trnovšek, former Director-General of the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs, Alenka Mesodjec Prvinšek, former Head of the Migration and Naturalization Sector at the Ministry of the Interior, Alenka Pšenič, Director-General of the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs, Mr Dušan Vukko, Director-General of the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs. The Commission of Inquiry obtained sufficient evidence with the collected documentation and statements for the adoption of the final report. In fact, Article 22 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides that a written report shall be submitted by the parliamentary commission to the National Assembly after the parliamentary investigation has been completed. I would like to present to you the procedure, the evidence and the essential findings of the investigation and the proposal for conclusions, which we will also vote on later. Since there was no agreement on the findings of the investigation in the Commission of Inquiry, I will also devote the time available to me to a separate opinion, which is also an integral part of the final report of the Commission of Inquiry. The final report, adopted by vote, 4-3, is a reflection of the political relationship within the Commission, where the coalition, namely the Liberal Democracy, SD, Zares and DeSUS, is the majority. The final report shows that the Commission has not identified the political responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and that the Commission is concluding its work. This is also all that is contained substantively in the coalition final report. Everything else is statistics that talk about procedures, evidence and witnesses. As has already been said, the Commission's findings on the investigation were not a single opinion, and we have also drawn up a separate opinion, which is much more extensive and based on written evidence and statements by the witnesses invited to the talks. A detailed analysis of all documentation and witnesses' magnetograms leads us to conclude that the unwarranted increase in the number of so-called deleted persons in 2009 was due to the non-professional work of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior did not take into account the fact that the information system was not in line with data from administrative units on persons who had themselves checked out of the register of permanent residents. The Ministry of the Interior was aware of this fact only during the course of the parliamentary investigation, and the real number of so-called deleted persons is 18 000 305 and not 25 000 671, according to known data. This higher number was unjustifiably brought to the attention of the domestic and foreign public. Due to the legal consequences for individuals and the country and the relationship to human rights, it is essential that the Ministry of the Interior make a nominal identification of 7 000 366 persons, as far as they are being led by too many of the so-called deleted persons. According to Mr Jelinčič, Mr Kres and I, human rights and the fulfilment of the constitutional duties of the State cannot depend on the assumptions of the administrative authorities, but on accurate and indisputable data or facts. We therefore propose four conclusions in a separate opinion. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall carry out a review of all administrative decisions issued relating to the status of so-called deleted persons within six months of the adoption of this report. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up an analysis and report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on how reliable data from electronic records are as a basis for issuing administrative decisions within three months of the adoption of this report. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the reasons for the non-compliance of data on so-called deleted data from 2002 to 2004 on the number of so-called so-called deletions within the mandate of the Government 2008 to 2012 and on the causes of non-professional and non-disclosure work by the Ministry of the Interior within three months of the adoption of this report. That's a fourth conclusion. The final report shall be sent to the High Prosecutor's Office as a statement of the suspicion of the offence of performing the work of the bride by means of a proposal to verify in the investigation whether the work carried out by the bride resulted in damage to the State budget and whether the elements of the intention were to show the number of so-called deleted more than the data available to the Ministry of the Interior. To conclude, I would like to say that the work of the Commission has taken place without delay that we have received excellent professional and administrative assistance, for which I sincerely thank the colleagues on behalf of the entire Commission. Thank you also to all members and members of the Commission for the proper work they have done. Finally, the vote will show what our relationship with human rights really is: will we blindly believe Minister Katarina Kresal or will we finally begin to address the issue of so-called deleted persons individually, of course with a name identification? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Parliamentary Commission has drawn conclusions on the so-called deleted and, consequently, the conclusion on the political responsibility of the public function holders responsible for preparing the implementation of the figures in 2003 to 2009 in a rather short period of time. The Commission notes that it is not possible to record the performance of the bride's work and the intentional display of the higher number of deleted. Of course, then we rightly ask ourselves why so many unproductive debates and severe blood in the National Assembly and why it simply did not follow the statements of those who dealt with such a problem in 1991 and 1992. Who, in fact, had an interest in showing the matter differently than it was actually true? Last but not least, who actually benefited from this? It is certainly not a random period of 2003-2009, but it is necessary to look at the matter more comprehensively, since it was not detected between 1992 and 1997. The Basic Constitutional Charter stated that citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia with permanent residence in Slovenia have the right to Slovenian citizenship under article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The procedure was very simple and under this law 170 000 inhabitants acquired Slovenian citizenship by 26 February 1992. And who was involved? For those who sensed belonging to their own nation and the Republic of which they were from. They were at the crossroads of what to do, but it was only their personal decision. It is not possible to tell Slovenia that it has not been taken care of and ensured that everyone could not obtain documents, as has been reported by deleted documents. It is therefore right to recall the beginnings after the independence of Slovenia. Slovenia was the first to save citizenship in a unique way in terms of success on the basis of internal administrative rules, which is entirely in line with international law, and this was also confirmed in 1996 and no one denied it. Relations between the new countries have deteriorated and are also complicated, as the legislation adopted in December 1991 and February 1992 has substantially changed the situation. Within a certain marriage period, 170 thousand individuals acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. About 30,000 gained the status of a foreigner with permanent and temporary residence, all of whom, by voluntary decision. The conditions for obtaining citizenship were very simple: they must be in Slovenia and apply for citizenship at the time. The status of a foreigner was granted to one who did not want citizenship but chose a less permanent status, and he chose another environment for the centre of life interests, which he also had to play a role in. The new status in the newly created country has regulated more than 10% of the total population of the Republic of Slovenia without complications. It has been known and known all the time how one or the other status could be acquired. Everyone also knew for sure that this was a completely new country where the rules applied as in all other European countries. Their decision must have been decisive and subjective for each of them, and in most cases their relatives were also decisive. It was only by conscience and belonging to the State that each individual made a decision, and religious affiliation played a decisive role. There were no guarantees for a better tomorrow. As events unfolded, individuals’ decisions turned out to be good and or wrong. Time has proven its purpose. Existing problems in many cases have forced people to reconsider where and how they will live and try to change their original decision. However, there must have been new conditions in the decision-making process, which is all too simple, since in this case it is Serbian officers who were threatened with active participation in the former Yugoslavia's battlefields or to arrange for their stay status in Slovenia's newly created country. In 1993 the Council of Europe experts considered that the legislation was in line with all the then established standards for the regulation of status and citizenship in cases of succession of countries. The same applies to the Commission of Human Rights in the United Nations Organization in Geneva, which, following its consideration of the 1995 report, found compliance with all necessary laws and standards without commenting on the presence of representatives of other successor countries, and also confirmed by the United Nations Committee on Legal Matters. The management of the administrative authorities in these matters has been lawful all the time, so it is incorrect to speak of any irregularities by the State and its authorities. However, the cycle of stories, which has been repeated, has been produced by policy in Slovenian public space for years, and will also have to be held accountable by those who have always believed that legislation, which is applicable and must be implemented in accordance with the rules, has been valid and must not be amended in return over the years. The laws went smoothly through the parliamentary procedure, both the travel documents law, the state border law, the foreign law and the citizenship law. So there was no doubt about any irregularities. Days 26. 6. In 1991, the population register also hosted the population population of Yugoslavia, which later separated from the citizens of Slovenia and foreigners. No one was deleted but transferred to another register because it was simply a matter of non-voting aliens. It was a transparent record which indicated that persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia could not be in the Register of Permanent Populations. However, the personal file was excreted in a special file for the purposes of the foreign registry. Immediately, however, the sending process was called upon to persons who were found not to have settled the status and entered into force with 26. 2. 1992 provisions of the Aliens Act. Invitations were sent to all major administrative units, there was no need in the smaller ones because they knew each other more or less and the information was complete and there was no need. The problems were in major places because people did not respond to invitations, such as in Jesenica, where a thousand 600 invitations were sent and only 60 of them responded; in Sežana, 200 of the 400 customs officers of Slovenia left Slovenia. This is because people choose to belong to the nation and to the country of their own volition. All those who did not arrange for new documents, the old documents which were issued in Slovenia during the time of the common country, have been squandered because they were no longer in force, and it was possible to obtain a new document or certificate immediately if they wanted to. It is clear from all this that the State of Slovenia has taken care of everyone who wanted to become a citizen or to gain residence status. It is unfair to see why there was no automaticity in the transfer, for imposing on someone what he does not want is just a little too much for the rule of law. It would be right for those who decide on constitutionality and procedure to pause and reconsider before deciding and then write down what the people wanted and it was also enshrined in legislation. I don't know what it took to sit down with a handful of people who wanted to show the country of Slovenia in the worst light, at home and around the world, especially within Europe, even though the Council of Europe acknowledged Slovenia's compliance with all the established standards of status and citizenship regulation in cases of succession of countries. Of course, I wonder where our wisdom is. Is it true that badness, immatureness, impatience, and bad decisions prevail? Slovenia has always been one and the only, and if we do not recognize the Slovenians themselves, we are not feeling well in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u50	Your Honor! We had something in common with all of us, members and members of the Commission, at the conclusion of the work of this commission of inquiry, and this is: the direct responsibilities of the political function holders and the staff at the Ministry of the Interior have not been established or has not been established. There was no politically motivated calculation and there was no modification of data obtained through a review of the records and figures on the basis of which it could be concluded that it was an intentional act of officials or political officials of the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the count deleted. The fact is that it is necessary to apologize, and publicly, to all employees of internal affairs and those who have carried out these tasks, so to speak, under constant pressure and call, I will not say it directly to the lynch, but by requiring lists, lists of who on these occasions worked, who is the one who caused the alleged damage to the Republic of Slovenia, because the number of figures that have been deleted in the past decade has increased. These people have done, in accordance with the legislation, and in particular with the instructions to which we have also obtained, individual decisions, both by governments and ministries and those responsible for this issue, that they have faithfully fulfilled this and that they have also done in the final stage, what we have today as a general state-of-the-art behaviour erased in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy, we are pleased that, as a country, we have withdrawn from the front pages of those records that spoke of human rights violations in the Republic of Slovenia and in countless international conferences and in the annual reports of international organisations that deal primarily with the state of human rights in individual countries and around the world, we have finally received recognition or stopped treating us as violating human rights, and that they have also stopped writing in their recommendations that Slovenia should finally regulate this issue. In this part of the Commission, it can be estimated that in a relatively short period of time, even though two years may have been a long time, we could have done what needed to be done in order to confirm the suspicions or to reject them — the suspicions raised by those who demanded this commission of inquiry. Since it was clearly impossible to confirm the suspicions, there was also the absence of a hearing of some witnesses who, in the opinion of the President and those two co-signors of a separate opinion in this report, were obviously not able to obtain more information that could serve as a political clearing and manipulation of deleted persons, and it was right to stop playing with the fates of individuals, that it was more obvious that each case in question was dealt with individually during these deleted cases, that the fact that many changes had occurred since the beginning of this situation, that some had regulated their status differently, that some had unfortunately died, that some had been definitively erased from their heads, that they would sometimes assert this status, which, under all international conventions and rules, would have been regulated in the Republic of Slovenia, although it was only a moral satisfaction for the injustice caused by years ago. It is not about trying to point fingers at certain people today, individuals, officials, political parties, and so forth. There was a lot to hear, too, that it wanted to gain political support from certain people to support certain parties in political programmes, in electoral activities and the like, without making it clear to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that foreigners with permanent residence in Slovenia are not the ones who form political space with their active voice, but are part of the structured structure of the inhabitants of every country, as well as in the Republic of Slovenia. It is somehow symbolic that today we are considering the Foreigners Act and this final report. Perhaps it would be even better for the order to be replaced and, in order to do something backwards first, to adopt the final report and, as a traveller and as a reminder, to discuss very closely the issues of the status of rights arising from the law on foreigners, that these things cannot be weighed, they cannot bid on how much is worth, how much is at risk of the state treasury of any other matter in the Republic of Slovenia. It is somewhat disturbing that in this report, because this will remain in the archive, that, as the Commission has said, it has determined in a uniform way – and this is a sentence that is written in the same way in the report, which was adopted by the majority on the Commission, that there has been no political manoeuvres or whatever, but it does say that one report has been prepared by three members, but that the majority report is the fruit or result of the work of four members of the Commission. If so, then the question is whether the three had no other purpose, including based on the proposed proposals for conclusions. Somehow this is trying to cloud and the basic conviction and determination of the whole committee to minimize when it is still proposed that no report be obtained, to call for responsibility, to inform the prosecution that I do not know what. Therefore, we do not believe in our own part of the Commission of the National Assembly, and regardless of what the majority find in the democratic process, it is still necessary to insist on some of the indications to be recorded and to count on the favour of certain media and the public that what is in a separate opinion is what a minority thinks is right and should be stressed, but not what is found to be an indisputable fact that any politically motivated procedure in this number has not occurred. Once again, I stress that there is no responsibility on the part of public servants who did so as directed, in accordance with the rules which were in force at the time and were complementary. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support this report with the awareness that such a thing must never happen to Slovenia again, that injustices are caused to individuals and that they can be corrected for a long, long time. I hope that these episodes are now over and that with the law, I cannot avoid this, which we will adopt in the coming months, raising the protection of human rights, regardless of nationality, to an even higher level. And this also means for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who will be able to exercise their status as foreigners in another country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u52	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The task of the Commission of Inquiry was to determine whether there is a political responsibility for the preparation and implementation of the figures so-called deleted in 2003 and 2009 due to the suspicion that the published results were politically motivated. It is difficult for us in the Group of Non-Aligned Members to agree that he was lying in the middle. As has already been said today, things need to be looked at more comprehensively, historically, and not only at what happened in 2003 and 2009. The conditions for obtaining citizenship status were very clear and transparent at the time of independence. This was a matter of nationality. Or failure to regulate citizenship has also meant the loss of a permanent residence, and it is a legal dilemma that some of us have been discussing and discussing for 20 years. That's two areas. The main error of all these 20-year debates is that they do not separate these two procedures, namely two matters: citizenship and, on the other hand, permanent residence status. Many who have lost this status have only come to appreciate this at the window when they have regulated their living affairs, their children's problems with education, their partners, including their own problems with regard to employment, housing and requests for various forms of assistance. We have actually witnessed a number of tragic stories of people who were in front of the window, and they only realized what they had lost: not only are they not citizens, that this loss of permanent residence status meant both this and that and that – a number of tragic stories. Talk about enemies, please! If, after 20 years, you have not been able to indict and bring to court, then let us stop. These are mothers, and these are children who were not at fault for not settling this issue of permanent residence. I would like to point out once again that there were two procedures and that in the first case, when it came to citizenship, matters were legally clear, also administratively, procedurally guided and, if I may say briefly, transparent. In the second case, however, when it comes to permanent residence status, legal disputes and administrative uncertainties are also made. Many, including so - called foreigners, have not been erased from permanent residence records, and this is interesting. Why were some not erased? Why? Things weren't set up, and because some, unfortunately, still believed in some of Yugoslavia's myths, they didn't. But if there were clear instructions, if we knew clearly what to do, what to do, what to do with the lack of citizenship, that this would mean that, too, and this should be clearly told to people, and there would be no such complications, there would be no tragic stories. [[...]] Thus, the question of whether it was politically motivated conduct can be reversed 20 years ago. Perhaps, then, this dilemma was politically motivated: Let us let these people do something! Today, however, these tragic stories make it easy to say that we have transferred the records to another record. Yes, this second record was a loss of permanent residence. The loss of a permanent residence meant this and this, and these problems: in employment, in regulating the situation of their children, in admission to school, I do not know any other matters. Here it is possible to ask the question whether it may have been politically motivated conduct at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support this report, which we have signed by the four members of the Commission of Inquiry, because we are convinced that it is also in line with the actual situation and the actual state of affairs found during the work of the Commission of Inquiry. At the same time, in the Group of Social Democrats, we note that the work of this Commission of Inquiry and, in particular, its leadership cannot be said positively or much can be said about anything relating to the work of this Commission, because the Commission has simply done very little. The Commission of Inquiry had its first session of nine. Seven. 2009 In a good year and a half, the Commission of Inquiry held 9 meetings, all of which lasted just over 11 hours. Six witnesses were interviewed, many of whom were not at all in turn. The President of the Investigative Commission of Members and Members did not inform him of his intention to complete the work of the Commission of Inquiry before the Commission of Inquiry has heard all the witnesses for whom the Commission of Inquiry, as a whole, has agreed to act as witnesses before this Commission of Inquiry. Therefore, the decision on the conclusion of the work of the Commission of Inquiry was taken by the President of the Commission of Inquiry on his own initiative and proposed a report which did not correspond to the actual statements of the witnesses and also the conclusions he had reached on the basis of these statements were not credible. Thus, the Commission of Inquiry did not find political responsibility for the adjustment or politically motivated counting. It is precisely this investigative commission chaired by Robert Hrovat, SDS Member, that will be recorded in the history of our parliamentary inquiry as a typical commission set up for political speculation with the aim of a prior political discredit, especially the current Minister for Home Affairs and, of course, the entire government coalition, and at the same time, the Commission, for which the President was richly rewarded for a good year and a half for 9 meetings and 11 hours of hearings, and not all others who participated as experts. In short, it is a commission that has largely discredited the institution of parliamentary investigation, which should otherwise be a powerful tool in the hands of parliamentarians in the exercise of parliamentary control. It would be easier to say that it was a waste of time and money. It was more; it was an abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, which is something that all parliamentarians and the general public can only worry about. Of course, it was also a manifestation of some unacceptable and unfair attitudes towards respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, our Group of Members will support the report signed by the four members of this Commission of Inquiry. Otherwise, we express deep dissatisfaction with the work of this commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If there's any value in these, I can say, at least a little confused times in which we live in our country, then it's still human life or, if you want, human life. Each of us who belong to the Slovenian Democratic Party is, at least, unacceptable to the appearance of petty manipulation of human beings. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the report of the Commission of Inquiry, which I will present to you, is clear evidence that our country is also losing its credibility and credibility at the same time due to impermissible manipulation of human fates. When the evaluation of human dignity, for whatever reason, is granted to those government officials and officials who should automatically and unconditionally respect man and his rights, then something in the country is bad and very wrong. And that is exactly what the "wrong" is trying to point out is the text that I will present to you below. We all remember the moment when Interior Minister Katarina Kresal stated that 25 000 671 were deleted and not 18 thousand 305 were deleted, as was the case in 2003, when Dr Rado Bohinc was Minister. So this statement at the time indicated that Dr. Bohinc and his team were demeaning in their work and did not take into account all the records available while at the same time questioning the accuracy of the counting. How did officials and officials at the Ministry of the Interior do the counting this time, in fact, we all wondered how such an increase in the so-called deleted persons could have occurred. Did the number increase under the Katarina Kresal directive? Whether there has been a political alignment of the number of so-called deleted. Therefore, this Commission of Inquiry was established to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions responsible for the preparation and implementation of the so-called deletions in 2003 and 2009. Today we are concluding our work and we can conclude that the establishment of an investigative commission was necessary and justified two years ago. Why? On the basis of testimonies and a review of written documentation, which some apparently did not carry out, it is clear that the unwarranted increase in the number of so-called deleted persons in 2009 was due to the non-professional work of the Ministry of the Interior, since the Ministry of the Interior did not take into account the fact that the information system was not in line with data from administrative units on persons who had themselves checked out from the register of permanent residents. The Ministry of the Interior was aware of this only during the course of the parliamentary investigation. The first count of so-called deleted persons is, according to known data, 18 thousand 305 and not 25 thousand 671. With a higher number, the domestic and foreign public were unjustifiably informed, representatives of human rights organisations and representatives of countries outside the Republic of Slovenia were informed. The Minister of the Interior defended the interpretation in 2009 on untrue data. [[Then I'll explain why we think so.]] In accordance with Article 4 of the Government Act, the Minister responsible for the work of the Ministry shall be responsible. In view of the legal consequences for the individual and the country and the relationship to human rights, it is essential that the Ministry of the Interior namelessly identify 7 000 366 persons, as far as they are being led by too many of the so-called deleted persons. Human rights and the fulfilment of the constitutional duties of the State cannot depend on the expectations of the administrative authorities, but indeed on accurate and undisputed data or the facts of the ministry. It would be appropriate for the Ministry of the Interior to send a report to the National Assembly whether any form of administrative or judicial decision has been obtained by any of the persons who have been unduly guided by the information system of the Ministry of the Interior as so-called deleted persons or by manual records that have themselves signed out of the register of permanent residents before or after the date of 26. 2. 1992. Let's do it in one order at a time. Everything can well be explained why our position or position of a minority in this commission of inquiry is as it is. With regard to the number of so-called deleted statements, Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal stated on 1 April 2009: "For this reason, this time the methodology of the data obtained on the number of deleted was the most optimal, which can be offered by the current information system of administrative internal affairs combining those registers. On 24 January 2009, the Ministry of the Interior obtained statistical data from the information system of administrative internal affairs, namely the Register of Permanent residence, the Register of Foreigners and the Register of Mothers. Taking into account the above facts, that all administrative units should align the data from the manual records with the computer records, we took into account the data from the computer records only in 2009 and found that the number of persons who ceased their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia was 25 000 671." And he goes on to say, "I think the number 25 thousand 671 has already been told several times today. Yeah, that's the final number of deleted. Why do I believe her? Why would I say that? Because it has been calculated by those people who have worked this year and years, and I can only trust them with the only confidence: public servants in the Ministry of the Interior's professional services. They've done an enormous job, they've been working for three months to get the right numbers." The Ministry of the Interior therefore did not establish the number of deleted on the basis of indisputable facts, but calculated on the basis of several parameters to cover a group of so-called deleted in several official records. A year later, at the time of the investigation in the National Assembly, the Ministry of the Interior found the following: "In no case has there been a political adjustment of the number of deleted. Since there is no special registry deleted, the various registers are cleared by different parameters. Differences in statistics do not affect the resolution of individual cases. Since the data is checked in manually maintained records, it is therefore not possible to obtain the status of someone who has not been deleted." Now interestingly, "the differences have arisen because data in the information system despite calls from the Ministry of the Interior were not consistent with manual records of administrative units." This is copied from a document published by the Ministry of the Interior one year after the initiation of the investigation on its website. From statistics deleted in 2002, there were 18 thousand 305 in 2009 – 25 thousand 671. Who asked for a count of 2002? The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which used the data in its decision. Who demanded the count in 2009? No one asked for the count. The Ministry of the Interior wanted a more structured view of the population deleted. Rechecking deleted by different parameters — sex, age — gave different results with regard to the total number. This is all from the Ministry of the Interior document. And now there are major differences: in 2002 there was an old computer system and manual record keeping of administrative units. Data from computer records and manual records of administrative units had to be harmonised. The Ministry of the Interior then called twice on administrative units to do so. And now we come to 2009; this is written in a document of the Ministry of the Interior. 2009 – The new information system for administrative internal affairs, of course, was based on the assumption that the data in the new system are up to date. So once again: it was assumed that the data in the new system were up-to-date and that in 2002 all administrative units aligned the data from the manually maintained records with the computer record and that in 2005 all data were properly transferred from the old to the new information system. Thus, only one year after the initiation of the investigation, the Ministry of the Interior found that it had made a mistake and that this figure of 25 000 671 was not real. And then you say some people that this investigative commission was established without connection. I simply do not agree with this, and I will justify it hereafter. So, the fact that the Ministry of the Interior has overlooked or failed to take into account data on administrative units in the number of so-called deleted in the 2008-2012 mandate, can we rewrite what? To the bride's work at the Ministry of the Interior! For this reason, the last known number, at least for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is the number 18 thousand 305. Of course, the final number of decisions issued will be around 6,000 and no more. As to the accuracy of the administrative work, the official of the Ministry of the Interior, Dušan Vukko, who asked how the MNZ determined the number of those responsible, replied, said: "Enter, Mr President, there are so many. And you're going by individual parameters. It's a register, it's computer science, it's computer science." And he answered the question about the accuracy of the number: "Once again, do you ask me what the records are at this point? At this point, the records are accurate." - End of story. At the same time, Dušan Vukko did not want to be identified until the witness, the Council of Bohinca, claimed that he was behind smaller numbers, that he was responsible for the number 18 thousand 305, which the Ministry of the Interior found under his direction in 2002. The Ministry of the Interior should suspect, at the time of professional work, that something was wrong with the number of so-called deleted items. Already in the data on persons entitled to supplementary decisions, it would be possible to know and see at that time. See, in 2009 the Ministry of the Interior also had its own document, which we received from all the members of the Commission of Inquiry, which was held on 12. 6. 2002 signed by the Secretary of State, Dr. Bojan Bulgarian, addressed to the Minister, Dr. Rada Bohinca. In the same month of June 2002, the MNZ obtained information on 29 thousand 064 so-called deleted persons from the computer records. The document broken down data on persons whose status or nationality could not be determined with certainty according to the computer record of the permanent population register and therefore sent data to the administrative units on persons for whom they did not know for sure the status and received accurate replies for 16 thousand 913 persons. So this comes from a document we've received from all the members of the investigative commission. The MNZ also had to have data from administrative units for each of these audited 16 000 913 and therefore it is simply not possible to explain the laziness of the Minister and the responsible persons at the Ministry of the Interior to this data. In spite of the three-month work carried out in analysing the structure of the so-called deleted in 2009, it did not appear necessary to investigate the causes of the increase in the number of so-called deleted. And this increase in numbers was the reason for the establishment of an investigative commission and nothing else. Just that bigger number. Why did that number come up? How could it have happened? Before the start of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, a question was raised. The incorrect number may have two types of consequences: whether, according to the 2003 figure, not all those to whom this is due, or whether, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court, the corrections to the misdemeanours carried out in 2009 would be paid to those who do not. From the categorical viewpoints of both Minister Katarina Kresal and the Ministry of the Interior on the regularity of the number 25 000 671 published until it was established that the MNZ bases were not updated, there was a risk that the MNZ would issue administrative acts on the basis of incorrect data, which could lead to new complications. The confusion over the official bases and problems faced by the Ministry of the Interior is evidenced by their indication that the data gap is also due to the fact that the system is a living basis for the persons of the documents and that the data are being modified and supplemented daily. Information shall be entered on residence permits, admissions to citizenship and so on. However, in the case of accurate records, differences cannot be made because the problem of so-called deleted is only identified, but only this can be determined by the number of persons from 26. 2. 1992 transferred from the Register of Permanent Residents to the Register of Foreigners, irrespective of the subsequent change in the status of these persons. That's all we have to come up with. Equally illogical is the Ministry of the Interior's claim that there has been a difference due to a change in the base manager, since such a change must not change the data of any citizen. An illogical argument also points to internal problems in the Ministry. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are convinced that the last count was a major negligence in the Ministry of the Interior, so we believe that the findings identified in the separate opinion are also accurate and stem from the testimony and from the written documentation we have received. First conclusion: Interior Minister Katarina Kresal defended the interpretation in April 2009 on the incorrect number of so-called deleted. Number 2: Following the recognition or determination of the Ministry of the Interior that the information systems are not in line with manual systems, the latest officially recorded number of so-called deleted 18 000 305 identified during the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Bohinca. The actual number is, of course, the same as the number of administrative decisions issued. And those, as I said before, will be about 6,000 500, at least after the information we received as an investigative committee. Next. The Ministry of the Interior has undertaken analyses of the number of so-called works erased in the manner of the bride, as directed by the Commission of Inquiry of an unknown person, even though it had its own documents indicating that the number is not legal. This is based on the documentation we have all the members of the Commission of Inquiry. In accordance with Article 4 of the Government Act, however, Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, is responsible for the non-disclosure of the Ministry of the Interior. Come in. There was a high risk that the Ministry of the Interior's non-disclosure of data on so-called deleted persons under the leadership of the current Minister of the Interior would result in new forms of human rights violations or obligations of the state without a legal basis. Come in. The Ministry of the Interior, by electronic records, is unable to reconstruct the number of so-called deleted, and this problem could be addressed to a greater extent by individual treatment, whereby so-called deleted persons would participate in administrative decision-making procedures. So how come he didn't get his status back then when he could. The ratios between the number of persons who have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia following the dissolution of the SFRJ and the number of persons entitled to the supplementary decisions prove that the citizens of the former SFRJ have been duly informed of their status after 26. 2. 1992. This also comes from a document we have received from members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. The small number of supplementary decisions issued in relation to the number of nationalities allocated to the Republic of Slovenia to persons from the republics of the former SFRJ explains why the problem of so-called deleted was not present from 1992 to 1997, but only after 1997 did much more talk start. The Ministry of the Interior has also failed to provide a credible explanation of how the number of so-called deleted could be affected by the replacement of the base manager or the replacement of the information system. We did not get an answer; the minister was citing herself to subordinates, and the subordinates were not able to explain how differences could be made. Part of the policy, by inflating the number of so-called deleted before the domestic and foreign public, tried to portray the first government of the Democratic Republic of Slovenia as a mass violator of human rights. The negative effect of these actions was to prolong the resolution of this problem. The Republic of Slovenia does not have a sociological survey 20 years after the country's creation on recipients of supplementary decisions, why a smaller percentage of citizens of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia have not regulated their status. Between 2002 and 2004, the MNZ made a professional error because, despite the information that credible data on so-called deleted persons were only issued in administrative units, the supplementary decisions were not issued by the administrative unit but by the MNZ under the agreements. The Ministry of the Interior has made a professional error in the implementation of Article 8 of the Constitutional Court decision because the so-called deleted persons did not participate in administrative proceedings in order to clarify the reasons for the deletion, the eligibility of the supplementary decision and express their willingness to obtain the supplementary decision. The issue of administrative decisions by duty to so-called deleted persons without their participation in the proceedings results in the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is not yet aware of the real causes of the problem of the so-called deleted persons, how many persons in the status of the so-called deleted person have gone beyond their will and how many of these persons are actually seeking redress on the basis of their will. The MNZ has hampered the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry with a view to returning the transmission of data to which the Information Commissioners and the Supreme Court have found that information is of a public nature. The conclusions contained in the separate opinion of the final report are also necessary for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Unfortunately, the procedure is such that these decisions will not be voted on, but it is only right to list them again. We propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia review all administrative decisions issued relating to the status of so-called deleted persons within six months of the adoption of this report. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up an analysis and report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on how reliable data from electronic records are as a basis for issuing administrative decisions within three months of the adoption of this report. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the reasons for the non-compliance of data on so-called deleted data from 2002 to 2004 on the number of so-called deleted in the mandate of the Government 2008-2012 and on the causes of non-professional and non-disclosure work by the Ministry of the Interior within three months of the adoption of this report. Decision 4 of the The final report should be sent to the Office of the High Prosecutor as a statement of the suspicion of the offence of performing the work of the bride with a proposal to verify in the investigation whether the work of the bride was caused by the damage to the State budget and whether the elements of the intention were to show the number of so-called deleted more than the data available to the Ministry of the Interior. As for the final report adopted by the coalition, namely SD, LDS, Real and DeSUS, it is difficult to say anything smart, because in fact it is based only on two expected conclusions: that Minister Katarina Kresal is not guilty and that the commission of inquiry concludes its work. How expected and how transparent! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! First the report itself and the work of the commission. As has already been said several times today, this Commission has been created solely with the purpose and competence to identify the political responsibility of officials and officials in any incorrect indication or in the alleged increase in the number deleted. On the 6th page of the first draft, which was forwarded by the chair to the other members and members in order to harmonise the text, it was found that this political responsibility had not been established. Therefore, the key purpose of the Commission and the work of this Commission was clear and also ultimately verified, established: no one, on the basis of all the discussions, discussions, hearings that we had, could prove what had led to the establishment of this Commission. But where was this key entry recorded? It was written somewhere on page 6 of the report. It was clear, therefore, that the President-in-Office had in some way tried to hide this key finding from others and stressed those aspects which were difficult to claim that the Commission had any credibility. It was expected that, after years of debate and controversy in relation to the deleted ones, those who had opposed from the outset the solutions imposed by the Constitutional Court, who had tried to prevent the fundamental human rights of a significant part of the people of the Republic of Slovenia from being satisfied. This political option, this political party, by setting up this commission, has tried to prove that the responsibility for the complications and the situation remains on the shoulders not only of those who have been wiped out, in their opinion, to explain separately why and why they have been wiped out, and where and how they have become, but also on the shoulders of the current government, which is the first really clear, transparent and serious answer to the question that has been drawn as a stain of shame since 1992. To revive and refresh the memory, let us say that it was not at all for the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia who sought or did not want the citizenship of this republic or the new country which came after 1991, but it was the status of those who, without being aware of it, lost even the right to alien status with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's all this is about. Of course, it is normal that from the very beginning the SDS has tried to create a major confusion with the issue of citizenship and the issue of deletion, namely the loss of that minimum status, the status of permanent residence, which provides everyone with minimum protection in that country. Why this erasure has occurred, there is likely to be a lot of talk about it. A few books have been written about this, and I also recommend them to my colleague Hrvat. The Peace Institute has been very concerned with this issue, Amnesty International, too, and it would probably be helpful to him, as well as the analysis that has taken place, including the sociological phenomenon, why this deletion occurred. We all know quite a few people who have been wronged, and we know that stories are very different, different, but some common denominator is. However, the common denominator has identified the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has twice, with two decisions, clearly stated what the state and the government must do in order to resolve this situation. In accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, this government and this Ministry of the Interior have begun to issue – or Minister Bohinc has already started, but you have stopped it with true political intimidation and a referendum which was a shameful referendum; a referendum against the human rights of a minority. By that time, you had prejudged a solution that had finally taken place under the present government. This has angered you, and this is precisely why you have tried in some indirect way to burden both the Ministry of the Interior and the entire coalition for something that actually stems from your relationship or non-relationship with fundamental human rights. You wanted everyone to participate in this disgrace. In this committee, you dealt mainly with technical issues and tried to explain them in a political way. You didn't make it. And it is in this report, which you are presenting as some sort of separate opinion, which in fact contains the text that we have all received at the outset that this purpose has not been most successful. That's why you're dealing with numbers like this, why 25 thousand — no, 18 thousand — yes, and you're giving these differences that are still not explained and probably coming out of the transition from analog to digital recalculation, but you're giving that kind of meaning to it, and you're trying to blur the point of the problem again. But the point of the problem is that since 1992 there has been a huge injustice and that you are today trying to prevent these injustices from being rectified and to try in every way, individually, to hear even every victim of the erasion, as you, for example, wanted to hear all the officials involved in solving these problems. In this way, we would continue to create some public pressure, which in fact means opposition to solutions. Mr Hrovat mentioned an interesting figure – 6,000 cases are expected. If you remember, it is a party who today recognises that the problem is fairly relative in quantitative terms, but has recently talked about the billions of amounts that this country will have to pay for possible compensation and so on. Give just one example of where it happened, on the basis of which we can conclude that there is such a danger. You have intimidated the public and Slovenian citizens with misinformation in the hope that you will gain quite a few political points on that argument, which is the common denominator of the whole new European extreme right; and this is fear of differences, fear of the possibility of ensuring decent life for all and also respect for fundamental human rights. That is why we have identified ourselves as a finding which is clear and fickle and also stems from the competence we have acquired as members of this Commission, and this is that there has actually been no pressure, no political manipulation, no political requirement to tailor data. You also had to admit this, which you wrote very discreetly on page 6, and then you found out and stressed the unfaithful and unprofessional work. Since you could not prove the political scheme, of course you started talking about the bride’s work. But what a bride's job is basically to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions. Is this a bride's job?Oh, my God! For the first time, this government has happened that we have finally resolved this issue so that we can finally walk across Europe without being ashamed of the stain and the fact that we are not able to resolve it. Now you want to adjust here the purpose of this commission to some of the political expectations you have, realize that the terrain is convenient, because in the crisis there are such insinuations, with the taste of xenophobia always welcome and always very convenient, useful in some sophisticated way, very indirect. But when you talk about the protection of human rights and the failure of this government to respect them, you look in the mirror and you probably see your own image and your own intentions. Our parliamentary group will also support the report, which the Commission has endorsed by a majority of votes, but we will not support further conclusions, because it is only a political game against the serious and serious problems of both our citizens and those who have been erased.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u60	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we believe that such an investigative commission and all developments concerning the regulation of the status of former citizens of the SFRY who have remained in Slovenia after the independence of Slovenia, after needlessly fighting the shadow over our country, unjustifiably maligning the values obtained through independence and causing doubts in the international organisations about the regularity of our legislation. We do not use the term'so-called deleted' on purpose, because it is not true that the former citizens of SFRJ in Slovenia have been erased. We reiterate that, in accordance with the legislation in force at the time, they were transferred to the records of foreigners. We stress this fact because it deliberately distorts and forgets this important fact. Once again: the then basic law for the implementation of the Constitution and the law on foreigners laid down conditions for the treatment of foreigners and special, more favourable conditions for former SFRJ citizens. Several times to date, the law has also been supplemented and they have been given the opportunity to regulate their status in our new country, so it would be more necessary, for example, in the commission of inquiry, to identify the various reasons and reasons why our country still wants to show itself that our country should not act properly when it has asked foreigners to settle their status in the new country. It would be even more necessary to find out from the example of why foreigners did not regulate their status – that is, they did not respect Slovenian legislation – but still live peacefully in Slovenia and now sue and demand even compensation from the country instead of gratitude. The conclusion or report of the work of this commission of inquiry, whose report is before us, was expected in relation to the majority of which the coalition also has in this committee. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, although we allow the possibility that it was not a deliberate and malicious increase in the number of people, it was an unacceptable act, since already in 2003 the then Minister, Dr Bohinc, was repeatedly reminded of in the Slovenian People's Party, made clear and accurate figures concerning persons whose status had not yet been regulated or before the referendum, which clearly rejected the law on the granting of residence status for foreigners. However, against the will of the people at the referendum, the current Minister and this Parliament have adopted a bill to enable them to obtain back status, which is absurd as regards the principle of the actual state of affairs and the determination of facts, which are the basic principles of the Administrative Procedure Act, or even contravenes them. We keep doing this again and again, for this fact has always been heard – like the voice of a screaming in the desert. From this point of view, the Minister should have acted differently because of her official duty, but this is impossible to expect, which is why it can be argued that this is only a matter of the political promises of the left, which is known, and we have also been told by the affected foreigners. This should be investigated by the commission of inquiry. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret the fact that the Institute of the Investigation Commission has always been abused, has not achieved results and has not reached legal conclusions, and that investigative commissions are again used for political accounting. The report concludes that the Commission of Inquiry has not established the political responsibility of the holders of public functions for the adaptation or politically motivated counting of deleted. It follows from the partly conducted hearings of witnesses and the documentation obtained that it is not possible for political officials and servants of the Ministry of the Interior to report on the conduct of the bride's work and the deliberate presentation of the higher number of deleted. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we support the conclusions and separate opinions of the three Members who claim otherwise. In our view, it can be seen that it has proposed to Parliament a law that is not in accordance with our legal order or with the law on administrative procedure and a set of values obtained through independence. It is worrying that nothing means that the State must act in accordance with the Constitution and in particular in accordance with the will of the people who express it directly in the referendum. In 2004, citizens made it clear at the referendum that they did not agree to the granting of the status of aliens back. Doesn't that count for anything in our country? Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party once again urge us to finally make the only smart and definitive solution regarding the so-called deleted and constitutional law to settle this issue once and for all. The hope dies last, so it is worth repeatedly and again to stress this possibility, which was the only legal and true final solution. Above all, it would be the final end of the use of this issue for political accounting and, above all, would restore the reputation of the democratic and legal state of Slovenia. I therefore reiterate that we will support the conclusions of the three Members in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a final report from the Commission of the National Assembly investigating the number of deleted. In the DeSUS Group, we will confirm this proposal, as well as both of the conclusions we have adopted. We have drawn up this proposal by the coalition Members, because we did not agree with the final report prepared by the President of the Commission. The report states that the Commission has not identified the political responsibilities of public function holders for the adaptation or politically motivated counting of deleted. It follows from the partly conducted hearings of witnesses and the documentation obtained that it is not possible for the data to be obtained by political officials and by the staff of the Ministry of the Interior to record the performance of the bride's work and the inadvertent presentation of the higher number of deleted persons. This report, and as a result the final work of this commission, finally concludes the shameful chapter of Slovenian history after twenty years. Several parliamentary investigative committees have been set up on this subject, which have written several interpretations and decisions of the Constitutional Court, and a referendum has been held on deleted, overrun with a lot of newspaper ink, drawn up several political points, and now this chapter must be left to history. Those who have been wronged by erasure must be corrected, but of course we must be aware that the personal tragedies caused by the erasure will never be fully remedied or rectified. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that there is no political responsibility for checking or politically motivated counting deleted, so we will also support the proposal for a final report, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Hrovat, President of the Commission, made a statement. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that again. If we are going to talk about 1992, of which most of the speakers have also spoken, I think it is good that we are discussing a document that we have received from all members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, from which is the complete chronology of how things have been going since 1992. I think some things need to be restored to memory. See, this is a document prepared for the Minister of the Council of Bohinc in 2002 that reads: "Because the media has recently focused considerable attention on the category of persons who are supposed to be 26. 2. The 1992 deleted from the Register of Permanent residence shows, in order to clarify this issue, the following: that this is the case for persons who have had in the Republic of Slovenia up to 26. 2. 1992 registered permanent residence and were all citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ who did not apply for Slovenian citizenship, either because they did not explicitly want to do so or for other reasons." The fact is that these persons are in accordance with the applicable legislation — Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 81 of the Foreign Act — both provisions entered into force. 6. 1991 — Other foreigners. So they became foreigners on the basis of the legislation. In accordance with the applicable law on foreigners, foreign status had to be regulated in Slovenia. In 1999, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia assessed the legality of such an arrangement at the time — and that a regulation should be adopted and so on — and limited the time limit for filing an application to only three months. The deadline is 29 years. 12. 1999. Individuals who have applied for or obtained permission to reside abroad under the said law shall obtain or obtain a permit for the permanent residence of a foreigner. Now, at the very beginning of the whole story of so-called deleted. At that time, different numbers began to appear in the public. First came the number 130 thousand, then came the number 83,000. At that time, the Ministry of the Interior, with the help of administrative units, checked the situation and found that there were 25 permanent residents in the register. 2. 1992 such persons 29 thousand 064 and so on. And here is the complete chronology of what and how it was with them. Look, the beginning of all the events around the deleted began with the number 130,000 foreshadowed. Now, in the end, we're going to get to the number, say, 6,000 decisions made. These figures of 180,000 and 83,000 were presented to the entire foreign public. Is it strange that they thought we were a country that doesn't know how strange it is for foreigners and so on? If we knew then that these decisions would be 6,000 – Slovenia would be at the summit. What about the breakdown of one country — I had to calculate it. It is 3.7% of the citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ who have not acquired citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I agree that the human rights of every individual must be taken into account, but we can conclude from the chronology of the number of so-called deleted that exaggeration with the number of so-called deleted in the early years is one of the reasons for excessive internationalisation and prolonging the resolution of this problem. Part of the policy, which I am showing with my hand to the left, has used this exaggeration to demean the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. But another part of the policy responded and defended himself. Now I have read how the laws of the day were in force. Everyone had a chance, and in the end, 3.7% of the people did not get their status. What's this about one country falling apart? Is that a big deal? Now I go back to the point: if someone has been wronged to lose that status or not be able to acquire citizenship, then this right must be restored. But not flatly, as you have now enacted legislation on this, but individually. But individually, it means to me that he tells me why he didn't get his status back then. Every single one of them turns out to tell us why he didn't take his citizenship back then, why he didn't take his permanent residence. These are the arguments about the very beginning of how things came to be, how they came to be. I think we're talking right now. I think we've all forgotten, but the documents here clearly say how and what. Now, I'm asking my colleague, Darjo Lavtijar Bebler, who unfortunately isn't now, but I believe she's coming, but now there's something that needs to be said. Dr. Bohinc then checked how many so-called deleted were and got the number at the end when he reconciled all this matter, when he aligned all these numbers with administrative units, which are the only mermaids and only administrative units have the right data, came to number 18 thousand 305. Dr. Rado Bohinc, then SD. Now Minister Kresalov has listed her employees, 25 thousand 700 and something else. Now I'm seriously wondering who screwed up. Did Mr. Bohinc screw up or did Mrs. Kresalov screw up? But there's one, both of you can't be right. You can't both be right. The commission of inquiry was set up for one simple reason: it seemed abnormal to us that the number had so increased. How, why? They can't be different records anymore. 1992 - 26. 2. In 1992, so many were transferred. It's over! They can't stand it anymore! You can't. All of a sudden, there's more and more. How? How, if it was then made clear that there were so many, we would move them there — and they were transferred — and there was a number such as was shown. Dr. Rado Bohinc made the count, came to number 18 thousand 305. Mrs. Kresalova has reached the number 25 000 700 and something else. Who's right? It is interesting, however, that when we began with the work of our commission of inquiry, after one year at the Ministry of the Interior, the ashes fell down, and this is the document that we all received. It is also on the website of the Ministry of the Interior, where they recognise that they did not reconcile manual records with computer records and calculated that this was done in 2005. They thought it was done, but no one was checking. Is that what you call it? It's sloppy for me. But who's responsible for one ministry? As Mr Erjavec was responsible, for example, for garbage cans – conscientious work – now, in my opinion, Minister Kresalov is equally responsible for this shamparija that has happened. Right now, no one knows what the actual number is. Nobody knows! But she did, when it was an interpolation, very accurately repeated three times that this number and this number and this number were to stand. But someone has to be responsible for this because this number isn't real! They confirmed themselves after one year. It's not real. I really wonder what is behind the fact that Members and Members of the SD are so heavily covered by Minister Kresalovo. You're ready to wet Dr. Bohintz, who was your member, and defend Minister Katarina Kresal. All right! You have all the right, but this is already a little bit transparent, I think. I'm just wondering what's in the background. Is Dr. Bohinc's support for the Liberal Democracy as a Constitutional Judge in the background? Is there anything else in the background? I don't know, but I'm wondering, I have every right to ask. So once again, I think that this commission of inquiry has done its work correctly, that we have conducted a hearing of those people who knew something to tell us, who have also told us, and everything is also mentioned in the report. I think that this report is so far -- I took the time and I have read all the reports that have been dealt with in the National Assembly so far, and I can say that this is the most empirical report and the most documented report ever. That is my opinion, and I have every right to do so in view of everything that has been said today. As for the billions of amounts referred to by colleague Yuri. You know, billions of dollars have been calculated on the basis of your slemparry when you count so-called deleted because you still don't know how many there are. So don't tell us we've been talking about billions of dollars. If we were to be told an exact, exact number, we could also use this figure to calculate what the country's obligations to these people, to whom we call the Slovenian Democratic Party, have been deleted because they had every opportunity to resolve the matter at that time. However, if someone has been wronged, and I repeat again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are in favour of correcting it if there has been a violation of the rights of anyone at that time in 1992. But individually and ask him why he didn't get his status back then, and then, on the basis of his answer, let him decide whether or not he'll get his status back, not just flat-rate, all over the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u65	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Get Mr. Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u66	Dear colleagues! As I said in the presentation of the Group of Members, the roots of this issue go back a long way. At the time of our independence, we were also generous toward the people of other republics, who had created their roots here and lived here, and we could say that we were understanding. The message at the time was something like this: you have the opportunity to arrange your citizenship, for which the deadlines, regulations, exactly, were set. At the same time, we have also announced this: in the event that you do not settle your citizenship, your rights as a result remain. What does the loss of housing rights mean? Housing rights entail a number of other rights, from employment, social rights, education and so on. A whole bunch of other rights. That doesn't make sense. Promise: Your acquired rights will remain and, on the other hand, face this transfer, which is also legally disputed. In fact, the dispute is that, of course, the law on foreigners laid down how to settle a residence, but these people generally felt that this right had been found and that it did not need to be reorganized. There was this mistake of many. It is hard to accept that these people who had children here did not want to handle this. I just can't say for most people that they didn't want to take care of each other. They may not have wanted to be citizens, and the question is why they didn't want to be citizens. Maybe they felt like members of other nations. I remember when I enrolled the children in school, that many of them had identified themselves as Yugoslavs. [[...]] It was strange for me at the time — how about the Yugoslavs? You're Croatian, you're Serbian, you're Slovenian. Even at the time of their independence, many still felt the Yugoslavs, did not decide on this step, they made a mistake in my opinion; okay, that was their free will. But they were convinced that they would stay here, that they would be able to stay and that their rights would remain. This error or non-transparent procedure has resulted in these consequences, including this meeting and what has happened since. What happened in 2003 and 2009, but here's the real dilemma. Was this methodology, as Mr Horvat said, really optimal? Have all the relevant parameters been taken into account? Why this gap between Mr Bohinc's position and later Mrs Kresal's, I don't know either. Why two official records and two different ones? Okay, that's another question. Therefore, I say that the roots of this evil go far back; but, what happened in those years later, I must say that I don't understand either.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u67	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's not here.]] The word is "ma'am mag." Potrat, get Mrs. Melita Župevc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a report on the work of the Commission of Inquiry, and I was convinced that in our deliberations we would deal with more than one of these two reports, with a final report and a separate opinion, as we have again identified and repeated those positions in which some insist, although the decisions of the Constitutional Court have already been issued, although they have already been in the midst of reports by the Ombudsman, and even though the law has been adopted. One would expect that, at least after the adoption of the last law, it would have been accepted that the legal term had become 'extended' and that it was overwritten to write'so-called', because then it would not have happened on page 6 to authors in paragraph 3 that the sentence would have been so—but tell them what to do with it— 'if they were so-called deleted from the register of permanent population', but the verb was deleted, not about persons. But these were probably always used as a label for the status of persons who lost their right to permanent residence in Slovenia. We could avoid all the politicisation about why this right was taken away from people because I thought that, at least when we adopted the law and adopted the law, we recognized that fact and acknowledged it. But, apparently, my hopes are over. Now, as far as politics is concerned. The establishment of the Commission is a strong politicisation because it was set up to identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. And if I go to the work of the commission of inquiry, it's written that there were 9 meetings, just over 11 hours, 12 witnesses predicted, only 6, it's written, but I don't think a lot of the Commission has read and reviewed everything, there are no reports of the Ombudsman, there are no books published at the Peace Institute with documentary testimony from many individuals, because there is also a record in the 10th point of the statement that there is no sociological research on what was going on with these people. However, if I come from the way the investigative commission defined its task, then I must conclude that the investigative commission has no reason for great satisfaction, because the motive behind the request for the establishment of an investigative commission has not been proven, since direct political responsibility for the design or the politically motivated count of the deleted investigative commission has not been established. And I read it from a separate opinion. She didn't figure it out, she didn't figure it out, she didn't figure it out! [[...]] I therefore ask with what right do authors expect a separate opinion from me in order to get me to support their findings built on sand. Excuse me! The Commission found nothing, but here is the first conclusion that Interior Minister Katarina Kresal was defending the interpretation in April 2009 on a false number of deleted. You didn't prove it! You didn't prove it. This final conclusion has not been reached by the Commission. All she found out was that there were two different numbers. At the same time, the Commission did not deal with what the Minister of the Interior was doing between Rad Bohince and Katarina Kresal. Only once did Mr Hrovat miss the 2005 anniversary, but he was not a first-named minister, not a second-named minister; in 2005 someone else was Minister of the Interior. I understand such a slip, as it may then be that running for a constitutional judge is linked to some of the events that were long before. Therefore, without offense, I find it difficult to believe that it is possible to talk about the great empiricity of this report, because it is impossible to trace anything solid in this report. Bridegroom Work — How? On what basis? These are some of the possible assumptions, but they are not findings. There must be some solid evidence for this. Those who participated in the work of the Commission of Inquiry found that all that was proposed, and in particular those four decisions, could not be supported and proposed a final report, which had been adopted by the Commission by a majority. I intend to support the final report myself. However, I have many reasons for this, and most of all from these additional explanations, which strengthen me in the belief that some have not, despite ensuring that injustice has been done, that injustices must be corrected, have moved away from the original positions that we have been following for several years, not for a millimeter. I hope that, with the work of this commission of inquiry, such an attempt will be made to divert attention from the real problem and from the injustices that have been done to people, and from the fact that, after all, by our constitution, the individual who has been wronged is guaranteed the right to exercise the possibility that the consequences of injustice will be eliminated, that this will finally be achieved. I am not sure that there was anything other than express political manipulation, another opportunity to discuss things that would be right for us to assume responsibility, to admit that the injustice has been committed and to apologize to the people who have been wronged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u69	Mr Hrvat has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I have to respond to this as President of this commission of inquiry, which I have read all the documentation – not once! Trust me. Everything you've talked about so far in your performance, I can easily throw it away. All that is contained in the report is based on documentary evidence, all of which is based on it. A document from the Ministry of the Interior’s website, published one year after the initiation of the investigation, where they pour their ashes and find that they did not foresee that all records are not consistent with manual records in administrative units. That's a fact, that's a statement from the Ministry of the Interior, not just mine. When I saw that, I laughed because then we could finish our work because we saw where the problem was, where the mistake was. Therefore, I find it unacceptable to say that the Commission has found nothing. She found malpractice. But now you're going to tell me whether Dr. Bohinc was reckless or whether she was a petty minister of Kresalov now. If you read Dr. Bohintz's MRI, he said, "I don't have it here with me, I'll be by memory, but he said, "I'm behind these numbers, 18 grand 305. I'm behind this." And I believe it was counted as it should at the time. Minister Kresalov said, "I trust the people who did the counting." Now I'm seriously wondering, who here thinks someone's a fool? I just read and copied things that were published that were published. As far as this report is concerned, it's a slip. No, this report is not a slip, but a summary of the evidence and the testimony. Nothing's made up! And those things that I wrote in the report alone, a separate opinion – I am behind all those words. It is true that we have not discovered direct political responsibilities, since the Minister was unable to say anything. When she was at the hearing, she said she trusted her subordinates. Is that the answer? And it turns out that this was a sloppy job, because no one knows what the actual number has been erased. No one knows. And then it's me to report that we've made a report as a slip and so on! No! No! Then I'll return the ball and I'll say Dr. Bohinz made the slip, then. Dr Bohinc did not do his job as he should – but, of course, I can ask myself, is Minister Kresalov. But someone made a mistake. The fact is, you can't both be right. There's a difference of 7,000. This was transferred to the record in 1992. How can there be so much more now? That's impossible. It doesn't make any sense. This Commission of Inquiry has been set up to determine the number. Why are there 7,000 more of them all of a sudden? The political responsibility of the holders of public functions. What's the result? What is the result of the report of a separate opinion? Turns out it was a sloppy job. Why did Minister Erjavec have to step down when it came to bins when there was reckless work at work? You yourself, at least that's how it was visible at the time, the entire coalition came up against him. He had to step down because of the bride's work. But you're covering Minister Kresal's ass now! And I like that so much. Really! There's something in the background about why you're doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u71	Ma'am mag. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you. It's not going to last, but for those of you who follow, and for the magnetogram, it's only worth telling. The Commission of Inquiry has entrusted itself with the task of establishing political responsibility. I submit that these tasks have not been carried out by the Commission of Inquiry, because a separate opinion on page 6 also states: "Indirect political responsibility for organizing or politically motivated counting of deleted investigative commissions has not been established." And then: "The Commission of Inquiry did not determine which person of the Ministry proposed the counting, nor who established the methodology." The original moment or motive of this commission has not been completed. However, I specifically stopped at the 10th point of the findings, which speak of sociological – and Mr Hrvat, of course, that you had before you the documentary material, but to understand the phenomenon that happened at that time, that you would understand it in its sociological dimensions and also in the human consequences, I recommended to you the report of the Ombudsman, a special report of the Ombudsman and the book issued by the Peace Institute. Maybe then you'd just be a little more clear about what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u73	Ms Melita Župevc has the floor, next will be Franci Kek or Dr Luka Juri or Mr Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll allow myself a brief comment. For me, this parliamentary commission is a mockery of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation. I'll tell you why. Today it was said, the president himself said how much work this investigative commission has done: in two years 9 meetings, 12 witnesses – you only heard half of them. Why is that? Why didn't you hear all 12 of them? 9 meetings of the Commission in two years and such speeches and such conclusions reached today by the President of this commission of inquiry in this Parliament – I must say, I am surprised. I would have expected, after listening to the big words that were said that this commission of inquiry had done some really in-depth analysis, studied things, heard at least 30 witnesses. Because the words spoken today in this hall bear witness to some background of a story that I do not see and do not. I think that this commission of inquiry has clearly shown one thing that I have been defending for some time now, which is that it is imperative to amend the law on parliamentary investigation. This law and practice, which we have witnessed in Slovenia, has been born. The fact that we have seven investigative commissions in one term, including investigative commissions, such as the one who finished work in two years, met exactly nine times, did about 11 hours of work and interviewed 6 Witnesses. In two years, you've heard six witnesses! Excuse me, was such an investigative commission even necessary? This work, which you did in eleven hours, could have been done at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly — we probably had more or more hours. I believe that the law on parliamentary investigation should finally be amended in Slovenia, and those who represent themselves as the future leaders of this country could take some step in this direction and limit themselves. This would be very healthy for our parliamentary democracy. I think that it should also be necessary to limit the duration of a parliamentary inquiry – Mr Hrovat has rushed, he has done his job in two years, he could probably have finished it because he had only 9 meetings, but fine. Therefore, the duration of the parliamentary investigation should be limited, not that most investigative commissions are carried out for three years, but that there is no conclusion in the end – we are not all talking about, we are talking about the majority. If you ask me, the number of investigative commissions that can be set up within one mandate should also be limited and the time set for a certain investigative commission to carry out its work should be set. I think it is unacceptable, as it has been said, that we have in this House investigative commissions that have not convened any meetings for six months, and then come to some major conclusions which are supposed to have a profound impact. previously, colleague Majda Pótt also pointed out one thing; we probably know why investigative commissions are being set up. The Commissions of Inquiry shall be set up to identify political responsibility, not set up to identify shamparia, not set up to identify what else. You said the investigative commission was set up to determine the count. No! No! It can only be established to determine political responsibility; and you or you have not identified it. The Commission of Inquiry may confirm this or reject it. However, it is not necessary that every commission of inquiry should have to assume that some political responsibility was necessary, but there must be some evidence to do so. I think that it is very easy after nine meetings that you have come to these great conclusions which you have made in your separate opinion by the members of the commission of inquiry. As I say, I think a little self-restraint should be required, because, as I say, I have nothing against the President of this commission of inquiry, I think he is a good Member, but it seems to me that this was a plan that may have failed. Indeed, this commission of inquiry is a mockery of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation. The parliamentary investigation should be established in cases that are sufficiently limited, on the one hand, because we have investigative commissions that have already checked all the land in Ljubljana, and there will be the construction of hundreds of buildings in Slovenia. Congratulations! I have to say, I couldn't do this on my own. But, as it is said, self-restraint, when we talk about the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, would be very healthy in this country. When we talk about values, you put them on the pedestal today, maybe you should be a little bit self-critical and sometimes ask yourself whether it is really worth doing some political story on a case that's been overheated a thousand times, and I believe that it will still be when one side matches. I don't think there really was any need for this investigation committee to be set up. This has also been shown after the work done, I will repeat again, 9 meetings, 6 witnesses, not 12 as far as you have determined in the evidentiary decision, and then a separate opinion that speaks of a great story, which is not in the report on the work of the commission of inquiry. One more thing. When this commission of inquiry was set up, sharp, big words were used, for example, one of the SDS members talked about how the issue of compensation becomes an existential problem for Slovenia and that this is one of the reasons for the establishment of this commission of inquiry. I'm sorry, if this was the reason for the commission of inquiry to be set up, then this investigative commission was indeed not set up for the right reasons. Of course, I will support the report on the work of the investigative commission, not a separate opinion. However, I think that it is precisely because of the cases that this Commission of Inquiry shows that it is crucial to finally make any progress in the work of the Commissions of Inquiry so that these Commissions of Inquiry have greater credibility in the public. We too often listen to that well-known sentence that investigative commissions have been set up to prove nothing in order for the presidents to receive salaries. As it is said, if we can all together take a little self-restraint and think about whether each topic really needs to be set up by an investigative committee, I think we will take a positive step. As it is said, I think that the number of investigative commissions should be limited to determining how long the investigative commission should carry out its work, so that the investigative commissions may be able to gain little reputation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u75	Mr. Croat as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Now it looks like I'm adverting every debater, but there's just so many things said that I have to react. All this discussion of the coalition MPs is expected. Look. It is necessary to know that in the National Assembly of the Commission where the coalition has a majority, and we have commissions where it has – in fact, in this mandate, the coalition has a majority in all investigative commissions. What does that mean? This means that in your opinion, Mrs Župevc, it is likely that the conclusion will be reached in the end that political responsibility has been established. Here in my investigative committee – my, in this investigative committee – the result was now at the end, when we were approaching the end of the work itself, equally expected; but, at first, I really believed that we would go into the documentation to dig into the numbers. If we go into numbers, I believe that all the Members and Members who participated in this commission of inquiry could finally say that this separate opinion stands on facts, does not stand on guesses and on some words-indications. Believe me, every word stands what it says in it; I stand behind it, and it is supported by written or oral evidence. So I can't accept that this commission has actually found nothing. She's found a lot of negligence. Why are we done with the work of the investigative commission? Why we have concluded – because there is no point in turning forward because we will not come to any other conclusion because the coalition has indicated that every decision I make will be mined, whatever I prepare. That's what you've seen, that's what you can see. The people watching us must understand that there is, say, an investigative commission set up by the coalition and set up by the opposition. At the end of your term of office, you will see — yes, what conclusions will actually be reached in the National Assembly. At least after what's happening and the atmosphere. But at first I really believed that we would be able to get through with some correctness to some of the conclusions that would be shared — and I believed that they would be together. When I wrote in the final report that we did not find or cannot determine the political responsibility of Minister Kresalova, I did so correctly. You could have let it go — but no! Because that is the fact that she has always referred to subordinates. These subordinates then brought this document to their website after one year of investigation, where they find that they do not really know how many have been deleted. But the minister advocated interpellation here and talked about numbers standing behind these numbers. So someone made a mistake. Someone made a mistake, but it is obvious that the coalition is incapable of knowing or doing anything to direct a real responsibility, whether it is political or otherwise. I say that negligence is also one big story in politics. Remember, Karl Erjavec was flying because of the cant, and you're covering for Minister Kresalov. Nothing's wrong, it's all O.K., but you're pushing your Bohinc Council. You beat your Bohinc Council because he said at the hearing that he was behind these numbers, he's behind the number 18 thousand 305. It's over and it's over! And you're saying that now these findings that we've made and their document from the Ministry of the Interior don't mean anything. Okay, if that's what you think, then that's fine. But it's a shame that this is how we negotiate here. As for the short term, we have completed the investigation committee in two years, which I consider to be a plus. I consider this an honor because few investigative committees have come to an end. It's very rare. But this investigative commission I led has completed its work in two years. It's not just hearings that count, there's a lot of documentary evidence. Look at 60 documents, we have several of these documents — all of these things had to be reviewed. I just wish you, Mrs Zupevcheveva, that you will come to an end with your commission, that you will finish your work and that you will finally adopt conclusions that will be, say, to all, the whole Parliament. I don't think so. I doubt it. When you say that this commission of inquiry was a farce, I can also say that the great farce is your commission of inquiry. But it's not about accusing each other because it doesn't make sense, but the fact is that someone screwed up: whether he screwed up Dr. Bohinc from SD or she screwed up Katarina Kresal from LDS. It's someone. Two numbers can't be that different. There can't be a difference from the same bag. There can't be a difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u77	Mrs. Zupevc, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u78	First of all, what was said at the end, Mr Hrovat; I never said that your commission of inquiry or the commission of inquiry you led was a farce. You didn't hear that from my mouth. I didn't say that. But I said that the investigative commission you led was a mockery of the investigative institute. And I'm still insisting on it. When you talk about it and you say there was nothing that could be done because the coalition blocked everything. Yes, for God's sake! The Law on Parliamentary Investigation is clear. You, as president, had the authority, and with two other members, you could do anything. To be explained — when you realize that there is nothing more to be done, because the commission or members of this party block everything — that citizens will know when you say that it is right that they are properly informed. Three members of the commission of inquiry can do whatever they want: they can do preparatory investigations; they can propose a hearing of witnesses. And it has to be done! That's not what we're voting on! And that, Mr. Croat, you know very well. So if it were your sincere desire to go ahead and find out, to question the Witnesses, to obtain new evidence, we could do so! You can't say to the coalition that it wasn't possible because the coalition blocked it. That's just not true. You have a marriage, you know the law, and then the law has to be applied. I think it's really a problem when you talk about mine, yours, ours, yours – I don't have any of my investigative committees. Well, I'm president of the commission of inquiry, and this committee isn't mine, obviously you have yours, we don't have ours, and we don't have yours. But as a matter of fact, it's an excuse about what couldn't be done. Look, anything can be done. The question is, is it a sincere wish? And when you said it, you misunderstood me that I said that you had completed your work in a short time. No! No! I think you've been working for a very long time because you've had 9 meetings, 11 hours of your work on an investigative committee in two years. If this is an effective job – I'm sorry, it's not for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u79	Mr. Croat as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I am aware that one third of the commission of inquiry has the power to achieve what we want. Look, when we got this document on the Ministry of the Interior's website, the thing was clear: from then on we started to stop the matter because it was clear. I don't know what else to find out. It's a lot of negligence. This is a matter of great negligence at the Ministry of the Interior, because all records have not been taken into account. Let me continue: one third of the members of the investigative committee have done their utmost, and have prepared a separate opinion. That's all we can do. You have the majority, the coalition has voted two conclusions that Katarina Kresal has done nothing wrong and that we are concluding our work. This is all that is written in the final report. I'm sorry. But the fact is that the findings in a separate opinion are all accurate and have a basis in the testimony and in the documentary evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u81	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Potch. Here you go. Mr Vito Rožej will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you. Otherwise, I am not optimistic that this debate will help to clear neither the situation of the work, the tasks, the problems faced by the commission of inquiry, although this would be necessary and useful, nor will it finally clarify the issue of the different understanding of the coalition and the opposition about what the phenomenon is or what has been erased, why it has occurred to people, not the ministries, and why we have started to solve these problems at a certain time. However, I agree with both colleagues that it is still necessary to make a thorough analysis of our way of working in the investigative commissions, because it is possible to say with some malice and simplification that they are created primarily to find a person who can be found for a period of time — three months, six months, a year, two — at the hearings of the investigative commissions by way of hearings, and finally finds nothing, but spends a bit of public money in order that the investigative commission can work at meetings so that the President can receive an appropriate compensation that, without concern, I am not indignant and I do not think that this is a fundamental problem, but if nothing is found, it is also one of the problems we should face. It would therefore be great for me if, in relation to the commissions of inquiry, they found that they should have a clear task to carry out without the President being able to say that he had done everything and that he had not done the tasks or tasks in such a way that the findings expected could not be in the content of the report by the Commission because they could not be proved. That doesn't mean we should prove it. And the court, if the defendant is excused, has done the job. The same was done by the commission of Mr Hroat – to call it that because it has a long name. It concluded that the purpose and purpose of this investigation in order to establish political responsibility for the determination of the amounts deleted could not be established. Only then should this be our joint statement, which is explicitly written, and this is also the recognition of a minority in the commission of inquiry in their separate opinion and the report that this is a fact, but not that it is still trying to prove again that there were two different numbers: one that was at the time of the Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, and the other that was at the time when Minister Katarina Kresal was Minister. However, there is no indication of how this difference has occurred, nor does it find any basic reasons why it has occurred. And you remember, gentlemen of the opposition, at least that's how I remember when you were preparing the bases, please? [[...]] Here you go! Was there anything you wanted to say? Oh, buddy! But you can do it to your colleague. You could have done the same to me, but then you'd have a chance to answer. I just doubt it was a bad comment because you'd rather keep it quiet. I mean, when I think back on the proposal, why not set up an investigative committee, it was your basic argument: it is necessary to find fault in order to potentise in our country the problem of the deleted and that the blame for being erased falls on the then Demos' government. Therefore, it is necessary to identify someone with the desire that such removals are as many as possible, so that the problem is as large as possible, so that billions of damages can be discussed and so on. That was the point. The Commission has carried out its task, but it has not been able to identify this objective. I don't care why. I believe it's also for the right reasons; but she couldn't figure it out. It's too bad it's still being said that there's any kind of guilt, negligence or whatever. No! No! The Commission has not identified the objective set by it in its parliamentary inquiry request to establish the political responsibility for the preparation and execution of the count deleted due to the suspicion that the published results were tailored to the political needs of some public function holders. Gentlemen, if all of this is read, then it can be said that the Commission has finished the work, but it is essential to say that, when it has finished its work, it is not even in a minority group that has given a separate opinion, confirmed it and found it. I'm glad she could be right, but not Mr. Croat all the time saying that you found out something. No, you didn't find what you got for the assignment. The task was: to establish the political responsibility of the public function holders responsible for the preparation and execution of the count deleted in 2003 and 2009, because of the suspicion that the published results were tailored to the political needs of some public function holders. In one word, I have read your report, but I have not found that there is a political responsibility, even less so as to find that the published results have been tailored to the political needs of some public function holders. What political needs? Which public function holders? You might say, "I love Bohinc, but you say no; we don't protect him." You can say that it was Katarina Kresal to protect her – you don't know why, and I don't know why, because there was no such treatment, I didn't participate. I want to tell you, it's nice and nice that you've finished your work, that should be the end of every commission of inquiry as soon as possible. I am not saying that it is possible to say, at least from my point of view, that your work did not produce a result, but acknowledge the result that your commission gave. This is written on page 6: the direct political responsibility for the adjustment or the politically motivated count of so-called deleted inquiry committee has not been established. This is a fundamental finding of all 7 members of the commission of inquiry, and not of what you wrote yourself, to change. Otherwise, I would be very happy if the Commissions of Inquiry were given a specific task, to establish evidence as soon as possible, to produce evidence as concentratedly as possible, and not every two months after half an hour, but to create some public atmosphere – they were correct in determining the facts, not writing something that the report actually cannot find out and then giving some valuable estimates on the basis of this. Only in the case of valuations, I think, can we talk about possible political differences. In fact, if all were correct, these political differences cannot be made. See what you have written in some of your proposals for conclusions, which is difficult to say comes from the content of your part of the report. "The matter needs to be resolved, problems with individual treatment of so-called deleted." This is a claim that has been invented on your part all the time, but in fact, the individual treatment of deleted persons exists if we understand the same thing; it is a matter of dealing with a particular person, that this person must be identified, that the actual situation for that person should be established, not in general, and that he must therefore issue a specific decision to that person with such or other content. All of this is the content of the law and your claim that it is not an individual treatment is simply not accurate. Your finding, "the ratio between the number of persons who have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia following the dissolution of the SFRJ and the number of persons entitled to the supplementary decisions, proves that the citizens of the former SFRJ have been duly informed of their status after 26. 2. 1992". This is an evidentiary claim for you, for me and for all those recorded in the books issued by the Peace Institute, shows that this claim is not justified. It is true that the vast majority of people who were citizens of other republics at the time of their independence decide for our citizenship, I am pleased that this means that they wanted and saw a perspective in my country and my Republic, but some of them, whether they knew the problem or not, did not want to define it. Look at the basic content that we haven't explained to each other and that causes problems. The bottom line is that you come from saying that the marriage was inadequate – it's not true. For us, the 1991 law was appropriate; we even requested an explanation of its implementation at the time of the adoption of the law and received an explanation that the implementation of this law would not be for anyone living in Slovenia, whether he would claim citizenship or maintain the status of a foreigner, who was guilty of any kind. That was the declaration made to the speaker of this assembly, which was then spoken by the congregation. Later, it was different; not because of the law, but because of the instructions issued by the ministries and demanded that those who did not apply for citizenship be deleted from the residence register, which could have been the result of not being destroyed — and today was the speech — by documents, thus making it impossible to recognize normal life and work in our new country. This is where the problem arose, and you don't want to admit it. I think this is what it would be good to find out together sooner rather than later, and I expected that this investigation committee of yours would also provide a solution; the way in which her results, my fellow Croat, are interpreted and no longer gives me this hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik, Willy Trophynik. [[They're gone.]] It's Mr. Robert Hrovat's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Well, now it doesn't make sense for me to repeat myself. It is obvious that some do not want to see what this commission of inquiry has actually found. In fact, she found that it was negligence. The Ministry of the Interior has only found that this moment does not know how many so-called deleted. This Commission of Inquiry was appointed only for this reason. If you read the address of the commission of inquiry, you will understand that the main reason or reason for appointing this commission was that Minister Bohinc counted 18 thousand 305 so-called deleted and Minister Katarina Kresal 7 thousand more. That was the reason why we started thinking about what was wrong here. When we look back, one thing is clear to us: that Dr. Bohinc or Minister Kresalov performed the bride’s work in the ministry. It is true, however, that direct political responsibilities have not been identified. Why not? Because the Minister couldn't answer any specific questions. The minister used to say to the subordinates, "I trust them, I believe them." And then, one year later, these subordinates write in a document on the Ministry of the Interior's website that no one really knows how many have been deleted. But the secretary spoke of this booth as an exact number, 25 thousand 671, that's the last number. That's why we started dealing with these things. We've come to the conclusion that no one knows this moment. And don't tell me or tell me how this committee didn't come to any conclusions. Of course they are! The findings are clear and are set out in a separate opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u85	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler, 15 seconds, has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Anyone else want a word on the regulars? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u86	Mr. Klavora, I'm in writing and you must have skipped me, but it's no big deal, you have to give me this time before the time is shared if you've skipped me. But I don't know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u87	Mr. Anderlich, I had you crossed, otherwise I wouldn't have skipped you, not here or there. But I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you. It'll take a while to finish me off. But I'd like to find out who did it because it can, it can't be an accident. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u89	Mr. Anderlich, I'm kind to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u90	Yeah, I had to fight for my word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u91	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u92	See, in this case, not that it's particularly disturbing to get out, but in fact this motive and these circumstances, in which it wants to continue and continue to discuss deleted, you even say "so-called", and so on. Things are a lot simpler. You wanted in every way with one interpolation, with another interpolation, with no way to prove that strange things are happening at the Ministry of the Interior, to adapt the number of things erased and so on. As a result, the Commission of Inquiry also came to an end. The fact is that we should ask ourselves, as some have already asked themselves today, what was really going on in 1992 and what political motives were then and who was the bearer of these political motives. We could ask ourselves about all the ministers of the Interior, about these decisions of the Constitutional Court, which ordered them to do what the National Assembly had to do, why nothing had happened in 2000 – and, according to my data, there was even a time when the Interior Minister was someone who would now be counted as opposition – why, for example, we did not settle this issue in the 2004-2008 term. We could ask all of this as a question. However, this government and this coalition have set themselves to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions, to protect human rights as one of the major values in this country, from the values from which it is derived, and therefore we have actively participated in the investigative commission. We worked together, too, as Vice President, as much as I can help you or as much as you let me in, as it's called. For this report too – I am grateful that this separate opinion actually came about as a result of the non-acceptance of this in the form of a report. I am also pleased that this report, which we will accept as a report today, and this separate opinion at the key point are identical. It is therefore difficult to discuss today or to listen to things that work has been done poorly at the Ministry, that there has been something behind and that there must be political responsibility, although on the 6th page there is a separate opinion, which you have signed with two other Members, very clearly: paragraph 2 first sentence. Everything you've talked about here is vast, and it's speaking in exactly the opposite of what was said here today. It reads, I quote: "The direct political responsibilities for organizing or politically motivated counting of the so-called deleted investigative commission have not been established." That's the conclusion. Can you later, when this report is your conclusion, because you have even written here, which is also in some way inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure, that you are writing that the report, which you and two other Members have written, has not been adopted, but a report that we have written to the other has been adopted. It's not true that these are two reports! The report prepared by you and the professional services – I seriously doubt that you worked with these two other Members – was amended to a report adopted by the Commission at the meeting. From there follows a separate opinion given by those who disagree as an opinion on the report. However, if you look here at this point, as we have received this material, it says: the report that you and you proposed in the form of the final report and the report that you proposed as the final report at the same meeting. No! No! It is not correct because they will study this over the years, decades, and it will be deceptively presented that it was two reports; one received four votes and the other three votes. No, it wasn't because it couldn't be. Therefore, I really regret that today we have to listen again to this finding of things that fly mainly to employees at the Ministry of the Interior who eventually fly to those who should not be subject to political accounting and political overplay, to those who have to do things by law, regulations, rules that are applicable to a particular issue. Actually, it hurts me the most when you say you want lists, who did it. If you say that you want political responsibility from the beginning, 1992 to 2011, because probably, given what we are listening to here today, this story is not over. I hope that we will stop once on this issue by finding that this issue is closed, closed, and that all those on this list, in one way or another, are no longer subject to controversy, subject to political overplay and proof that someone has done something wrong, that someone has done something that is contrary to the law and good manners. Like when you helped me find this answer that you've been trying to prove here many times today. Mrs Darja also reminded me that it would be good to see what this paper is. From this I understand that it is a positive manner of working at the Ministry when they ask themselves constantly and on every question, is there really anything on what is heard in public, what is said to have been – because by whose order the count has been made deleted, etc.–, the results have been tailored to political needs. From what is read here, it is not possible to complete what you say. If you refer to 2009, it is said that the new information system of administrative and internal affairs was based on the assumption that the data in the new UNWE are up to date and that in 2002 all administrative units were aligned with the computer records and that all data were properly transferred from the old to the new register. This is a finding that cannot be denied. You can also face the statements of the Bohinc and Mr. Wolf, but I don't know who else to deny someone and blindly defend someone else. I have to say that this needs to be understood in the context of solving the whole issue, but not if it's a difference in count.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich, I would like to tell you that we have been here, both the Secretary-General and previously reported from the on-call room, to delete all of the Members of the LDS Group from both points. I also saw – I will finish – I also saw an e-mail. Please check with your Group of Members what has been going on. I am putting an end to this and closing the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u94	Mr. Vice President, I apologize if there's been a mistake somewhere else. He could be in a group, in a club, he could be somewhere else, but I sure as hell didn't check out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u95	Because I didn't blame you, I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u96	Believe me, I've had 18 years of these things on my mind, and I wouldn't want to give up the debate when I can do anything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u97	Okay. Thank you. Check in your task force. There's nothing wrong with us. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the motion for decisions, and we will therefore decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On the agenda, it's a debate about the Ministry's response to the Magnificent Economy. MORE WORKING ON THE ENTERPRISE QUESTION OF THE FAITH OF THE TROFENICS IN RELATING TO THE PROBLEM OF THE PUBLIC AGREEMENT FOR THE ASSISTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN FUND FOR REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT "DEVELOPING CENTER OF SLOVENIA" With regard to this point, I'd like to tell you the following: he's a mag. Darja Radic on an urgent business trip as part of the delegation of the President of the Republic on a state visit to Iceland and Estonia. I do not think it would be appropriate to consider this point because of its absence, so I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, this point be considered at the next meeting. This proposal will be decided today by the National Assembly after the final vote. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote in half an hour, which is at 2.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u98	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to break the 15th item of the agenda. This is the first review of the proposal for a law on foreigners. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on foreigners is suitable for further consideration. We vote, the vote is on. There are 70 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 24. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The opportunity to explain was, I waited, it wasn't meant for anyone to come forward. We continue to end the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a report by the Commission of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the preparation and implementation of the figures so-called deleted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 21. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decisions have been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the draft law on the ID card in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. 4. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Government to Article 7. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 32. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the voice? Please, Dr. Goncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, even before you told the amendment to vote, I held my hand, and some others saw it, but it didn't. I'm sorry, I'm gonna say the train's already gone, I don't have time to reason, but I just wanted to say so much that I actually held on for at least three seconds before the vote even started.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u100	I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. That's what happens. I'm sorry. I waited a while. I didn't see the hands. Please, Mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. In this case, I think it would suggest repeating the vote and giving the gentleman the opportunity to explain his vote because he demanded this option in time. Perhaps the vote would have been different, because there were many who did not know what was going on in that rush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u102	It is not possible to re-vote business in this case. It's only possible because of a voter failure, otherwise it's not. I'm so sorry. Once again, I apologize for this oversight, it wasn't intentional, it wasn't hot, but it just happened. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 12th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 4. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 21. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the draft law on the State Prosecutor's Office. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on the State Prosecutor's Office is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Good thing you saw me this time. Under the Public Prosecutor's Act, the situation is relatively clear — from 80 articles to about 250 articles, as if there were something extraordinary in this country. Of course, it is remarkable, especially that the ruling coalition wants to bring the state's prosecution under its wing. That is why I also made it very clear in the debate that the law could in fact be called slightly different, let's say that it was given the title "the Act on the Occupation of the Public Prosecutor's Office". This would probably be the most appropriate form. What is the content of the law? At every step of the way, you will explain, and we have heard about this pay phone and how it is with the independent prosecution, how it is with independent prosecutors and so on. Very rarely, however, you will find the word "independent prosecution" as an organization. In short, the coalition swears on independent prosecutors and not on independent prosecution as an organisation. Without the independence of the prosecution, there is also no independence of the prosecutors. However, to illustrate how the coalition imagines itself and why we will vote against this law or against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, let me say the following. The state prosecutor's council is today appointed, elected, or whatever you want, by the state's attorneys. The Minister may propose one person only. So, the Minister in the State Prosecutor's Council has one person from all over the State Prosecutor's Council. Of course, the new State Prosecutor's Council, on behalf of the so-called independence of prosecutors, is completely different, namely, the state prosecutors have four representatives and nothing else. The President of the Republic appoints four, of course it is clear, left coalition lawyers, types of those, you know, who don't care whether they comment on a flight to the moon or green strawberries, with the legal aspect on the left-hand side, and one named of course by the Minister. What does that mean? That the state prosecutor's organisation also loses all independence through the State Prosecutor's Council. It means, like I said in another marriage this morning, that the coalition is putting on a beautiful Venetian mask, one that laughs so beautifully for nothing in Venice. There is something very rotten about it. This is why we will oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 29. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote by Dr Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. This decision will, of course, be supported in the parliamentary group, because this proposal for a law represents something completely normal. Indeed, you will not find anywhere in the world – if I do a little caricature, that no one will say exactly so – that some college of ministers will be held by the chancellors of universities and the head of the post office. Here this coalition enjoyed this last year or 2009 more for financial reasons. Because one political party, called Really, wanted to have an influence under its umbrella on the large amount of money controlled by the telecommunications sector. That is why the telecommunications area was transferred from the Ministry of Economy – that is, the economy – to the Ministry of Higher Education, where there is no economy, which is something completely unnatural. We have already found that in fact you can find one country in Europe, if memory does not deceive me, it is Iceland where you would find a similar arrangement. We proposed – what? The law basically proposes that the telecommunications sector should simply go back to where it belongs, and that is, to the economy. It's a very simple matter, I expect you to support it. If you do not support it, in particular those Members who belong to the SD, you will continue the policy imposed on you by another small political group called Really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Franco Juri Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will not support this conclusion because it is attracted to the hair and has a strong ideological and political charge. So there is no rational basis for something, because it is essentially resolved by the merger of the information society and the telecommunications department; and this is normal, this is also technologically and reasonably justified. So it's not about where the two Directorates are going to be united, but it's important that they work together, synergistically and actually complement each other. However, the question of which ministry is irrelevant, especially after the event and after the Minister's announcement, which, as you know, will not be at the head of this ministry for long. So it's not a question to politicize. It is a matter of rationality, rationality and it is clear that Slovenia is not the only country where two Directorates are united. In this way, efficiency will be better ensured than if we adopt a decision that the applicant offers and politically substantiates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Another group wants to explain its voice? I guess not. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u109	Your Honor! The bill foresees nothing but a return to that form of organisation that has already proved to be good in the past. Slovenia was an example in the field of electronic communications three years ago. All her institutions developed well. On that global map, which you can also find on Europe's website, which marks the coverage and accessibility of the broadband network and its capacity as a country, we were at the very top. Today we are overtaken by countries such as, say, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and some others, that I do not list all of them in the order that we have liked to look a lot higher in the past, and rightly so, because we were better than them. They're better today. In the meantime, there was nothing but the division of the spoils carried out by the current coalition and had to give something directly to the host, the president of one of the political parties. Apparently, this model is exhausted, and apparently this model has proved to be harmful. Now it's about saving what to get rid of. And don't forget that the only achievement of this ministry in the current organisation is that, from the construction of the broadband network, the country's funding has excluded the most sensitive border areas, such as the White Landscape, the North Primorska, North Koroška; those that would most need this development potential in order to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and to preserve all those highly educated, capable people on whose development is based in the long term. You have turned your back on those people, which is why this proposal is not only justified and I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the cut-off point of the 26th and the 26th item of the agenda, i.e. concerning the debate on the response of the Minister of Economy, Mag. Darje Radic on the question of the question of the public tender for the European Regional Development Fund – the ERDF "Development centre of the Slovenian economy" is vice-president mag. Vasja Klavora, and of course I am joining this party, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that these points be considered at the next meeting of the Assembly. Does Ambassador Villa Trofenik want a word as a motioner? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Of course, I am interested that the debate on the Minister's response takes place in the presence of her. However, I must express a negative surprise about the planning of the National Assembly and the obligations of the members of the Government. I hope they didn't agree to visit the minister over the holidays. I respect the duties of the Minister abroad, or my obligations abroad, but it is a little strange that the debate should be postponed just before the workers. I would like to point out that I have no choice but to agree, but only that it is at the first meeting. I hope that this is not a way of demeaning the seriousness of the issue that I wanted to highlight in the debate on its response, in which I could conclude in some way on the basis of the material that we have received today at this point by the Ministry. I must express my dissatisfaction with the quality of the material, because it is nothing more than the printed pages of the Ministry of Economy, which do not answer any of the questions raised or the problem raised both in the basic question and in its addition. I conclude: I have nothing left but agree. I want a debate because it will be interesting, and I think it is imperative to do so if we are to be aware of the problems of drawing on public and European funds or their usefulness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u113	Dear President! We are also disappointed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members about such planning and action in Parliament. Indeed, just before the point, we have learned that the Minister is missing and that there will be no point and no debate. This could happen this morning, and it would be easier to plan your work. However, I think that this is an extremely pressing issue raised by Mr Trofenik in his question. It is the co-financing of Slovenian economy development projects, and it is the economic policy measures of the current government. He drew attention to some practices that were unacceptable. This is that grants, through grants, are co-financed by projects of large companies, good, successful companies, against which we have no objection, while at the same time the same instruments do not co-finance projects of small, even promising companies, and the possibility of receiving these funds is further bureaucratic with some statements of banks about some planned guarantees and so on. Thus, the reporting of enterprises is being aggregated and encouraged, which is a reverse process since the country's debirocratisation. So the problem that's being exposed is more than current and we should have done it yesterday. Now it will obviously be a month or more before we hold this debate in Parliament and perhaps convince someone in this government to design better, more effective measures to help economic operators. Once again, let me highlight that crucial problem. This is to co-finance the development projects of large successful cash companies with grants through this tender. Whereas the Minister said several times in Parliament that they would no longer use subsidies as a way to help businesses to subsidise interest rates. Why, then, in this particular case also did they not go to interest rate subsidies for these large companies? Why are they helping them with grants while they are not helping small and medium-sized enterprises, such as through the actions of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, as has been done and implemented in the past? So, President-in-Office, we will support this decision, because there is nothing else left, but at the same time we express resentment at such a way of working in Parliament, to inform us just before we know that there will be no point and that it has been postponed to one of the future meetings. Of course, we miss this discussion because it is more than current.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I was informed of this too very late. Mr Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, we will support this decision; especially because we believe that the presence of the Minister in this debate is important. As far as we know, she wanted it. She also proposed a few days ago, ahead of these holidays to discuss this point in the morning’s work, but it was said that it was procedurally impossible and that was the only reason this complication occurred. Today, the Secretary of State at the Ministry would be involved, but it is probably better, and we will not miss anything, because the complaints that have been forwarded to the Administrative Court are pending. Thus, the Administrative Court has already ruled on alleged irregularities or at this stage of work. Therefore, we will not miss anything if we postpone this to the next meeting and, in the presence of the Minister, we will discuss this in a slightly more comprehensive manner and also on the basis of the new state and new information that will arise on this basis or in the light of the foregoing. So we don't see any drama in this proposal that makes sense. Unfortunately, it was not possible to move the point to the morning, if this had happened, that the Minister would be here today, because this could not be settled, is already on the way with the President of the Republic. I think it's going to be understood without any other regrets at the expense of the government or at the expense of the National Assembly. We are here to make a sovereign decision on a time-frame that will be more appropriate for all of us, the proposaler understands this with all regret, so that I see no other option than to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-03-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much. If you look at Article 74:'reasonable, report the views of the motioner'. Mr Trofenik is, Government, if she is not a proposer, she is obviously not, and a parliamentary group. Does he want another word from one of the MPs? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We decide on the proposal to postpone the hearing of the 26th item. If the decision is not adopted, we will clearly continue to address this point immediately below. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 3. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted, so the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response at the next meeting. The next meeting, by the way, begins on May 16th, is said to be in good 14 days. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye. I inform members and members of the Committee on Transport that a meeting of the Committee on Transport in a large salon will begin in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
