ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's follow-up session cannot be attended by the following Members: Alenka Jeraj, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Ljubo Germič, Franc Jurša, Miran Potrč and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I say hello to everyone! We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, it's on a stand-by motion to dismiss the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Ganttar. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 32 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal for a discharge, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalers, Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! That in this country many things do not work and that the government and coalition do not deal with the real problems, it is clear to everyone for some time now. If many at the beginning of the mandate still hope and believe that the left troika, so-called KGB, can do more than the same KGB, the weak Janša government, they are badly burned. People don't think so anymore, and that's how they show all the popular checks in the last year, both local elections and five referendums. Every time a strong coalition defeats referendums, every time with a plebiscite majority, five times. Despite all the manipulations afforded by the government coalition in the National Assembly, when it postponed the referendum calls when it sent them to the Constitutional Court, when it prevented the simultaneous decision on the so-called referendum day, it always happened the same, nothing helped. And every time strong infidels. How could the coalition not have experienced this, but in a very short time, for two good years, we slipped steeply down? One of the most successful, most talented members of the European Union, who, due to results and readiness as the first new member, was entrusted to the Presidency of the European Union, we are becoming a European problem and we have had the best forecasts of all. In a short time, we have wasted all economic, human, social, political and other resources, and new values are being established: customerism, grabbing, recklessness, all with a large beginning. The originators of illegal practices and major pigs are politically and institutionally protected. They are not subject to the rule of law. The President of the Republic shall grant them their projects and they shall not be criticized, grant them leave and give them other opportunities. The President of the Government shall proceed and shall not act in accordance with his or her powers, and the President of the National Assembly shall prevent even debates in the National Assembly by means of a constitution. Since the meetings of the National Assembly are the only ones to be carried out and made available to the public, the President of the National Assembly prevents the public from even knowing what the actual situation is in the country. The suspicions of corruption and clientism, the granting of business to its political supporters and botr, the abuse of public calls, the neglect of responsibility, the laying of blame on the opposition and other things, and the prevention and rejection of debates on these issues have become a constant feature of this mandate. A coalition of clienteleism, grabbing, corruption, recklessness and bad work in its own kind is defended at all costs and with all means. Members of the SDS requested an extraordinary meeting on 13 May and, in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, Dr Gantar should convene it by 28 May. He didn't do it. In the midst of May 25th, this was very symbolic, on the day of youth, of the announcements, and demanded some rich corrections that we had made to him on the same day. Before that, the Deputy Secretary-General of the General Assembly, Matjaž Plevelj, was sent to me - this is the gentleman who is sitting behind us - to somehow convince me to withdraw the request and then amend it, at the wishes of Gantar's political background, to re- table it, thus starting a new 15-day deadline. That's clever, but we didn't agree. On 25 May, the president of the National Assembly also targeted toxic arrows at the SDS at a press conference, demanding that four points be considered on four large sets of irregularities during the referendum campaign. He said that it was an abuse of the institution of an extraordinary meeting and of the National Assembly and that it must be resisted. And he resisted a violation of the Constitution. It states in Article 85: "The President of the National Assembly shall convene regular and extraordinary meetings; he shall convene an extraordinary meeting if at least a quarter of the Members or the President of the Republic so require." However, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulate that this must take place within 15 days. However, it did not happen, since it was only for Friday, 3 June, that Gantar placed in the meeting of the College the point of the Emergency Meeting Agreement, which means that it had already met all the conditions for its appointment on 25 May and that the meeting could first be convened on 6 June, 10 days after the expiry of the deadline. And this is a mockery of the Constitution, the highest act of this country. Therefore, on 31 May, three days after the date of the extraordinary meeting, we withdrew from the procedure and, together with the SNS, requested a new extraordinary meeting to decide on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Gantar, in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Also, this extraordinary meeting was not convened by Dr. Gantar in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He violated the same provisions of both acts as in the previous case, and he pushed the request for its resolution between the regular points of this meeting of the National Assembly, even though we did not require any consideration at the regular meeting. It is interesting, however, that the President of the National Assembly will realize both points, and one of these will be realized, but not by the way set out in the Constitution, and not by the deadlines laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means that for the President of the National Assembly there is a higher price for politics and over-intelligence than constitutionality. On matters that are the subject of our request, Dr Gantar will allow discussion, but only then and in the manner that this will suit the President of the National Assembly and the coalition. What, though, did the President of the National Assembly prevent? About our banking system. Both banks recently recapitalised in a strange way with a few hundred million euros. Public money was invested in both of them. With both of them, the ratings have fallen heavily, which means that their money will be strongly irritated, as well as to all of us. Both banks have paid exorbitant regresses, both have poorly secured investments at home and in the Balkans, as well as large write-offs, which means that the Slovenian banking system is in serious difficulty. The fate of Kramer's million is unknown with the New Bank of Ljubljana and the role of the President of the State, Dr. Türk, and the Qatari funds in these matters. New facts have emerged at the pearl of clientelism and corruption, KK at the NPU. Dr. Gantar wrote that the NPU government is not competent. Yeah, but who is it if the government isn't competent? Article 4 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states: "The Government shall be responsible to the National Assembly for the Policy of the State running it and for the situation in all areas under the jurisdiction of the State; it shall also be responsible for the implementation of the laws and regulations of the National Assembly and for the full functioning of the state administration. The government is jointly responsible for all its members and the work of the individual ministry is the responsibility of the Minister." To remind you, for the NPU, the government set up an inter-resortary group, later conducted an investigation by the anti-corruption commission, dealt with by the prosecution and one part of the police, carried out an audit by the Court of Auditors, and the costs regularly, despite the crisis, paid by the state budget. Interpellation was also filed against the Minister for the same case. She was defended by the entire government with Prime Minister Borut Pahor in charge. Otherwise, the minister remained, but many remained, even in the coalition, a bitter taste. On April 19th, the leader of the Social Democrats Group, Dusan Kumer, said: "This happens every time things get out of hand with the Prime Minister. Kresalov could have stepped down last year when the coalition defended her on all the weights of the Bulmastif affair and the NPU building at Dimičeva and Golobič on account of the Ultra affair, which is why we even have a parliamentary inquiry in Parliament." The Bulmastif story – new facts found in unfortunate sexually abused puppies of the bulmastif breed, new blood trails, and finally cameras are detected. But everyone only deals with who took the photo and sent the photograph forward. There are also many new irregularities with Dars; despite the negative opinion and the call by the Court of Auditors for a discharge, nothing has happened. Supervisors don't act, the new agency that's in charge, that's the AUKN, writes initiatives and steals time from God. The government or Borut Pahor is not involved in this at all, even though the Government is responsible for the whole operation of the state administration and the state. All the competent ones persist in evading the National Assembly, repeatedly without excuse. It's become a new standard. And Dr. Gantar has not responded to this ignorance, say, Darsa, AUKN. I think that's the kind of thing that tolerates. From the conduct of the Government and the National Assembly as a whole, we can conclude that the National Investigation Office and Dars are not at all within the state and state administration. These are, therefore, the contents that would be discussed at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly if Dr. Gantar had called it then. Since it was not, he prevented the debate and put himself at the very top of the pyramid of those who protect illegal practices. The worst possible abuse of Parliament is the abuse of the office of the President of the National Assembly to unconstitutionally prevent the debate on those practices that are burdened by suspicions of clientelistic corruption and illegal behaviour of representatives of the ruling political elite, and the use of the function of the President of the National Assembly as part of systemic protection of fraud, counterfeiting, place, bad and uneconomic work. That matters in the coalition are not regulated, that the coalition does not operate on sound principles and that a coalition party is too late to recognize the fate of its decision, the statements, as I read earlier, by the leaders of the Dusan Kumra Group of Social Democrats. I can read it again: "Kresalova could have stepped down last year, when the coalition defended her for all the troubles caused by the Bulmastif affair and the building of the NPU in Dimičeva and the Golobič for the Ultra affair, which is why we even have an investigative commission in the National Assembly." In order for similar regrets not to appear later, I call on you to support our proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. All those who will vote against the discharge of Dr. Gantar as President of the National Assembly will be supported by violations of the Constitution and by illegal, clientistic, corrupt practices of the current government. With this you will step under the umbrella of privileges, of willful conduct and of interpretation of the Constitution and of laws, and this cannot be a promise for the establishment of a rule of law and for the equality of all before the law. Such a finding does not require wise men, a healthy farmer's mind is sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proponents, as you have heard, are demanding my dismissal because they are not to convene the extraordinary meeting that they requested on 13 May. This would violate Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. An unusual request, as the meeting would have been convened, but on 31 May the applicants withdrew this request and, quite paradoxically, replaced it by a request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. So what happened? When I received a request to convene an extraordinary meeting, accompanied by proposals for recommendations along with substantive reasons, I found, at first glance and at the examination, many shortcomings, that I did not speak of the material as a complete one, which was already at first confused from all ends and places, and, if I may initially round it up ironically, the most creative work was done by the copying machine, with annexes, clips from the media, which account for about 70% to 80% of the total material. There are certainly enough reasons for me to send the material to the Legislative and Legal Service with a request to review the proposals for recommendations and to assess whether they are admissible for consideration at the assembly. On 25 May, the Legislative and Legal Service delivered an opinion which I sent to the applicant asking them to supplement the material in order to be admissible for consideration at the assembly. I would like to point out that I did not congratulate myself on the former day of youth. By letter, I also informed them that I would convene a meeting in case she was ready and ready. The applicants quickly corrected the material on the same day by abstaining from hearing at the assembly in at least two proposals and immediately starting to run a new business deadline, a 15-day deadline for convening an extraordinary meeting. The request for an extraordinary meeting has already been placed on the agenda of the regular meeting of the College, but a request for withdrawal has come in the meantime. So we had to withdraw this request for an extraordinary meeting from the agenda. The very request for an extraordinary meeting contained three proposals already made by the head of the Tanko Group, and I will not cite them. And in its report or opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service in its introduction points out that the Constitution indeed requires that the President of the National Assembly should convene an extraordinary meeting within 15 days, if at least a quarter of the Members so require, but that is never the only reason to convene a meeting. The requirement must be constitutionally permissible in terms of its content. To shorten: it must be material, it is substantive, such that it belongs to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Cases that do not fall within the competence of the National Assembly, which, as you know, has a legislative, supervisory and electoral function, and fall within the competence of other branches of government or even outside the public sphere, such as the debate on private matters of any kind, cannot be dealt with by the National Assembly either at regular or extraordinary meetings. The constitutional provision referring to the request for an extraordinary meeting shall be based on the principle of trustworthiness, the bona fide. Our constitutional fathers assumed good faith and pure purposes in writing the constitution, not only in this article, but in general that the provision was presented in the way it was meant to be, in good faith and for good purpose, but not supposed to be misused and used in some other, third political struggles. First, it was necessary to clarify with the applicants whether they have tabled, as they themselves state, a proposal for an extraordinary meeting with the four agenda items referred to above, or whether it is one point with six proposals for conclusions. The matter is important because of the EPA classification – administrative procedure but important. Whether it's one or four EPAs on a reference. In the amendment, the applicants clarified this, the material received four points and therefore four EPA classifications. This is also important in substance. I will not make any more detailed reference to the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service. At one point only, she found, at the third point, that there were no comments to be received at the National Assembly. The first point of the proposal does not define what banks are dealing with, it is the Slovenian banking system, and it is not within the competence of the National Assembly to conclude or discuss the responsibility of supervisory boards and bank administrations, including those in private ownership. It does not and cannot make any recommendations in relation to them. It is necessary to correct before a meeting of the competent committee, since the committee would already be in breach of the admissibility principle and would consider and adopt recommendations which relate to a matter on which neither the Government nor the Parliament have jurisdiction. In the second point, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the Government does not have the authority to investigate – I would like to point out that you are expressing yourself very precisely – by renting buildings for the purposes of the NPU when searching for a business. The proposal itself makes it clear that the recommendation essentially relates to the activities of the Court of Auditors, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the police, and is therefore inadmissible in this respect. It is, of course, admissible to deal with the Government, why and how this proposal for a decision came into being, and it is also admissible to deal with it on a committee, at the National Assembly. The National Assembly has a specific supervisory function on this and has already used it and could still use it for me in the context of, say, interpretation functions, sent questions or anything like that. The fourth point suggests a recommendation concerning Dars and so on, so to speak, exactly the same as the proposal for a decision tabled by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Therefore, it is certainly acceptable and acceptable, but this simply means that we have in the process two acts with the same content and two different EPAs, which, of course, in the light of the timing, means that the first consideration of the Commission's proposal for public financial supervision must be completed, and therefore it is definitely admissible to deal with this proposal at a regular or extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as proposed in the request for an extraordinary meeting. So much for that. Since, therefore, at least two proposals for recommendations were capable of being considered at the National Assembly, they were also sent for consideration to the home working bodies, while, as has been said, a reference point was placed on the agenda for an extraordinary meeting, which was due to expire on 9 June, and it is therefore necessary to ask what the applicants indicated that they had withdrawn the request for an extraordinary meeting. Apparently they found that the meeting would take place after a super referendum Sunday, that is, after June 5th, and suddenly they lost interest in dealing with "pigs", as they call them, in a request for my resolution. In this regard, it is certainly interesting that what has already been mentioned was that the same day, on 31 May, they also submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting to address the request for my dismissal. I will read to you the reasons for calling an extraordinary meeting, very interesting: "Proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Gantar, reasons for convening an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The undersigned Members and Members propose that the item for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar, be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 58 of the DZ Rules of Procedure, we propose that this point be considered at an extraordinary meeting. The proposal to dismiss the President of the DZ, Dr Paul Gantar, was tabled by the group of 32 Members and Members in the procedure on 31 May 2011. I admit it's funny. For the reasons of the sitting, I did not understand the reasons. No one understood them. That's what the job warned me about. Thus, the signatures of the 27 Members of the SDS Group and the four Members of the Slovenian National Party Group are attached. I have to say, funny. 27 reasons here and 4 other reasons there are burning. Funny, but unfortunately it's not in line with the rules of procedure. Content or procedural reasons must be given and must be signed by a sufficient number of Members, 23 or more. I myself informed the applicants the day before the meeting that they should complete this correctly, but I did not get the proposal, so the proposal went, as it was said, to a regular meeting. Now, for the initial request for an extraordinary meeting. It must be clear to a five-year-old child that the sole purpose and purpose of the request for an extraordinary meeting was to stage a free referendum campaign, using the institution of the National Assembly. The fast-complicated conclusions with all the laudable explanations are a smoke screen to discuss everything, and in particular what has already been discussed in the National Assembly in one way or another, and believe that it will still be, and today. And, of course, an opportunity to attack everything and anyone who does not fall under the mental and political framework of the proposers. What I personally tell the applicants is this: do you really think I'm so stupid or naive that I didn't miss your manoeuvre, and do you really think I'm so corrupt that I would allow the abuse of the central legislative institution of the National Assembly for such manipulation, and do you really think that I'm going to violate the constitution, the principle of power-sharing and allow a meeting to beat fundamental principles? In these days we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the proclamation of the Slovenian state and the 21st year of parliamentaryism, and today we face attempts to devalue Parliament and parliamentary democracy. The basic strategy that I see in the proposal's proponents is simply the delegitisation and devaluation of all the institutions that form the constitutional and democratic core of this country – the President of the State, the President of Parliament, the judiciary, the institutions of the referendum and the National Assembly itself. Since 1968, dear colleagues and friends, friends and colleagues, of course, I have been in many conflicts and fights, arguments and disputes and so on, and we are not at all hurt if we face each other in any way or in any other way, i.e. with me and because of me. That doesn't really bother me. It bothers me that this is the President's institution, which I now represent and embody. It's not that you respect me. I do not demand this respect, I do not demand any recognition, no consideration, but I demand that you respect the institution of the President of the National Assembly! And if you're going to convince everyone who thinks this institution is incompatible with my person, please, I'm going to sit in a bench and a chair marked with my name. The reason for such conduct is, of course, one alone: to achieve a situation in which the democratic constitution of the elections will no longer mean anything, because the National Assembly will be devalued and abolished. And, ladies and gentlemen, I will not take part in this. I know too well what had to be done for democracy in this country. In the function I have, or without it, when I don't have it, I'm going to try, legally and legitimately, to prevent it, today and whenever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Dr. Pavel Gantar, President of the National Assembly, all others present! The absolute rulers are those who do not allow criticism on their own. The absolute authority is the one which identifies democratic standards that are in force in democratic countries and which allow criticism in accordance with the applicable Constitution and laws as inappropriate, unnecessary and the destruction of the institutions of the system. On 13 May 2011, the Group of 27 Members and Members submitted a request, in accordance with Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with four key points. Firstly, the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to business banks in majority state ownership. Secondly, the use of taxpayers' funds. In this case, in particular, we expose inappropriate, unnecessary, economically harmful and otherwise renting a building for the purposes of the National Investigation Office. Thirdly, the police and judicial protection of the privileges of the electorate by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, in particular in terms of the rule of law, its demolition. It doesn't work or works for some at light speed, but for others it doesn't. Fourthly, clarification of the functioning of the management and supervisory board of Dars in individual cases of operations and conduct of serious infringements of the business obligation. Despite the constitutional conditions laid down in Article 85 of the Constitution, the President of the National Assembly, Dr Gantar, did not convene a meeting. And so, then, yesterday, as well as today, the proponents are in some way informed that the eyewitnesses flying on it are ridiculous and unrealistic. Pardon me, Your Honor, the violation of the Constitution, the violation of what the Constitution clearly stipulates is therefore ridiculous in the opinion of the President of the National Assembly. And then we are the proponents of those who break the authority of institutions because of their misbehavior, not only in accordance with the Constitution and the laws – in this case it is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – but not those who do not follow or violate these practices. Not once, on more than one occasion, we have witnessed a minor or greater breach of the rules of procedure which is to be law in this national assembly for us. The Constitution explicitly stipulates in Article 85 that the President of the National Assembly shall convene regular and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, and that the Constitution provides that the President of the National Assembly shall convene an extraordinary meeting if a quarter of the members of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic so require. Despite the conditions met, both formal and substantive, the President of the National Assembly did not convene an extraordinary meeting. That's what he stood up to, not for the first time. On 21 April last year, the Group of 27 Members and Members requested a meeting on the suspicion of police abuse for political purposes and on the suspicion of abuse of covert investigation measures in the National Assembly. The meeting was not called to order. In the second case, just one year ago, in the event of a request to deal with the financing of Stožice by banks owned by the majority of the state during the worst credit crunch in Slovenia, the President of the National Assembly justified his conduct with content. In his arrogance and will he went so far as to declare that he defended the Constitution by not convening an extraordinary meeting despite a clear and unequivocal constitutional provision, that there was a proposed debate on a matter that the National Assembly had nothing to discuss. However, it was a debate on the financing of Stožice, a issue on which it was recently found that part of the funds had been allocated unlawfully, which will require the Republic of Slovenia to return them to the budget of the European Union. In addition, the exposure of the largest NLB State bank in this case is too high and non-economic loans will again burden taxpayers. The president of the National Assembly then mocked and humiliated the candidates, and by his conduct he proved that, unfortunately, by appointing the President of the National Assembly, he also dressed as a self-sufficient person who, by his own interpretation of the Constitution, the laws and regulations of this State Assembly — especially when it comes to Members sitting on his right. By the way, to us, that is to say, those on his right, there is often a clear lack of a reasoned debate, the ease of giving words and so forth, and his eyes or ears clearly do not detect the conduct of those who sit before him and from which comes the most hostile speech, the humble comparisons, personal discredits and disqualifications without arguments and solely for the purpose of personal accounting. That I don't lose any more words about those on my left. And so then, a year ago, as well as today, we hear that an extraordinary meeting, despite a clear constitutional provision, was not convened because we proposed it at an inappropriate time, at that time during the mayoral elections, and now at the time of the referendum. The president of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, has repeatedly proved, not only that he is a member of the party first, but I use the word in the client's sense that there will be no mistake – a faithful soldier of his party, then a ruling coalition, and only if there is still anything left in this authoritarian government holding, the President of the National Assembly, who is supposed to be impartial, equal to everyone and, above all, the first among the same, and nothing more. It is consistent in limiting debates and taking the words away from members of the opposition species, most of all those sitting on his right, sometimes also in the middle, and indeed exceptionally on the left, for a pattern of obtaining a sense of democracy that is to prevail. When it is necessary to respect the Constitution, he says that everything he does is to defend it, and he defends it roughly like the Constitutional Court in a recent decision, when he has taken a decision that is contrary to the law with the alleged protection of constitutionality, because the new congregation set up by the Constitutional Court in defence of this constitutionality does not meet the conditions laid down by the law – if we are already neglecting the division of power into legislative, judicial and executive. A year ago, the President of the National Assembly rejected the request for an extraordinary meeting because, in his opinion, we wanted to discuss concrete financial relations, and this should not be discussed by the National Assembly, not even at an extraordinary meeting. He taught us to convene an extraordinary meeting if the applicants started to discuss and adopt conclusions and recommendations on, quote, "the government's policies regarding banks in part state ownership and their real or presumed exposure to risk credit". What happened? One year later, the president of the National Assembly fell into his own trap. What did we propose in this request? I had previously read the first point, which was published in the Proposal for Recommendations on the Policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Business Banks in Most State-owned Countries. Dr. Gantar didn't call an extraordinary meeting. He hides behind formalities, hides behind dots, bolts, opinions of the Legal and Legal Service and other legal theorists. For a long time we could theoretically base it on, but I think it's irrelevant. The point is also visible to the blind. The President of the National Assembly knowingly and deliberately violates the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that is why his responsibility is so much greater. He is looking for points and commas in opposition proposals in order to prevent the hearing of the National Assembly on topics that are unpleasant to the ruling coalition, and he is also manipulating the public on a planned and perfidious basis today. Why is he doing this? Let's ask. Is it in the first place to protect the Constitution and the rule of law, is it in the interests of all the citizens of this country, or is it in the interests of the ruling coalition and to prevent debate on what is burdensome for this ruling coalition? Everyone in this Chamber alone will be able to answer that question, and it would also be right to vote after he has voted in secret. Of course, this will not happen, even though I firmly believe that most of us know that all these works are not about building greater democracy, nor is the institution of the National Assembly; otherwise, it would not have fallen from month to month, nor would things that are not good in this country and need to be rectified. Who else will raise his voice if we don't have him in this House behind the speakers? However, this is the only means and only weapon available to us so that we can influence things that are not good, that are bad, that are illegal, that are illegal, that they can influence them to be better and that they are primarily in the interests of the people living in this country. In this debate, which was obvious to the ruling coalition, especially at the moment of disintegrating across all seams, a burdensome one would, for example, raise a question about it, and it would be interesting to ask the Minister of the Interior whether she would conclude a private contract such as that for the NPU, to pay someone about EUR 11 000 more each month than the payment of the lease payment, and that upon payment of the entire purchase, when she paid it all, she would not be the owner of this building that she would pay back during that period, but that some EUR 20 million would be the property of that entity. And why did such conduct happen if no private business were likely to be concluded? Why did such conduct take place in the public sphere, and why was it that the President of the Government, this national assembly, did not act in some way if you wanted to, because we also discussed it in this national assembly, why did no one do anything in this story? What is that interest, what is that glue that holds you together, not only to prevent these things from being settled and cleared, but to prevent even debates on this issue? With regard to the independence and impartiality of the President of the National Assembly and the recognition that the meetings are not at the right time, it should be asked — firstly, there is no formal indication at which time the applicants may request a debate on which issue, and also there is no jurisdiction of the President of the National Assembly, in order to prevent or restrict the debate and act contrary to the Constitution, in his view, because of the fact that a particular debate has been initiated in the wrong time in his opinion. But let's just leave it. Let's take a look at how this President of the National Assembly acted in the past, whether he himself was directing the debate on individual agenda items on the days when, for example, there were no votes at the end, because the themes were inappropriate, unpleasant for the ruling coalition, because we know what the presence in the Chamber is. Now I'm speculating and manipulating again, which is not a nice, distinguished president, but unfortunately with your way of discussing it you've also given me this way. I will conclude, but what bothered me personally was, for example, your active participation in the referendum on small work, where you, as President of the National Assembly, from the seat of the President of the National Assembly, from this house, publicly advocated in support of this law, even though we are sitting in this national assembly, both those who supported this law and those who did not support this law, and that we were divided roughly in half. And not to say that this posture was neutral, to all alike, and that there was no partiality in this. This debate would also raise the question of whether the law in this country applies to everyone. There is no doubt about it, but the implications of this validity for everyone are interesting. For some, a little more, for others a little less, some have privileged access to the protection of their rights and rights to the courts. If I express myself figuratively, they can literally come and go through the side doors and, in the privileged timing, achieve the exercise of their rights and entitlements in the proceedings. On the other hand, we have cases of the same law when things get old when there are no procedures that are five or ten years old, and usually when we look at them, most of them are connected in one way or another, or party or economic or political, with the ruling coalition. This debate would also, of course, raise the question of why taxpayers have to pay for the failed investments of state banks, especially the largest state bank, and why none of the competent, president of the state, President of the Government, President of the National Assembly, this National Assembly, will do anything. Why do taxpayers have to remedy the bad, irresponsible, harmful decisions over and over again, despite the fact that even some CEO of this largest bank has been rewarded with one million euros in rewards and no one in this story has done anything? I think that here is a vital issue not only for the construction of the rule of law, but primarily for the construction and enforcement of the stability and stability of our financial and banking system. Sooner or later, someone will have to have a very serious debate on this issue, not just a debate – sooner or later someone will have to make very serious and responsible decisions that will not be easy, and later on, they will be harder to implement and more harm will come to that country. Of course, this debate would also raise the question of why taxpayers have to pay unnecessary rents on buildings by being served by friends of ministers and ministers. Why do taxpayers still have to pay or overpay for the construction of motorways after all these years and nothing happens to those responsible, despite the Court’s call for their resolution? Probably the reason is that there is a political bias between those who occupy these responsible positions in positions of leadership and their overseers. These are members of the same party within the ruling coalition. They've been in friendly relationships a lot. And, of course, it is also impossible to expect some responsibility and responsibility in their conduct. And it is likely that the future of this debate, regardless of which government it will open up the question of whether it would not be good for a different system of supervision in these companies to be put in place, and that these companies should also allow the opposition to participate in the monitoring of these entities. Perhaps this is the key to more responsible and more rational management and management of this property. So last year, when it came to the debate on the non-economic management of budgetary resources on the basis of friendly political ties and the non-economic behaviour of state banks in financing projects that will never return funds, which is why, as I have already said, taxpayers have already paid several hundred million euros for the so-called recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, so that gentlemen can share high earnings and rewards, as well as this year's call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on matters which are still under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly has served primarily on formalities, peaks and branches in the prevention of this debate. Therefore, in this case it is not only a lack of respect for the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, it is a deliberate and deliberate prevention or limitation of the right of the National Assembly to take decisions, through an argumented debate, to help prevent or eliminate these inappropriate works. In each of these four points, we have made very clear and unequivocal proposals for conclusions, which I believe would also be widely accepted or supported. The question is, of course, whether this government or this ruling coalition would want to enforce them or carry them out. For all these conclusions, of course, have placed one large part of the responsibility on the one who currently has this responsibility in this country. However, the National Assembly would have its task by making appropriate decisions, making and giving a clear signal to the competent authorities that these matters would be clarified and that these misrepresentations and irresponsible behaviours would be eliminated. I think that this debate is still in the interest of citizens and citizens of this country, that it is still in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is also in the interest of building parliamentaryism and exercising its weight in our democratic system, and should, of course, be carried out. In a way, we'll probably do it today in the debate, but of course that's not it. Today we are talking mainly about the discharge of the President of the National Assembly because he does not respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which represent the law in the National Assembly. We are talking about this so that we can talk about the real problems facing Slovenia. The biggest problem, however, is certainly the clientelistic political ties that have lost people's confidence because of their inappropriate decisions, but they would still want to continue to rule, if not otherwise, through the fraud of remodeling the government. One of the government's clients has already proved to be in this role. Its Members support government decisions more firmly than before when they sat together in the government, making decisions that are bad for Slovenia. He's really leaving the government team, but Dr. Gantar, as the future opposition MP, remains. He's bound by responsibility to the state. Some of the most servile from Club 571 have already applauded this responsible decision yesterday, but the serious ones can only imagine deeply, not only the state of the spirit in this House, the state of the spirit in the society as a whole, the state of the spirit throughout the country, the state of the spirit, which is so vividly embellished by the President of the National Assembly, with words and beyond deeply democratic, in the actions of extremely authoritarian. Today, in this context, the President of the National Assembly, as it already seems important and irreplaceable to himself, only represents an additional obstacle on the way to the realization of a normal state, the rule of law, not because he does not represent any freshness, not because it is not a young face – do not resent it, now it is modern, because you know, the saviors are in young faces, in fictional puppet faces that we do not see, but are still here or will save Slovenia in a year – because, on behalf of this freshness and new faces, they are willing to go through the constitution. He talks when he should be silent, and he is silent when he should speak or answer. The President of the National Assembly is loud when the motioners demand respect for constitutionality. In this case, it is his intention to demolish democratic institutions and, for example, to remain silent in case of or such behaviour, he supports the fact that government Members, by misusing the procedure, are twice expelling the President of the Commission of Inquiry simply because this body would not do its work for which the National Assembly appointed him. However, following the request, new circumstances have arisen. He is indeed leaving for the opposition, obviously fictitious, otherwise Dr. Gantar would have resigned on his own unless he was chained to the chair, as were the members of the Social Democrats and the LDS on their own. In any normal country, in such circumstances and in such cases, in the event of such constitutional violations, the President of the National Assembly would resign himself and in some way relieve himself of this space, which is also due to his way of leading the National Assembly, not only because he will not make a mistake — everyone has contributed to it — he has accumulated negative energy and left the city to another, even for only three or four months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! On the second day of this summer, when the June sun is already brazenly warming our bodies and our souls and are in fact the longest days, we are again in this Chamber, for the second time on the same subject, before the request of two opposition parties, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party, for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Gantar. And what would the esteemed SDS and SNS colleagues do? Simply put, they are offended because the President did not include their thematic general meeting just before the Super Referendum Sunday and chose a more appropriate term after the event. But the later deadline for the candidate was no longer interesting, clearly, because in the SDS they wanted only or mainly a pre-referendum free show, where they could spit on the government just by slightly encouraging viewers of the third programme of Television Slovenia to vote against everything. That expectation was, to say the least, irresponsible. Even more worrying is the background behind this obsession, in particular the Slovenian Democratic Party, and its efforts to destroy, hysterize and create permanent political emergency situations, undermine all institutions in the country, bring chaoticism, delegateitimise power at all costs. Sometimes the steps taken by the strategies of this chaos and this fear are too quick, too slow for their own ends, and with these too quick moves and too long steps they stumble here and there. As was the case yesterday in a court where the action against the great strategic and esteemed Member and the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party against the columnist and university professor Dr. Vlad Miheljak was to take place, and before that because of other actions, such as those against Dr. Ziherl. A strategic and political February, which did not come to court yesterday at all, dropped the charges when he saw and realized that such an action would not have been successful in Belarus. What did he say and quote his colleague Blackach before? "Absolutes are the ones who don't allow critics on their own." I sign, indeed, and it turned out nicely yesterday in these awkward attempts by the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party to prosecute the thinkers differently and in fact indicated how in this party, which today requires the release of Paul Ganttar, they understand democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of expression. We will certainly say no to President Gantar's dismissal, although it appears that we will devote seven hours of debate, work, the efforts of this national assembly, while we believe there are a number of other concrete problems that we should deal with, not only with the coalition, but also with the opposition. Otherwise, I fully agree with what has been written in one of the more read Slovenian weeks, and because I don't want to be a grave and I don't want to be the target of criticism, if I encourage an hate speech, because among those in our parliamentary group who would like to limit it, I will not quote it. How do you make totalitarianism? To legitimize politics, give power to the streets, create enemies, offer a leader. And this leader at public performances convinces us that new faces are not needed in Slovenian politics, but new ideas. We could partly agree, of course. How have they not been shown so far, or what are these new ideas? If they show up in their daily routines, this has already been seen, but in a milder form. We can predict a Hungarian script. Given the praises of their media law by the European Parliament, the former Minister for Education and a more visible member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this scenario appears to have already been written. Let me just list a few fresh, constructive, state-of-the-art ideas of the Slovenian Democratic Party. First, the case of the constitutional indictment of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Danil Türk. Of course, there was no appropriate legal basis for the constitutional charge. Second, multiple discharges of the President of the National Assembly. This saga continues today. In the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that the requirement of SDS and SNS Members for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly is cheap politics and we strongly reject it. It is more than obvious that the requirement for an extraordinary session was only one of the elements of the referendum election campaign, which would be completely free of charge for them because direct television broadcasts would be paid by RTV Slovenia’s subscribers. The proposed topic was intended only to undermine the credibility of the Government, as reflected in the proposed text, which was written more than a political referendum pamphlet than a recommendation that could be discussed by the National Assembly. We therefore estimate that the President of the National Assembly had no choice but to return the request for an extraordinary meeting to the applicants for correction. An extraordinary meeting would thus take place after the referendum week, which clearly took the idea from the President of the National Assembly, which also confirms the fact that they have withdrawn this request today and have decided that they will, more than ever before, require the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly. Thirdly, multiple interpellations of individual ministers or ministers. Fourthly, a challenge to the legitimacy of the leadership of the judiciary and the judiciary, such as Maslesha, Fischer and so on. Fifthly, attacks on the Constitutional Court, judges' salaries and related referendums. Six, editing, falsifying documents, archives of the Republic of Slovenia. The publication on the SDS website of a forged, falsified document consisting of various documents, solely in order to defile the President of the Republic. This manipulation was exposed, proven, nothing happened because the SDS is currently living in a democratic state. On the other hand, there are political interlocutors who are not absolutes and who do not require clarification to the end, obviously, and because the prosecution, which was then in the hands of the Attorney General, who is a political ally of the SDS, was not motivated enough to sanction something that would be severely sanctioned in the rule of law anywhere. Counterfeiting documents – the SDS has afforded this in this mandate. Let's move on. Disputed political behaviours that did not take account of the damage caused by them, such as accusations of a bombing in Celovac during the negotiation of the Slovenian minority in the Slovenian Koroška on the establishment of bilingual inscriptions on local tables, extortion of other countries, conditionalisation of support to Croatia by voting on the final account. A new extraordinary meeting against one of the best results of our diplomacy and our government in negotiations with Croatia is already being announced. I am referring, of course, to the issue of compensations to be paid by the European Union to our fishermen for failing to implement the SOPS. A new extraordinary meeting on this subject is already being announced, although it is an obvious success of this government. Interesting. This is a hocuscus, black magic – all that is good is to be shown as bad. Wrong world. Week, the ostracisation of state prosecutors; last case of prosecutor Hrastar Zobst. Eight, media assault, Journal 24, Youth, and individual journalists. Nine, assaulting experts. According to their so-called experts – these are just those with whom the SDS disagree and therefore become so-called experts or no longer experts. The decade, the creation of general paranoia, the politicization of the work of the police, is often spoken of, the evidence of privatisation by the minister, the police as a tool for the persecution of political opponents, the creation of a big brother or the politicization of the operation of the Owl, the hint, the listening, the tracking and so on, without evidence, but the creation of such an atmosphere, such a state of spirit to help create a "Hungarian script". The 12th time, Parliament is at the lowest point of prominence and it needs to be further tarnished by such meetings. There is a lot of hate speech in this national assembly, and we keep reminding that. There is a great deal of disregard for the rules of procedure, according to the SDS, and above all there is a great deal of kidnapping of working bodies for the current political affairs of the day. The opposition is actively involved in the planned undermining of the reputation of this National Assembly. This meeting today is another such case. It is not an honor for us to discuss for 7 hours something that stems only from a prestigious struggle, from a fight of resentment, from the desire to actually exploit this highest institution of Slovenian democracy and abuse it for daily political games. And in the end, irresponsible flirtation with populism. The pension reform was not necessary for you. RTV law only meant privatisation. Neighbor's help is supposed to be banned. We're supposed to cancel lunch with a little bit of work. A lot of false messages, a lot of inaccuracies, which are, above all, a systematic challenge to all the actions of this government and this country, because these are measures that the whole country, including the opposition, should be responsible for financial stability in the euro area to which we belong and which we want to continue to belong. Among the seven countries that are at risk, which Juncker lists as countries with severe problems approaching Greece, Slovenia is not, are other important European countries. Finally, Italy and Belgium were recently mentioned, but before that, Greece, Portugal, Ireland and so on. Slovenia is not, and it hurts you, it bothers you. Because if that were to happen, we would probably immediately request a well-founded meeting this time on why we are in a risky group of European countries. Since this is not the subject, you need to come up with new topics, others that have nothing to do with the real problems of this country, and that is why we are today at a meeting where we are talking about the unjustified discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Let me point out once again that the Group of Members does not really accept these arguments, strongly reject them, and we will also, if necessary, cooperate and highlight those issues which, in our view, are crucial and not only of interest, but of direct concern to our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I agree with the finding that a number of proposals have been made regarding the work and way in which the coalition works and, above all, its effectiveness. I also stressed this yesterday on the issue of the Prime Minister. I note that the non-alignment of the coalition is a major obstacle in taking measures that would lead Slovenia to the treatment of the economy and the creation of conditions for its relaunch. I also stress that all the parties entrusted by the electorate to lead the country are responsible for the functioning of the coalition. Later running from responsibility and abandoning the ark does not relieve this responsibility. Only elections can save the responsibility to lead the country. In doing so, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I note that, for the first time, as regards the number of extraordinary and regular meetings, this mandate is nothing special, at least in view of the mandates from 1996 onwards, since I have also witnessed them personally. Secondly, the culprit for the state of the country's situation is not meaningful to look for in the leadership of the National Assembly. The National Assembly, despite a different public opinion, and we are primarily guilty of this, is doing its work properly and in due time also to the leadership of the National Assembly, the services of the National Assembly and the parliamentary groups. The perpetrator must be sought in the manner in which the State institutions and the Government are responsible for such a situation. Thirdly, in a debate that will obviously go on all sides, important and irrelevant, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Joško Godec has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar, is as follows. Almost exactly a year ago and a month ago, in the National Assembly, we had already faced the first proposal to relieve Mr Gantar of his office as President of the National Assembly. The evidence on which the request was based at the time is almost identical to that on which the President's discharge is proposed today. In both cases, the motions for the President's request were self-explanatory because he did not convene the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as requested by the Members. Last year it was the Stožice, and this year it was four different points: the policy of the Government to the business banks owned by the majority state, the National Investigation Office, the Bulmastif affair, the functioning of the administration and the supervisory board of Darsa. However, there is a significant difference between the two requirements and their follow-up procedure. The meeting on Conciliation was not convened, but not because of the announcement of the arbitral opinion of the President of the National Assembly, but because, in citing the meetings of the National Assembly and addressing the topics, it is also necessary to satisfy the eligibility condition in terms of the substantive competence of the National Assembly to deal with a particular matter, to decide on it and to take decisions on it. The Members' Group, with Mr Tank's first signed, is 13. 5th of this year, it submitted an application for a reference to an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with the contents of the four points mentioned above. During the course of business, the President of the proposer, in view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, pointed out that the request for an extraordinary meeting and the proposals for acts were not in accordance with the rules in force and invited the applicants to complete the request. At the same time, he explained that, in the event of appropriate corrections, the meeting would be convened. The request was 25. 5. Accordingly, this point was duly supplemented by a reference to the College of the President of the National Assembly 30. 5th meeting of the College for 3. 6. to determine the date of the extraordinary meeting, its agenda and the announcement of the time. Thus, an extraordinary meeting would take place, in accordance with and within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, if the applicants did not withdraw the request for its reference. The last one was 31. 5. With regard to this renewed proposal for a solution, therefore, we cannot at any time talk about the rejection of the request for an extraordinary meeting, as the proponents argue. As a result, we see no reason in the DeSUS Group for voting against the President of the National Assembly. According to the forecast time and current political developments, this point today appears to be very exhausting. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, I should like to express my regret that we are wasting a very valuable time for political intrigue for Slovenia, rather than being meant to solve serious problems that are far from over. As we say, we will vote to confirm Mr Gantar's mandate to lead the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Nice hello to you all! Parliament is in favour of discussing, speaking, Parliamenting, proving, cremating, and that all those things that are not supposed to be done on the road are being carried out in here. Good parliaments are those where votes are raised, where direct expressions and also direct accusations are used. Do we have such a parliament? We don't. The English, the French, the Italians, the Austrians, the Germans, the Croats, the Serbs, the Macedonians, so as not to talk about others. We have a Parliament in which the President of the National Assembly restricts the word. The reason may be very different. Sometimes it is an hate speech, although no one in Slovenia has defined the hate speech, as well as famous commentators and analysts from the FDV and various other similar institutions proclaim that it is an hate speech, but we have not heard the definition yet. What is wrong with this House and what is wrong with the current President? It is wrong not to realize that it is precisely that in Parliament you can say what you think is the most that can happen and where a real degree of democracy can be achieved. Democracy in the Republic of Slovenia is no longer. We're becoming a police state, more and more from day to day. Now the minister has even announced that she will be setting up base stations at Parliament to record everything, not just phone calls, but also fixed-phone conversations, to record all the e-mails and things like that. Where are we? In Parliamentarianism? In democracy? Far from it. What can we hold against the president of the National Assembly in our party? I'm not going to go into everything that my colleague Chernač has already said, but even those things he hasn't mentioned. When one of his political colleagues, party or coalition, spoke anything, he was never interrupted. When it seemed to the President of the National Assembly that I could say something, something that would not have happened to his client colleagues or coalition colleagues, he took my word. Taking words was so far away that even on TV they made a fool of me to always lose my word when I wanted to say something. I will not forget the debate when we talked about intelligence services when we talked about the intelligence report when I was not allowed to say what I know at the closed session! At a closed session, the president of the National Assembly took away my word and I went out then because I didn't think it was worth sitting somewhere where I couldn't say what I knew. That's why it's such a mess in this country! That's why some people can afford not knowing everything they remember! After all, he is also a Corporal, a police-armed Corporal of the National Assembly, who was blessed by the President of the National Assembly, to the refugees of the world! Interestingly, neither under Nazi Germany nor during Stalin’s Soviet Union nor during the former Yugoslavia! Something like that was unproven! With us, the president gave us a green light that armed police officers, not those who protect the National Assembly, but outside armed police officers and armed criminals, could walk up and down parliament, lock people up, take their freedom, restrict them, illegally! That is why the debate in Geneva is now about this thing, but it happened to the thirst of someone who was protecting his coalition colleagues or colleagues at all times. He wasn't interested in legal legitimacy, he wasn't interested in Parliament's inviolability! Nothing interested him, only to comply with his political colleague, who imagined some things and carried out a police-armed desant to parliament, as well as an investigation, illegal, illegal, illegal investigation at my home, for which she even wanted it to happen — as I am sure the investigative judge of the court in Koper wrote after the command — from 10 a.m. to 6 a.m., when my two girls, aged 4 and 7, would sleep when a woman would break into a house armed, disguised, with searchlights and shotguns in their hands, the police would squeeze them against the wall and then carry out an investigation. Thank God the police were smarter than the Minister's and any other kind of presidents, and they didn't do it and came in a day's time. They also apologized for knowing what was at stake and why it had happened. But no, everything that's done on the side of the coalition has to be burned, and that's why the state in the country is like that. I'm not going to talk about people's thinking, I'm not going to talk about different views and measuring the pulse between people, because we know how most of these things measure the pulse. He looks back a little bit, and then he kind of says, and then he sits down with his hips, and the hips say, "Don't give it to me, give it a little less, give it a little more, because he did us some favors, push this one out of the list, so he'll be a little nervous, and put some other inside." In my opinion, which is confirmed from day to day, in one way or another, these media measurements create climate, not climate measurements. One wonders whether we are still a democracy, whether we are even a parliament. After the Liberal Democracy with Anderlich's thumb has voted on the new Rules of Procedure, we have a limited speaking time in the debate room anyway. This is already a violation, a serious violation of democratic principles and parliamentaryism! But it was accepted. The then coalition, which is also today's coalition, has lit it up, and now we have what we have. And even when a person may speak within a limited period of time, his word is taken away, a microphone is turned off — something that is unacceptable anywhere in the world. One would expect someone who has a higher education, who knows languages, to watch some televisions and what kind of videos from other parliaments. There I would see how and why the President of Parliament never interrupts the speaker, but waits to speak to the end, and then reminds him or something like that. Not usually, either, because we are in Parliament to say what we think. Perhaps, however, it is in the current coalition and also in the President of the current National Assembly that this should be carried to the streets to be discussed on the road. But there is no discussion on the road with words, there is debate on the road with the gamblers who have already flown to the National Assembly, debate with anything and anything else. That's not what I'm for. I hope the president's not up for this either. I also hope that the coalition is not for this, although according to the work and the operation of how this is done in the National Assembly, the person said that some wanted this to be transferred out, but that there would remain an evacuation unit where some would cut their bread, not their needs. Just like it's been in these circles for some time now, especially in the coalition. I don't think such a president of the National Assembly deserves to continue his office. It is also interesting that his political option, the party really, will leave the coalition and he would still be president of the National Assembly. It is also a little confused with political ethics, very conflicted with political ethics, and it reminds us of various jumps mainly by DeSUS, where you don't know whether anyone else will be there or won't be there anymore, whether they will stay in the party or go out with the client, or will they go to any other party and so on. But that seems to be Slovenian. But only partially Slovenian, because, despite all of this, it is part of the Slovenian nation that does not think so, and this part is growing, and I hope that this part of its thinking will also show in the next elections that they will say: but now we have enough of everything. I think that by the time I vote next June or July, there will be a lot of similar things that will show people what this Parliament is like, what this coalition is like, what this House is like. In particular, if we look at the accompanying services of Parliament, which are under the command of the President of Parliament, a person would expect to make order without making it. What's more, he's brought in people who are close to him, and he allows them everything. In the National Assembly, in the services of the National Assembly, there is total dispersion; people are leaving, but of course new ones are coming, but on one who goes, two or three new ones come, of course, from certain political options or, even better, from friendly options. If that's good, I don't think it is. [[...]] I think this is disastrous for Slovenian Parliamentarianism, but some are about to destroy Slovenian Parliamentism and maybe go back to some one-party system where they already know who can say something and who can't. It is good that the current coalition does not have enough time, otherwise I am convinced that the President of the National Assembly would propose the reintroduction of an article sanctioning the so-called verbal delinquency. What's more than hate speech, verbal delinquency? It's just that they used to call him better, but now that we're going to the Americans in the lower back, it's called hate speech. Because hate speech is also what I know if you tell a snail it's a rabbit. Yet, many times it is only the truth told. It is true, however, that in this House, the President of the National Assembly, too, puts in particular the form, not the content. If I were to be spoken here by "merciful fellow Members and dear, dearest fellow Members", it would probably be all right, but such blisters could spend 25 minutes and no one would ever interrupt me. If I say that someone is stupid, that he does not understand, or even less, that he is an idiot, immediately the President stops, takes the floor, it is an hate speech. No, Mr President, this is not an hate speech. A hate speech is a specific thing, and it's not. But it's just an insult, some kind of weird insult, and not even for myself, but just in case, it's better that I break it off and that I'm insulted, because some colleague or colleague of mine might be offended, and so that she doesn't, I'm gonna take the man's word away. But this is not a job in Parliament. Such a serious president of the National Assembly cannot function. Perhaps it would be better if I got down to some things, but I would correct an English translation that still says that we are a congregation. But on the other hand, when I think about it, maybe we are still a congregation. Some still have in mind the congregation system, despite the fact that we have no longer had it since 1992, and so have seen us in the world — like an old relic of old times where those who ruled could afford anything. In our party we will support the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, in our parliamentary group, although we know that he will remain in this position, especially with the assistance of the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, but still. We'll tell our story and we'll tell ours. For in the SNS Group, we are the ones who speak out loud, in the face, not behind the back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! And a kind greeting to my President of the National Assembly, Paul Gantar, whom I am sure he will remain on this post today, for there are a little more than ten who have signed themselves, who are also willing to listen and to hear the so-called open word. It can be signed, and then in the National Assembly, where we talk about data, facts, to avoid this hearing. Colleagues and colleagues, for the second time in this mandate, as Head of the Group of Members, I represent the position of the LDS Club of Parliament until the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Let me say that, just as this time, we will not support the proposal for a discharge, since the applicants have not given any serious argument on the basis of which they could assess that Dr Pavel Gantar has not done his work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to which he is bound. What does the president of the National Assembly do in the first place, in view of the internal political situation, the collection of political points, the purchase of media time and cheap populism, that is to say, to be resolved quickly? The President of the National Assembly shall represent the National Assembly, the Assembly shall convene and chair the meetings of the National Assembly, sign the laws and other acts adopted by the National Assembly, take care of the implementation by law, law and the Rules of Procedure of certain relations with the Council of State, with the President of the Republic, with the Government and with other State bodies. Takes care of cooperation with representative bodies of other countries, with international parliamentary institutions and with international bodies and organisations. It shall take care of the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. It shall allocate matters to the working bodies of the National Assembly, decide on disputes concerning competence between working bodies, decide even on the official travel of Members abroad if no working body is competent for such a decision, and carry out other tasks in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And also paragraph 2 of Article 19 of our Rules of Procedure: "The President of the National Assembly shall exercise his office until the first meeting of the newly elected National Assembly." And that's what it's about, colleagues and colleagues, that there's nothing more sacred in this national council. Everything is necessary to achieve certain short-term objectives. To photocopy and falsify documents to replace a directly elected president of the country. We're at a time when some people don't like the anthem, they want it different. Some would like just such early elections, quickly, and today we would just like to replace the president of the National Assembly, because someone stole a political toy called the emergency session, and now they would just change it. Surely this is also a requirement for the resolution, as well as the first, of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The two parties submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting, which did not meet all business matters. In accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and in accordance with its obligations under the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly requested nothing more and nothing less from the applicants, except the completion of the request for an extraordinary meeting, which, by the way, did not happen for the first time and probably not for the last time. However, this time, unlike other cases, the applicants for the extraordinary meeting have not completed their request. Time was not right, nor would they have achieved the purpose they had set for themselves. In view of the fact that the completion of the material would mean the holding of an extraordinary meeting after a super referendum week, it was not even necessary for the applicants to correct the material in accordance with business requirements, since the main purpose of the meeting was to have this effect only before the referendum. However, if the material produced by the largest and smallest opposition party were to go to nothing, the candidates for the extraordinary meeting of the president of the assembly, who has only done what the rules of procedure imposed on him, have misused it in order to request his release, and today will be a time to speak about it for more than 7 hours. This is clearly one of the most important, most necessary anti-crisis measures proposed by the signatories. At the moment, neither reform nor public finances are important, but jobs and more. This moment is the most important resolution of the President of the National Assembly and all problems will be resolved in a moment. But we are already used to it, and people have overlooked these rather clear political games. The parties that propose this are not foreign to the creative regulation of documents, once again, to produce false accusations by the President of the Republic, are not foreign abuse of the rules of procedure to create the impression of some extraordinary situation, which they are trying to create themselves every moment and everywhere. So sung, it is now a modern term, the transition right obviously does not choose the means to achieve political objectives. Never and never show any reservations, nothing is sacred anymore, and so is today. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to participate constructively in this dirty political work at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I want us to devote these seven hours to more useful work and thinking. We will certainly follow the debate and, when necessary, also come forward. For perpetuating the media space and the public with populism conspiracy theories, business abuses, distortions of facts is not something worth our support. However, when certain matters are repeated persistently, again and again as lies in the debates and also in the presentations of the views of parliamentary parties, some truths must also be said and those most sang. They're talking about the NPU, and they're going to be told by the investigating authorities. And if something is wrong, it must be resolved, corrected, or taken responsibility. Bulmastifi — Who has already guided the investigation and led the prosecution if anything is wrong? NLB, prize – I don't know, I raised my hand for some marriage that brought 90% of this prize back to the budget. There's a lot of talk about new faces. I agree. Since independence, arms trade has always been one and the same. However, I am pleased to announce that they are withdrawing from the courts in cases which in democratic countries are already pre-absorbed of absurdity, doomed to failure, and serious and responsible politicians sometimes also swallow up on their own account and from their position of power do not run to court for protection. There was a talk today about cops, armed, and I don't know what else. I have no problem with them, as they do their job better and better. However, I have problems when armed Members walk through Parliament, those who are unjustifiably trading and conveying weapons from bombs forward, or with machine guns are invited to dance. But then I have problems, and that is when the president of the National Assembly sometimes takes a word for something inappropriate. Someone spoke in the initial, introductory explanations on common sense – I agree, I sign, only a healthy farm should have and use it. We will today, and the discharges of the President of the National Assembly will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Group of Non-Related Members, Solidarity will be discussed in relation to the request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for exactly as long as we believe that in this request it is rational core, to the extent that we believe it is justified and correct. This means that we will not participate in the debate, either of us. When we were deciding when we were reading the materials that were transmitted, we were thinking in particular about what this requirement and its eventual realization could contribute to making it easier and more effective to solve the social problem that is pressing for us. We can't find anything. What can this debate contribute to facilitating the economy's positive management? Nothing, either. What can we look forward to from such a debate for a different attitude to development, to our development policy, which is also a necessity? We can't find anything again. What could possibly contribute to such a discussion in order to become truly aware of what we all swear to — that we need to approach those activities that will lead to a low carbon society? And so we could list up until the time announced and list the zeros themselves in relation to the contribution that this debate or resolution could make. Therefore, not only will we not cooperate, but we will also oppose this proposal for a resolution, but we will also oppose very questionable views in the coming days and wait for what will happen, what this shrunken minority government, including a personalized one, can propose a good one for a debate in the National Assembly, which will be led almost entirely by the opposition after the new one. A really strange country, and our surprise for the coming days can't surprise anyone in particular. And it will be very interesting to keep up with those good proposals that will be proposed that we are ready to support. And once again, we are not prepared to support what this proposal for a resolution has actually been preparing – the spread of fire under the bush, on which the whole of the former coalition flourishes, by summarizing the essential points for the convening of an extraordinary meeting. We will not take part in the apologists of anyone, nor in the fact that they would enjoy the most when those on the boar are the ones that are the most incinerated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	Melita Župevc has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! At the invitation of the SDS MP following the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, we answer the Social Democrats with a 'no'. We will not vote in favour of the discharge of the President of Parliament because there are no reasons for it. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly does not speak of Paul Gantar. He's talking about the state of political culture here and now. He's talking about wanting to cause a parliamentary crisis, he's talking about wanting to create an emergency. And in this political game, Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats, as we say, will not participate. We will not even defend Paul Gantar in our deliberations. The current president of the National Assembly doesn't even need a defense. If anyone needs it, the institution of the National Assembly needs it as such, it needs a legislative branch of power, before abuse, before disrespect, before ignorance, before anyone who has five minutes of time will have to attack it irresistibly, whether with granite dice or with words. Secondly, in this mandate, we have a proposal on the table for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, and Members of the SDS are once again taking oaths to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the same Members who do not give much to legal acts, who use or abuse the rules of procedure as they wish and, as is best suited to them, who abuse the procedure when they can only, who invoke meetings that are not final, convene meetings without content. This proposal for a solution is a kind of abuse, because there is nothing but a list of proposals for public accounting with individuals, and it reflects the state of the spirit, not in this country, but in the party which writes such initiatives. Such an initiative as we have today cannot therefore be described as being indecisive. Why have not, as has already been said today, the candidates for the extraordinary meeting requested by the President of the National Assembly simply completed these requirements, in accordance with the rules of procedure to which they refer? Because it's probably not worth it. This debate is likely to have greater public reverberation; it will open up more media space. Some see it on the electoral horizon, and the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly is undoubtedly part of this pre-election campaign. The National Investigation Office, the Bulmastifs, Dars are so convenient themes that they can be undressed in just any request for an extraordinary session, useful at all times of the year, at all times. In this House we have discussed them for hours and hours, and whoever claims that we are avoiding this issue is lying. The language used by the SDS on the settlement proposal is also very important. This language speaks the most vividly of the attitude towards institutions, towards people, towards politics in general. Let me give you three examples, quote. "The President of the National Assembly acts as if these pigs, which are and are still happening at the NPU, Bulmastifs, Dars, AUKN, are in the recapitalisation of banks and elsewhere, in the national interest." Or, I quote, "The heathen's power is silent. The media doesn't care much either, because the public shouldn't be interested." The SDS is also disturbed by those, I quote, "who enjoy pensions based on special laws or privileges such as Milan Kučan, Dr. Not to mention everything that the current president of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, allegedly committed. And such explanations are written by politicians who want to rule this country, who represent themselves as the solvers of all problems. This is a level of political culture that is so eager to take power. Political opponents are being attacked in normal parliamentary democracies with arguments, not in the inn language. It cannot be disputed that citizens and citizens are not satisfied with the current policy. But, proponents, you're part of this policy, too. You, too, are part of this House and you are co-created by Slovenian political culture. This Parliament has so far, I hope, done its work responsibly and conscientiously – except for a few negative cases, for example, in January 2009, when the media also wrote: 'The National Assembly in Crisis'. This was at the beginning of the mandate when the SDS decided to insist in its stance until the coalition admitted that the Janša government had been successful and then the remaining procedure could continue. The opposition party has therefore decided to block Parliament's work until this Parliament recognises that Janša's government was the best. This is also a reflection of the parliamentary culture we co-create. The SDS contributed a brilliant proposal to the better condition of the spirit and reputation of Slovenian Parliamentarianism a while ago in order for all Members to be tested for the presence of drugs. Why don't we just test ourselves for honesty, for truthfulness? What is this policy that neither overcomes self-respect, based on the assumption that everything in this country is bad, that we are all morally questionable? What is this policy that does not go beyond respect for others? In this national assembly, we have listened to debates in this mandate that cannot be proud of us in which we should blush, debates about intolerance, disrespect, misunderstandings. In doing so, I would like to make one more point. It is not true that this Parliament is not fit to decide and that it places its decisions on citizens and citizens. This Parliament, under this coalition, has taken all important decisions in this mandate and has sent the SDS to the referendums most of them, for the country of important decisions. The referendum has become a tool of daily policy, abuse, just as it has become extraordinary meetings, relief requirements and so on. This is not our common policy, we are different in this. To take decisions means to bear responsibility and to postpone decisions to others means to avoid that responsibility. It's been 20 years of our independence. These are the days when we should feel pride, ascension, joy. And these days, of course, we should take a real look at where we are, what we've been on the road and what awaits us, how mature our parliamentary democracy is. Of course, we have problems; who does not have them today? What country in Europe or beyond is today immune to them? Yes, we have the unemployed, we have the blockade before the adoption of major structural reforms, we have a lot of discontent. Information on the dissatisfaction of citizens of Slovenia with democracy and central state institutions is worrying and shows that most are not satisfied with democracy as we live it. Despite the economic crisis, citizens are more satisfied with their material situation than with democracy. That's very significant. The economic situation is therefore not the reason for this. Among the worst rated are the parties and the National Assembly. And these parties and this national assembly are all who sit in it, all 90 Members and Members. And let me finally borrow the words of my colleague who said in the debate on the future of parliamentary democracy: "Democracy can only be a way of life if it is placed in a culture that values and executes it first in its central institutions." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Tanko has the floor on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! If I borrow a little: before the gates of heaven judge what goes into heaven and what doesn't, St. Peter. In the National Assembly, however, what will take place at the meeting of the National Assembly and what is not, his holiness Paul. Although no act we have in our country, no constitution, no Rules of Procedure, no other acts, does stipulate that the President of the National Assembly has any function or right in this case. It's not written anywhere. Therefore, before opening this debate, I would suggest to the President of the National Assembly that he read an article of the Constitution or of the Rules of Procedure, where that right is conferred on him to decide when a matter is going on at the meeting of the National Assembly and when it is not. This in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or anywhere else you will not find. And if someone decides, takes the right, be it the president of the National Assembly or anyone else to decide what is capable of the National Assembly, what the National Assembly is capable of and what it is, then abuse the function, abuse the power. This is what we are talking about in this National Assembly for the second time in this mandate. Secondly, the President of the National Assembly did not convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, although the Constitution states precisely in which cases it must be, and also in the Rules of Procedure, in addition to the time at which it must be carried out. This wasn't the first time, it's happened this time eight times, nine times. When the President of the National Assembly spoke of the fact that he had decided that it was not appropriate to refer to such a meeting before the referendum, since the applicants would abuse it for a free referendum campaign, he strongly exceeded the powers he had as President of the National Assembly. On the basis of such an assessment, the President of the National Assembly has no right to prevent the convening of an extraordinary meeting. It may be held by its political group, which the coalition, which supports, may also say out loud, but this is not the reason why the President of the National Assembly could decide not to convene. Some other things would suggest that we mention them. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was given and which came on 25 May, we added the same day, correcting these demands. We have not withdrawn the meetings requested on 13 May, just as you are trying to interpret the Rules of Procedure. You have sent us a proposal for a supplement, although I do not know why, because there was no reason or basis for it, but we have fulfilled this matter within that same day. And three days left for the President of the National Assembly to convene this meeting, but it is not. In his debate, he noted that the same President of the National Assembly had also, in his view, met the conditions for the convening of an extraordinary meeting at that time. He said this in the debate in his introduction. This is said to have caught himself on the lie, to have caught himself on knowingly decided to violate the Constitution and to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I understand that the coalition is holding a stand for these unscrupulous acts, but this isn't the first time. This coalition holds and supports its highest representatives, ministers, party presidents, in all acts charged with suspicions of corruption, clientism, predatory and so on. It has not yet happened in this National Assembly that, for example, one of the representatives, the leaders of any coalition party would condemn, say, the actions that are taking place in the pomurski law, in the affairs of a lady in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, that anyone would regret saying anything about the Ultra, Bulmastif or anything else to find out that there is something wrong with these matters. This has not happened in this National Assembly in this mandate. Mr President of the National Assembly could say in his introduction that on 21 April last year, on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we made a correction of the request, namely for an extraordinary meeting to address the alleged abuse of the police for political purposes and the alleged use of covert investigative measures. There was neither a new opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service nor a new reply from the President of the National Assembly, nor was the meeting convened. For a year and a few months, you didn't realize there was something wrong in this area. I believe that it is that someone is thus free to interpret, when someone has the right to request an extraordinary session and when not unacceptable. For this we have the rules enshrined in the Constitution, and for this we have the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the first among us does not respect the rules set out in these documents, it is clear that no one respects them and that this is the norm which has become the rule in this mandate. That's the norm. Also, the fact that we have requested an extraordinary meeting to address the discharge of the President of the National Assembly – we have not received any opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service – has been called for. The President shall not refer to any opinion, but this meeting, this item of the agenda, shall not be invoked in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and as requested, nor shall it be at a time to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, what are we gonna do? Is the President of the National Assembly the one who is arbitrating about when he will call, how he will convene, or is he obliged to follow in his decisions what both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure command him? Here are some of these acts you quoted. I doubt you've understood them. I doubt you've understood what you've read. You've only read so much that you went there time into that quota you announced. There are some other things that need to be pointed out. Some of you here spoke mainly of Janez Janša. Half of the discussions in the positions of the coalition parliamentary groups were devoted to the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Janez Janša. If I know correctly, I signed a document that does not contain a single word, with one word. Not Miheljak, not Janša, not the arms trade, not the conquest, I don't know what. I signed a request with specific matters relating to the banking system, to the National Investigation Office, to the Bulmastife and to Dars. In any of these points, SDS President Janez Janša is not involved. He did not participate in these matters, which are taking place in this mandate, in any of these matters. But they participated, decided and guided the procedures in these matters, in fact, all those who are at key positions in the coalition, the referees, the leaders of the parliamentary groups or the parliamentary clubs, all those who have participated in the common clauses in the Hill or elsewhere, all those who have made decisions on the saints of their customers, all those who have fainted when these issues were identified, and confirmed and voted against anyone who has even been intertwined. And then we experience some statements at some bad times by some leaders of coalition parliamentary groups, when they find that we should have done something long ago or that those against whom the interpellation or the investigation process in the National Assembly should have resigned themselves. That's how it is. And this misdirection that we are witnessing in this term of the National Assembly does not lead anywhere. He's not going anywhere. That means you're aware of all the traps, all the problems, all the illegalities, all the clientele and corrupt practices, but you're not able to react because they're your own because they're your client presidents because they're your ministers. That's why. All the grounds are for doing things differently within client programmes, within client acts, if we are already talking about these internal matters, especially because certain matters are being and are being investigated on the basis of criminal laws or the Penal Code. Some of them even take place on official duty. And the President of the National Assembly has decided to hold a four-point meeting on four major problems, including the Slovenian economy, if you want, because the banking system is part of the Slovenian economy, Dars is the biggest investor in this country – do not let it speak. Don't let him talk. You're blocking the debate. In fact, your arguments are not based on solid grounds. Even before the advent of the Golobič affair, when the President of the Party did not properly inform the public of whether or not he has property in an institution established abroad, there was a significant press conference of the leadership of Zares, which was attended by Secretary General Bogdan Biščak and by Mr Franci Kek, Minister who will soon be ex, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, and President of the National Assembly Pavel Gantar. And there the secretary-general of your party said that everyone who was there would do the same as Mr Golobič, so that we would be lying. No one denied it, no one denied it, even though written calls were also sent to comment on the matter. No one's reacting. And now you, who would do the same as Mr Golobič, your Minister, are selling to us that we are forging, that we are forging, that we are citing things in some unconstitutional and non-business way. How can you do that? You who, with a statement already in 2009, covered the conduct of your party president, Mr Juri. There were your representatives and they covered his conduct. Interesting! And now you're talking and moralizing about whether or not we have the right to invoke the motions. You're talking about not wanting to talk about economic issues. The recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor is an economic topic. A few hundred million euros of money went into this bank through and through which it even triggered conflicts in the coalition. State money was invested, in one case budgetary and in the other case free funds from companies, Post Slovenia, Eles Gen, Gen Energy – who else? By way of derogation from the decisions of any competent authority. And when you talk about us calling some extraordinary meetings and that the National Assembly is not responsible for, say, a debate on the banking system and the Bank of Slovenia, both banks are in majority state ownership. Just a few days ago, on 14 June, you convened an urgent meeting of three committees, economies, finance and transport, just to get busy and to cover the recapitalisation of Adria Airways. And what else is interesting? Let me tell you. The material sent by Adria Airways came to the National Assembly on the same day. Same day. I would like to know whether the President of the National Assembly has given the Rule of Law to the Office to verify whether this request is justified, whether it is clear that the matter would be discussed in the National Assembly or not. When he answered or asked me to correct this request as the first person to sign that meeting, he wrote nothing concrete about why it should be. He simply wrote that some of the terms were indeterminate or inappropriate, that a proposal for a recommendation was not admissible and that it was not clear whether they were four or one items of the agenda – but it was clear that the text had also been written 1, 2, 3, 4 and that the recommendations to paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 had been made, and that you had also set the EPA as a last resort. Then you were even disturbed by the incorrect addresses of certain acts because we wrote "proposals of recommendations" instead of "proposals of recommendations". Mr President of the National Assembly wrote one page why he rejected our request. I must say, there is no argument in it. And when he wrote down that some of the terms are indeterminate and when we read which term is indeterminate, Mr President of the National Assembly relied on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that it is impossible to determine exactly what the concept of the Slovenian banking system means. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! It is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who would not know what the banking system means, almost from the baby forward. And there's one more thing. During this term of office of the National Assembly, we have revised the Banking Act – Dr. Gantar, President of this National Assembly – three times, and this is said in the opinion, the same opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and no one has found anything inappropriate, vague or inconclusive. We've fixed this law three times, and even the Legal and Legal Service says that the Banking Act uses that term. So, what do you want from the candidates for this extraordinary session? Do I remember a new expression? Should we define the Slovenian banking system differently than it is stipulated in the law? Here you can see an argument as to why this meeting had to be mined in one way or another, by all means. When the president wrote down that it was not an appropriate term, we wrote at Dars that we expected the government to do so and so on. And specifically for this explanation in this explanation, the Legislative and Legal Service states that this term is not appropriate. Expecting the National Assembly to do something about it is an inappropriate expression. Understand who can. Understand who can. President of the National Assembly, if you would like to write to me that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done everything in the case of Dars, you have made a mistake. But we have expressed our expectations that the Government will, in accordance with its powers, act against the Capital Investment Management Agency to move forward with Darsa and so on. Impossible demands you've made before us. But it is important that in your debate you also said that the two points met all the criteria for calling an extraordinary meeting, after completion. But you didn't call the meeting, either with those two points! We haven't withdrawn the request, and neither have you. You proposed a supplement. It is said that the procedure has been under way and we have proposed corrections in an open procedure in due time. It was only on 31 May that we withdrew the request for an extraordinary meeting, not before. And this manipulation that the President of the National Assembly allows himself, when the proceedings begin, is inappropriate. See how you acted in the case of other acts when you requested a supplement! I do not think that this is how this matter and this national assembly can be managed. I think that the problem is also that the President of the National Assembly does not have any mandate to decide what the applicants thought or what the applicants were going to do or why they filed a request on 13 May and not on 15 or 25 May or 3 days earlier. This is not the job of the President of the National Assembly. And this suggestion that on 13 May we have filed a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly because we wanted to buy free dates or a term in the pre-referendum campaign is your fiction and your hinting. It's abuse! Mr President of the National Assembly, we will tell you clearly what we are proposing, what we want, when we want and why. We do not need any representative of any parliamentary political group, not from the LDS, not from Zares, nor from the Social Democrats. Also, the way you act when you boast about what this moment is like in the National Assembly, what a crisis it is and what a mercy it is for the opposition to have even three representatives, three leadership functions in the National Assembly, which are by the opposition — that is no mercy. This is just another perversion that has taken place in the National Assembly, when we have the parties in the opposition at the same time and have the key functions of their representatives on the other hand, and in fact in some very untransparent way support the Government's particularly bad proposals. By formally going to the opposition, you will take the opposition's opportunity to ask the Prime Minister's questions, which has already happened, and you will be the four who will ask the coalition's parliamentary questions. You have thus achieved that the opposition will have a majority in the investigative commissions and will adopt conclusions that will, at the will of the coalition, be accepted by the opposition. And you, on behalf of the opposition, will achieve this by deciding on all sales of state property, what is left of it – this strategy will now come to the National Assembly – and by doing so you will burden and extend this burden to the opposition. This is your goal and your mission. The same is true of the law with which you intend to privatize public institutions. These are your goals. And by the time the minority government receives uncritical support, you will be trading state property so that this support will continue to work for the government and that you will perform all that is formally impossible as representatives of the coalition. That's your goal. Practically for all the things to be adopted, the opposition will say that it has also supported the proposals proposed by the Government, that is, the Government's bad proposals. There is a great deal of this in the management strategy for state property. It would be very good if those of you who so vehemently express your support to the President of the National Assembly are critical to your actions, to the actions of your coalition partners and also to the actions of the President of the National Assembly, even though he is your party's companion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not gonna deal with this too much. I must say, I have closely followed the proposal of explanation for my dismissal. Colleagues, who were present, found that in 14 minutes the representative of the proposer spent 2 minutes working with me and with a solution proposal, while the rest was a talk about bulmastiffs, NPUs, Dars and so on. I will not participate in this debate. I have to say again, above all, that I was unable to convene the meeting because the request was withdrawn. It was completed, a new deadline began to run, a deadline would be set, and those points that met the conditions would go into consideration. That didn't happen. I'm sorry. Your request that my discharge be considered at an extraordinary session, and to repeat it again, I'm a little surprised. For God's sake, if you're not able to write the reasons why you're proposing an extraordinary discharge session, then let me know, and I'll write it for you and I'll sign it so you can have such an extraordinary session. I do not care if this discharge is being considered at a regular or extraordinary meeting. But only 27 signatures are not 27 reasons, and 4 more; colleagues Wheeler was not there at the time. These are not the reasons, these are the signatures for which these reasons are supported. Other things you just have to say. The topic, such as the problem or policy of the government towards banks owned by a majority of the state, is, of course, an important dilemma, whether recapitalisation by public funds or some other form of capital adequacy assurance, and is also an ecclatantically professional political and political theme, and belongs to the National Assembly – if proposals for action and proposals for decisions or recommendations are made by the government, or even the formulation of policies in this area, which we can do, are properly designed. They weren't. But we can't discuss drawing in this debate banks that have nothing to do with it in private ownership, and as Arhar once said, the governor, now the director of one of these private banks: "Money is a shy bird." We must not contribute further to the fragile balance of the banking system by making a general debate about this. There must also be some responsibility, as well as the self-restraint and awareness that the National Assembly cannot discuss just as well outside the framework enabling it to do so. The other thing that is, of course, is that I will not repeat myself on matters that I have already mentioned. I would simply like to mention to my colleague Jelinčič that it is true that this Parliament is not happening what it would call a road, but that Parliament should not be going like a road. Parliament must not happen as a road. This means that hard words can be used. In my opening remarks, I also said that I would rather allow a word too little than a word, although we are also risking it, but there must be some fundamental atmosphere and expectation of some fundamental respect for the interlocutor. If that is not the case, then Parliament looks like a road, and this cannot be allowed. When I can, I try to do it in a kind way. When I walk around the world, through parliament, when I go, I always ask myself how sanctions are regulated in parliaments. They know the same things everywhere, they interrupt the speaker, which happens often, they take away words, they remove themselves from meetings. This has not happened to us, at least not in my mandate. They're fined financially. That's not possible with us, and so on. That's a lot. And it is true that our Parliament is still relatively calm in this respect, there are no attacks, there are no interferences, there are no beatings, and I hope that will remain so. As far as employment is concerned. This is what really bothers me — when grades just fall. Here one must go, so come two new ones and the employment is increasing; that is also what Comrade Jelinčič said. Let me put it this way. In the National Assembly, we have reduced the number of employees in this mandate, reduced the staffing plan, saved and adjusted the systematisation and better organised the work. As for employment in the services of the National Assembly, everything goes through the call for proposals. We've reduced the number of employees, which is [[Incomprehensible]] also the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We have reduced the number of systems in this mandate; in the services of the National Assembly, employment is falling. In 2005, 263 people were employed, at the end of 2009 282 people, June 2011 270 people. So much for that. I've read that information. I only hope that you will not stop me from doing this, because this would possibly be the only reason that I have to reduce the number of employees and in some way reduce your staff capacity and help you in the work of the National Assembly. That might even be the reason. It was also mentioned that I sent the Deputy Secretary-General to the SDS Group to convince them not to submit or withdraw the request for an extraordinary meeting. Of course that's not true. I didn't send anyone anywhere. If Mr. Plevelje went, he went on his own initiative or whatever. I didn't send anyone, and I didn't even think of doing it. As far as the content or this matter is concerned, once again. With regard to Dars and all these matters, the point absolutely fulfils the conditions for hearing in the proceedings in the National Assembly and also in the ordinary session, but as you know, if two laws or decisions are the same in this case which deal with the same matter, the principle of order shall apply. Once the decision proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances is processed, the conditions for dealing with this material will arise if you decide to do so. So I'm supposed to be here to tell you I'm cutting these things short, and it's totally not serious. All meetings which have not been held have not been held for a reason. The case concerning the suspicion of police investigative action in the National Assembly would, by its definition, in fact, mean direct interference with police procedures, however defined. And the fact is, in the proposal of 20. 4. The requests were not even submitted to all the signatures of the applicants, as is the result of the text of the request. And also about the police sergeant at the National Assembly. The National Assembly, like most parliaments in Europe and in the world, does not enjoy any special immunity as an object. If you want to enjoy yourself, make a suggestion. I'm not making this proposal. Members do not enjoy immunity in pre-investigation proceedings when they are suspected of criminal offences, but they can obtain it when the case is initiated. You didn't ask for that immunity. In one case or another, no one has ever voted on any immunity. Then why do you owe the President of the National Assembly? Above all, I would say that during this time I was with my colleague Barovic at the airport and went to Skopje. So all the hints of how I organized it with the police and so on are really unworthy and out of the vine, and I will not even answer them anymore, because it really is completely irrelevant to me. I find that we have different views on what the National Assembly is. For me, the National Assembly is kind of our common home, our common house, where it works and is at work, we could say, the so-called argumentative speech, the speech of reasoning, persuasion, and a speech that implies the same position for each of us. This speech, which is here in Parliament, especially on your part, is often a speech from some enlightened position of omniscience, teaching, teaching, accusing, far from what you might say after Habermas – I hope that this word is not too difficult – a real communication action. I'm sorry about that. I am sorry that some of you do not know this, you are not able to take over, because for you the National Assembly is just a tool to achieve your political objectives. For me, the National Assembly is never just a tool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. How do you make fascism? To legitimize politics, to undermine every institution in the country, to give power to the streets, to create enemies, to offer a leader. I do not draw any parallels between SDS and fascism with this, but it is only right that we pay attention at this time to developments in society. Indeed, we are in a time of global economic crisis, and we know what followed this many decades ago. I can list some constructive, state-of-the-art ideas of the SDS: an example of the constitutional indictment of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Danil Türk, of course, without an adequate legal basis, the multiple resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the challenge of the legitimacy of the election of the leadership of the judiciary and the judiciary, attacks against the Constitutional Court, archiving, the supremacy of state prosecutors, the creation of a great brother paranoia, someone from the rear, a transitional left, communist totalitarianism, the politicisation of the operation of the Owl, listening, tracking, irresponsible populism, the distortion of pension reform, last week's family code fraud. Even at the presentation, you said that the same-sex partners would be able to adopt foreign children, which, of course, is not true. You said that neighbourhood aid would be banned, that meals would be cut short, and so on. It is a lie that the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, did not wish to convene an extraordinary meeting. He asked for a supplement, and when he wanted to call it, you no longer wanted it because it was not on the right time because it was not at the time of the pre-referendum campaign, and therefore there is no reason to vote in favour of its resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Majhenič has the floor to prepare Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is interesting when some speak and discuss SDS and SNS, which were signatories. It is incomprehensible that they evaluate things that have not been said and say that they just think that way. You know, thinking is nothing to know. When some people talk about others and hate speech, it would be right to imagine and analyze their own sentences. They will find that they are not different in the performance of the hate speech, but they have said the matter differently, but they are the same, and they do not even know it, perhaps because they think they are something more. The mistake must have been enough and we don't have to learn from it. Now we need to take the correctional exam and take the boat to more calm waters. Those who ruled and co-created the coalition also signed a coalition treaty that they are committed to leading the country, both ministers and Members, not least the President of the National Assembly. None of those who left the boat and left the country to drown certainly washed away irresponsible behaviour in the coalition and the government, but acknowledged the inability to create and continue work in the government and probably also in Parliament, which the voters will punish or reward. For the will, the incompetence, and the irresponsible conduct are judged only by the electorate. I would like to say about the leadership and work of the President of the National Assembly that he has been unjustly wrong many times after he has been warned and interrupted by members of the Slovenian National Party, who are obviously thorns in the five parties, which was obvious, and that has also been pointed out by people from outside. And it is true that so far there has been no such sensitivity to a particular customer in all previous managements in 20 years, and it is only necessary to reflect on this. Leaving the government and coalition when the country is in trouble and is the worst, it is corrupt for me and not only irresponsible. It would therefore be right for such actions to be publicly condemned, because the situation we have is not the fault of the opposition and the largest coalition party, but those who themselves have eliminated themselves and admitted that they did not care about the state, but followed only their own objectives, the interest of the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Anderlich has the floor to prepare Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	Your Honor! It is difficult to say today that we are dealing with serious charges against the President of the National Assembly concerning his bridely work, work in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the like, because what is written is earlier borderline or similar to what you have been able to fix, copy and edit history in some archival material. When you look through the entire text, it's not really clear what this exercise is all about. It's written like this accusation, like you really want no one to support it, and you believe yourself that it would be better if it wasn't supported. None of the observations, although any of them met the conditions for hearing at the National Assembly, were made in such a way that the National Assembly could deal with it, on the basis of this, adopted it, i.e. after the discussion also the relevant conclusions, but you recycle some of the accusations, some of them even from some interpretations, some of your meetings, some of them from other sources again, which is all at the limit of what we can say very, very little credibility in the content itself, let alone purpose. The purpose has already been rejected in this case. Load on the table and fold some sort of order of papers that have been all over or over-published and 100 times chewed, rejected, argumentatively rejected readings that you repeat here – and you repeat it and repeat it, because it is obvious that more than once, it is more likely that something will happen in the public eye, and this is what you are going to do. I regret that you have not written down at least any matters, but for which it would be justified to discuss them, let us say, the role of the President of the National Assembly in the last decision of the Constitutional Court. It is free that he now pours ashes on how it is a pack for Parliament, how I do not know what it is and so on, but if we look at it in detail, you will see that he has uncritically covered the work of some of the presidents, in particular this President, to whom the Constitutional Court ruling applies, as well as some other working bodies in the National Assembly, such as the petition committee, the Internal Policy Committee. The Internal Policy Committee has 5, 6 unfinished emergency meetings, citing them without relevant documents, only with the effect of putting pressure on the public. This is contrary to the rules of procedure. And the President of the National Assembly is obliged to act in this case. I don't know why you didn't write this down to discuss it. The rules we have coordinated have been in the drawers for a year, two and so on. But of course, you are not interested in improving the work of the National Assembly in order to strengthen the role of the President of the National Assembly, so that he does not have to deal with the cases I have discussed. You have contributed to this, you work in this way and then you accuse third things because for the public it's the way we do it, the way we coordinate work inside the house, the way we do it is dry. Repeating one and the same lies at all times is productive and at least something is happening. In order you can go and find out what things are that have been read in the past, not once, a hundred times, and you will see how they have been rejected, how they have been argued. What the National Assembly can't do, but you can't expect the National Assembly to do. If the prosecution has to do something that directs things, if it has to do justice that judges, if it has to do another authority in this country, you certainly can't ask behind this pay phone that you will, in principle, do everything that doesn't suit you, anything that you don't want to do differently, but that you would want to hide some things that you don't like and are drawn back from the past. You're incredibly impatient and impatient when you have to be accused of putting some topics on the agenda before you clear up any of them that are dragging and dragging, and you don't want to be involved. It's better to point your finger, it's better to sue, it's better to yell at the National Assembly, to pretend you're being wronged. Never before, and also all those eyewitnesses who speak about the rules of procedure, that cannot be said, that I do not know what and so on, are not justified. Today's seven-hour debate shows that everyone, if they have anything on the subject, can say about the thing that is supposed to be on the agenda. However, it is necessary to give someone time when he manages to come to the National Assembly to have a third of the time we spend here, but then he would have taken hours and hours and discredited, evaluated the work of others, including personal disqualifications here. Of course, there is no obstacle here, or it is right that the rules of procedure are designed in such a way that all of this cannot and cannot be done indefinitely. As it is said, I believe that from what you have written here and what you are explaining today, there is no other conclusion that can be drawn than that it is up to you that everything that is not yours, which is away from you, sucks and needs to be discredited. That's why I believe you even want this request not to be supported. But I believe that many of you also think that this is written just to illustrate this show in the context of all the critics of the government, the coalition, the general state of the country, for which history will certainly not only be judged by the way that everyone else was mean, evil, bad, ineffective, and you were the only ones who could save Slovenia. Believe me, this history will also assign you some objective responsibilities, not just praise as you would like.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Mr Anderlič said in his debate that we only repeat lies. As regards the National Investigation Office and all these matters related to rental contracts, rents, moving, identification, procedures and so on, there are no lies. These are the facts that are documented. What is now happening to this new bidder for the National Investigation Office, Mr Anderlič, is also facts. These are documents published on the website. As regards the debate, for example, in the Bulmastifs, new facts came at that time. Finally, new blood stains were discovered, including elsewhere, somewhere in the other part, and the cameras finally came to light. There's something to be said about that. These aren't lies. These are the facts. The fact that there was a recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank without the State Assembly being informed or aware of anything, or the New Credit Bank of Maribor, and that there had been an intervention of state assets in the recapitalisation by the conflict in the coalition was likely a fact. And on state property, where the state has more than 51%, it is probably possible to request a debate in the National Assembly. And this isn't about any lies. That the ratings of both banks have fallen, after Moody's, after Fitch and so on, is clear and is accessible to the public. But to prevent a debate about it, but it is vile, and accuses those who want to discuss it, to abuse and not know what. It's a very similar story to Dars, very similar. The largest public investor ignores the meetings of the budgetary control commission several times in a row; the President of the National Assembly is silent and does not react. And then those who request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss it are accused of blocking and preventing something. On the contrary, it is the coalition that does not want to discuss economic issues in the National Assembly, not the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor to prepare Mr Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! Parliament's supervisory function stems from the Constitution, and Parliament's supervisory function is forgotten too often, although it is, after the constitution, if we read it carefully, at least as important as the basic legislative function, which is somewhat closer to people. However, the supervisory function is extremely important, for it is the only one who, through its consistent implementation, allows any authority to not be corrupted, perverted, or vampirized. That is why, of course, the full exercise of this function is not only a constitutional category, but also in the obvious public interest and one of the foundations of democracy. And this supervisory function has been repeatedly curtailed by the conduct of the current President of Parliament. As with the convening of the meetings, and that is why we are also talking today about the content of individual points, while Mr Gantar is moving again and says he will not talk about it. For it was impossible for us to discuss what we were obliged to do after the constitution, in the normal manner, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and now we are forced to speak today. In addition, let me add some other facts that have not yet been addressed. Unbelievable abuses of the Rules of Procedure have begun in this House. One of them is the total blockade of the work of one of the investigative commissions, where three people have already been proposed as witnesses, although it is clear to anyone with little knowledge, and above all to those who have knowingly lied and deceived the public that these people have had no connection with the decision-making or the official procedures themselves in the Patria case. And who held the stand, who made all this possible, who even stood up publicly for such abuses? Mr. Gantar. This is indeed a problem, for this means that it has deliberately prevented the implementation of one constitutional institute and will be very interesting to see its behaviour – because there has been sufficient waiting, the Commission is waiting, and the SDS has proposed a replacement, the new Commission President Mrs Eva Irgle – if it will be half an hour after her appointment as Mr Gantar among the candidates or those who will again make the proposal for her immediate call as a witness. For she was exactly as I was a member of the SDS Council in the previous term, and according to exactly the same logic, according to exactly the same legal criteria you will have to call her as a witness immediately, and each of us will, of course, also. This is, of course, the absurdity of everything you do, and this is also proof that it is a matter of manipulation, of the abuse of the procedure and of the law for which, in addition to those who have carried it out directly, the President of Parliament is responsible, because it makes it possible to do so. However, if this proposal is not available, then it is clear that it was only a matter of fear, because obviously I went to the right place, that it was a matter of buying weapons after the order of the government of Robb, following a decision of the SD, LDS, also of the current Zares, because he is a real direct successor, and of course LDS, and that several times in the previous mandate there was a grave violation of the rules of the game in force in Europe, in particular by the actions of Mr Squil, who invited someone who was even the leader of the opposite project, as it later appeared from some documents which are now available to the public, and which, according to European criteria, was a corrupt act. But in order to block it from reaching the end, Mr Gantar, among others, also took care of it, because this story needs to be reheated again and again and again and again – now some books are being implemented – so as not to experience epilogues. The epilogue should first be experienced by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, and obviously we have begun to discover the true face of this story, which went to the great and sole detriment of the SD and LDS, which together decided to purchase weapons, and we have discovered that behind the kubaji peacekeeping work of the ruling coalition, the obvious purpose of the futuring at the expense of the taxpayers of a particular part of the arms industry is what we usually call the Systemic Tech or their owners. As a result, the procedure had to be misused and the parliamentary investigation blocked in this part, and the President of Parliament also had this responsibility. It is also clear, of course, that there will be no judicial epilogue for some time. For five years we listened to the story: yes, but in the end the court will say its own. And then indeed now the court has begun to deal with this matter, and for five years we have listened by all of you gentlemen, who are not here today, empty chairs SD and a handful of LDS and Really, which you insist on: evidence will be presented in court! There was no evidence in court or Berglund, it was just a lie. A spoiled lie where silence whispers. Do you know this address? Your lie, ladies and gentlemen, always warmed up when they're near the election. And that's why you had to humiliate me and my family and compare me to Goebbels. And you will not believe that two of the presidents of the parliamentary parties have found so much courage and human ethics that they have distanced themselves from doing so. The President of Parliament, who should react first, never. Again where the silence whispers. Or legally, ladies and gentlemen, who remain silent, agrees. And that, of course, proves that the function is an incompetent person. This is also the reason for the replacement, at least it should be in a normal democratic state. But what is essential, and what I think must be at the forefront of today's decision, is that so the introductory speech by the largest government party has ended its point: "Social Democrats, the SD does not want to participate in creating emergency situations." Now I am asking you why the work of Parliament's supervisory function had to be blocked. So as not to reveal what this coalition and its government are really doing. If we put this together in one sentence, SD and the entire coalition, including those who are now gathering political points to go a little bit further, it does not work the other two and a half years as it does creating an extraordinary situation in this country. The best evidence is this situation today — empty chairs, when we have a government from which someone leaves every day, and this creates an extraordinary situation. And we have a coalition from which obviously, every day, someone's leaving, and it's also creating an extraordinary situation. Those who insist on a government that obviously has no confidence in the public and that I no longer know what kind of support even within the coalition actually create a state of emergency, every day when they put their chairs in the care of their own pocket, when they care about the public interest and the development of this country. For what would it be like for Parliament to exercise its supervisory function? That we are ruled by a coalition of incompetence and incompetence. And that's the problem, and that's what we should be facing all the time, and we tried to do our best in the opposition. That's why you blocked us. Previously it was said that we should test for truthfulness. Yes, I agree, as well as on economic performance and expertise, only then do I fear that most members of the ruling coalition would remain at the door, at least today they have shown themselves by what they have been saying here. Let me just mention that Mr. Anderlich, I'm going to go by the names, talk about repeating a lie. Who has been lying to you in this House? I recall the words of the Minister of the Interior, who, at the same time, happens to be the president of the party belonging to Mr Anderlič, this is the LDS, when it has repeatedly claimed, and the ministry and the service, as well as how the bullmastif dogs, with the exception of one, were euthanised by the veterinarian, were in the affair. Then came some record on the world web and it turned out that everyone was shot, some from above, with multiple bullets. This is said to have been an obvious deception in order to conceal some part of the story. We don't even talk about going on when everything was going on. And if you ever choose a sign, you can put as many as three bulmastifes in the flag, but above all do not read to others about the repetition of lies, because as many times as lies by the present authority have been repeated in this House goes beyond all reasonable limits, and in particular any political ethics. Let me remind you, too, when you were talking about repeating a lie, as did Jude in the Bible, repeatedly denied knowing this man when it came to the issue of the NPU and funding with that leasing, and then a picture was published in a newspaper where they were happy and smiling together with a joint gift at a joint event. How's that? And we had, as a colleague said, a certain place, a certain person, a certain non-truth, everything was known. But when you have to call someone to account – no, that's not, that's our man. The Gores know what that means, our man. And obviously that's all that logic is. But also in the case of incompetence, once again, you said so nicely to your colleagues when you were in the introduction, even your official representative said that, "Some people would like to change our anthem." You know what, fellows, I ask you to at least let the Constitution read, because you've been Members for two and a half years, because then you show this inexplicability and ignorance. Because if we read it, we'd know that in Article 6, paragraph 3, it says, "Animal Slovenia is a toast." It doesn't say the 7th article of the toast or I don't know what, but the toast, the whole toast. According to our legislation, and so provides for the next paragraph, the law can only determine the use of an anthem, but not in any way cut it or split it. And that's the problem. And the problem is euthanasia. For some members of the coalition, in order to refresh your memory, claimed, for the last time, so vehemently, that they sang in this Chamber, in Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, only that seventh kitica. But then, you won't believe it, but yesterday there was a repeat television show where everyone in Parliament, in the first place with Milan Kučan, was so beautiful and defensively singing the other article "God Our Land, God Lives All the Slovenian World". Isn't it nice for everyone in the modern world to be nice, very quick to lie when they're playing amnesia. And that's it. With this proposal, we did not want anything but to implement consistently the constitutional norm and, of course, the tradition that was once present in this House. And she wasn't here, she was there, she was there, she was there, she was there, because the toast was singing a lot in that period. So much for that. It is also clear why Parliament is not allowed to function normally – because you are afraid of the truth. That's all you're afraid of. What I have said many times: today is no longer the word "stop the right" today is the password of the entire transition left just "stop the truth". And by the way, after that, you're actually becoming like left-wing customers, even around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri has the floor to prepare Mr Kumer or Mr Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First, I would like to ask the proposer why we are not discussing the Bulmastifs today, and what other topics you wanted to discuss here instead of discussing today this point. No, you did not accept, unfortunately, the possibility of discussing all these issues immediately after that referendum. That's not what you wanted, that's not what you were interested in. You were aiming for the day, two days before the referendum, and then suddenly your interest in all these issues disappeared and you updated your engagement on the subject of the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. This topic is very broad and we talk about it practically. We have also heard comments regarding the journalist Berglund and the defendants who are burdening the president of your party. But we could add something to this, because yesterday your same president did not have the face to appear in a court where the columnist of the Journal was accused of having a personal opinion written down on the incompetence of the previous mandate. He sent a lawyer, and the lawyer immediately realized what time it was, and she understood that the charge was absurd. And first she wanted to make a pact to create a path position, and then she withdrew the indictment and your president will also pay the costs. So if we're talking about everything, let's also talk about how things are. The fact is that, as I said earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group, your goal is to create an atmosphere and state of mind, where all that is allowed is in a typical American or cowboy salon where they like to shoot a pianist and they usually put the word "do not shoot a pianist". It's not his fault. It is not his fault if even the opposition is unable to create a situation where dialogue and democratic dialectic would be the only way to confront today's situation and today's crisis. So this debate, where the hall is essentially empty, is another attempt at stalling, creating tension in a country where we will find once again that Slovenia is divided into two camps, into that camp which considers that such a style is unnecessary, and into a camp which considers that only such style is necessary. Here, Mr Gorenak is helping me to theatre something that is very close to the party that presented this debate, which is based on the facts we know from the previous mandate, so that we do not repeat everything that has been done in the previous mandate. However, something has never happened in the previous term, and Mr Cukjat will be able to confirm. When Mr Cukjat was the President of this National Assembly and, in the opinion of the opposition, allowed himself to make a number of moves that were not the most acceptable and transparent in terms of parliamentary and national democracy in terms of opposition, I will not now issue any valuable assessments, but I do not remember that the opposition would then demand the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Was there any similar discussion about the discharge of the President of the National Assembly? I don't think so, I don't remember. I may be wrong, you may deny me, but the kind of debate we're having at the expense of Dr. Paul Ganttar, the current president of the National Assembly, I don't remember. I don't even remember the extreme moves that your request for resolution was, following the impression of the President of the Republic, the President who was directly elected in the democratic elections. I don't remember the opposition ever getting up when the president of the country is speaking and leaving this hall. This has happened in this mandate, which has been extremely unworthy. And maybe it'll happen again. We may still be witnessing such and other obstructions, which present very negative messages to the public, very undemocratic messages to the public, because the evaluation of institutions representing the whole country, all citizens, and to which you have repeatedly shown a lack of basic respect, i.e. basic bonton. And this beating on the president of the National Assembly is just a continuation of this story. We would prefer not to participate in this and we would like to leave this meeting today, but we are aware of the importance of this debate, because any such debate is as important at the symbolic level as it is irrelevant at the practical level. With this debate today, we will not add any added value to either the state or society, at least to the economy and to the expectations of our citizens. However, we will certainly prove once again what are the mental patterns of the coalition, opposition or undeclared, and what mental patterns prevail especially with the biggest opposition party, which thus proves its inexpressible democratic essence. You come from patterns that bind to the past, and I feel something Bolshevik right in the functioning of SDS. You're closest to that concept, thinking, actually revolutionary. In my younger years, I'd even applaud you, say jacks, dudes, those who can get to power on shortcuts. But times are ripe for democracy, and democracy is a necessity, especially in times of crisis, when fear prevails, when mistrust prevails, a spiritual state that is at the bottom when people think that democracy is not the right recipe, that it is necessary to find a leader and take a decisive step into the new future. You know, these temptations are dangerous. And when I hear your vocabulary, when I get to know your mental patterns and what's behind these demands, I'm a little scared. When I see what is going on in some other European countries, in Hungary, for example, what could happen elsewhere if we were to see the breakdown of democratic parliamentary systems, where there are populisms, where we are dominated by backward ideas, when we go back to history and we want to regain the fundamental rights that have been guaranteed not only in the last 20 years, I hope to say that even in the last 30 years, because the last decade in the previous system has been much more innovative, more advanced and even more democratic than some of the recipes you are offering today. The family code is the lacumus paper of these statements. There we see and understand who is behind the stick, who is for restoring history back, who is for returning to a restaurant of some values that are not in line with the modern, modern, open society that some still stand for. Don't be offended if I'm telling the truth and it hurts, I'm sorry. But this is the task of every parliamentary officer in mature democracy. I hope I'm not offensive, although I know that my words are hard, direct and that they give you some understandable reactions and reactions. However, the fact is that this debate again reveals these obsessions and these contradictions of Slovenian democracy. We have been living with this for 20 years, and we are likely to live on. If it's what it's been like before, it's okay. However, if this balance, which is also dialectical – after all, you know, these two camps, which are constantly confronting each other, are constantly being dialectically compared in matters just like those of today's resolution of the President of the National Assembly – they continue in the future, no harm. It's Slovenia, we're plural. Two Slovenias exist, and when it is necessary to step together, they have proved that they are also coming together. However, if this balance is destroyed by the predominance of other rumours that have nothing to do with parliamentary democracy and are street rumours and the tendency to devalue this institution, then we must be concerned. And of course we don't want that future. Let me therefore reiterate that I accept these debates only as a political ring, as a ground for re-examination of our differences. And if that's it, okay. We're gonna get to know each other again, look into each other's eyes, hope we're still going to say good-bye and even have some coffee together. But let us be responsible, accountable to this country, responsible to citizens and, above all, to Parliament. Our reputation is at a very low level, not because of the President of the National Assembly, not because of the Government, but because of all of us Members. Let's be aware of that. And if we are here from this temple of democracy trying to devalue or even destroy other institutions or supervisory institutions of democracy, from the Court of Auditors, to the Constitutional Court, to other courts, to judges, to the President of the Republic, then what will we have left? We're going to have a burnout. Are you looking forward to this, you who have the ambition to engage these governments in the next elections? Do you really want to take over a country or a country’s burning ground? I can't believe it. I can't believe that you were in the government and that you were at the time with all the criticisms I had towards that government, but you acted in a state-of-the-art, responsible, European way even – with some exceptions. One of these was that incredible debate in the National Assembly, and at the time I was shocked. For a few hours, I think it lasted three hours when the President of the Government here hit the media, according to the press, and tried to make his announcement from the time immediately after the independence that the journalists had said what they said, and that it was the swan song of Slovenian journalists. This then tried to act, it didn't happen because the new government had arrived in the meantime, and the repression of free journalism was no longer possible, and I hope it never will. But if I resent the previous president of the National Assembly, the fact that he allowed such a debate when the executive power here, in the legislative power, in the temple of the legislature, struck the press. This was so rude, unworthy of Parliament, but no one at the time demanded Mr Tsukati's discharge, and so it is. That's right. Today you come for every fly, demanding the discharge of ministers, the President of the Republic, the President of Parliament. Let's ask for the collective resolution of Members, let's go home, to the early elections, that's what you want. Here, this is the last chance you have left. Maybe you'll even want some applause for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Tanko made a statement. Replica – yes, Mr Grims, you have a replica first. Mr. Tanko, your time is in the debate. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Here was a few big lies by the representative of Zares. In the previous term, I do not know why we would have dismissed the President of the National Assembly, but we could have discussed this if the opposition then assessed that he had done something inappropriate. If he had allowed the debate on the media and the President of the government was talking about the media, we could have requested the intervention of the Prime Minister, but you didn't. You didn't! Well, that's right. You're not being tolerant. The second thing you see is that the patterns are bound to the past. The time when some border guards were on Kolpa was the second against Slovenia. But the tats are now bringing some symbols back to life, to democracy, to totalitarian symbols. So now who is the one tied up by the memories of the past, and not by the most elegant? Even in the period you were talking about when some peak of democracy occurred before the liberation, even then people were imprisoned for verbal delinquency. Not that it should not be discussed, they were closed, and it was obviously you who agreed. And it is difficult for you to teach us morality or debate, quality, ethics. Before that, your colleague, your deputy, spoke about fascism and so on, about those we suggest. You proposed an ethical code to suggest, I hear now in the National Assembly – you, when your Member threatens a fellow Member to throw it out the window. What about this? And when this came to light that it was a meeting of the National Assembly or of the National Assembly’s working body, the president of the National Assembly quietly declared the meeting nonexistent, invalid, cancelled, and said that the event had not taken place. Such miracles can only occur if Paul’s holiness says so. Speaking of these things, there's a lot to add. And there's one more thing. In the previous term, we have also witnessed improper conduct, but the Vice-President of the National Assembly, when he publicly attacked the National Assembly, there in the lobby, his president, how undemocratic he allowed no debates and so on, and at the same time, he left the meeting of the National Assembly without predicting anything. Take a look at this. You obviously have a little shorter historical memory and you see only the beautiful things from that past, but they were also such stories, and they're probably not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Grimes also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Your Honor! If we didn't understand each other, my whole debate was about rejecting the most disgusting and most frequently sold flossules in the last period – they're all the same. That's not true, far from it! Looking at economic performance, we had the highest in the previous mandate, even after the middle of 2007, when the economic crisis, the financial crisis, had actually erupted, and Europe had already given hundreds of billions of euros for it, and we still had an average economic growth. Now, however, we have an average economic downturn and stagnation in the last period, with the most developed European countries already making progress by four and five percent. Why is this "all are the same" flossule so disgusting? Look at why there's a low reputation for Parliament. Today, we are told about civilization, about political ethics and political culture, precisely those who are 20 years ago in the wake of independence, which we celebrate these days, that Slovenian independence is the end of all civilizations and that they will therefore prefer to look at the sea. And then we wonder if this House doesn't have a reputation. And today, people are not shared as was said by the distinguished adverb, but are divided into that minority who, in running away and diverting attention from their own economic failure on stamps and coins, publishes the symbol 20 years ago of the defeated JLA and glorificier, and all those others who warn that this is non-European and that this is also a developmental failure because of this ideological planning we are becoming in the eyes of potential investors, those who want to work economically with us, some strange extremity that is worth avoiding far away.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my presentation and then in the debates, I called on the President of the National Assembly to argue on the basis of which the provisions of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure or any other act of extraordinary sitting have not been convened by the rules, and not the ones which we tabled on 13 May, within an appropriate time limit, and not the ones which we have tabled on 31 May, to which no comments have been made, nor the Legislative and Legal Service, nor the President of the National Assembly, and this meeting should be convened by 15 June at the latest, but only now, on 22 June, we are considering this proposal for a discharge. I think the president of the National Assembly should answer, and that's reasoned, not at all. I should have responded in particular by referring to both acts that I quoted. Where does he have the basis for not doing this? If we requested an extraordinary meeting on 31 May to address the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, the Constitution requires that this be called for. It is not now up to the President to decide whether it will be a regular or an extraordinary meeting, but it must convene an extraordinary meeting, and it must be convened after the Rules of Procedure in 15 days, that is until 15 June. And it is not called in the way we have proposed, and not in the time prescribed in the Rules of Procedure. And here I think the President of the National Assembly is obliged to quote on which grounds he did not do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	I'm a kind gentleman, and I'd be happy to answer any questions that people ask me right now. On this very, very same basis, I wanted to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on these four points that you have given, after they have been completed. In accordance with the 15-day deadline, I would have called her if she hadn't been removed. That's the first thing. On the basis of the relevant Article of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But you withdrew your request because it obviously didn't fit you anymore. When requesting an extraordinary meeting to be convened for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly for reasons of convening the meeting, you did not state one single reason. You did not give one single reason, but 27 signatures of the SDS Group of Members and 4 signatures of SNS Members of Parliament. So these 27 reasons on your part and these 4 reasons on this side simply don't count. It is necessary to clarify and justify why you want an extraordinary meeting. Correctly, I warned you the day before to deliver your reasons. You haven't been to college and of course you haven't delivered any reasons, if I may say so, so of course I have placed the matter, as the Rules of Procedure provides, at the first regular meeting of the National Assembly and we are here today. Therefore, Mr Head of the Group, look at the Rules of Procedure, follow it – it applies to both and not just one. And the reference to the Rules of Procedure will bring you nothing here, because the Rules of Procedure are fully and consistently respected. And the points that could be considered would have been considered if they had not requested a withdrawal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much. There are new inconsistencies in each response from the President of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly now said that the extraordinary meeting that we had tabled on 13 May would have called with all four items of the agenda if the items had not been withdrawn. Earlier, however, he exasperatedly explained that one point could not be put up at all; the other was not in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and so on. I think the president of the National Assembly really needs to know what he's saying. On 13 May, we submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting with all the necessary explanations for this. Although you felt that something needed to be fixed, we fixed it in time. On 28 May, the deadline for the call expired and this did not happen. We did not withdraw the request for a meeting in the meantime, but it was filed on 13 May, still. And within the business deadline, we've recovered everything we needed. And the President of the National Assembly obviously decided, for political reasons, because that pre-referendum period for the coalition was extremely sensitive, that he would not convene this meeting when he should have called it in the rules of procedure and the constitution, but some week or 14 days later. This is the basic reason why we are dealing with the fact that that meeting was not convened and why we then re-applyed for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. That's the reason, President. And this entanglement by the fact that something was, that something was gone and that something would be different and so on, is incorrect. And you can't say a different reason every three minutes, with different requirements and different arguments. If all four points of 25 May were expedient for inclusion in the meeting of the National Assembly, as you have now said, then the meeting should be convened by 28 May. You didn't do it, you didn't do it! And that's why we then requested a resolution with a new extraordinary session, and we added all the same materials as for that previous extraordinary session and nothing was disputed anymore. Nothing! This is the manipulation that this coalition enjoys in this National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly. There are no rules here, there is no order here, there is no respect for the rules of procedure. And in this way, the state cannot function seriously, so the rule of law cannot function. These are the reasons why everything that happens in all these stories that we should talk about in this National Assembly is not allowed because it is prohibited because the meetings do not wish to be convened because there are a thousand reasons why they should not be included in the agenda of the National Assembly. At the same time, the coalition includes the meetings of the working bodies of the point, the materials that came that day to the National Assembly, such as the case of Adrie Airways — no concerns, no reservations. And now let the President of the National Assembly tell me whether the coalition and opposition Members are equal in these proceedings, or whether one rule applies to the other rules. Apparently, because someone is referring to a legal opinion with us, they use it once and argue it as a reason to reject it, because it is not supposed to be in line with the legal opinion, for another case it does not get a legal opinion, it has not received it, it has not submitted it, but it simply does so with its left hand, such as the case of Adrie Airways, if I give you further warning. It was a decision made by three working bodies that it would only be good for Adria Airways to give about €80 million or more. There was no problem, President, there was a night meeting, three committees. No problem, no reservations, no intervention by the Legislative and Legal Service, no intervention by the President of the National Assembly. And now you're telling me you're acting in a coalition by the rules. What kind? From case to case, from the proposer to the proposer. Coalitions can afford anything, do whatever they want, and get a hall whenever they want, have meetings between the National Assembly meetings, and the opposition can't call in investigative committees not in the morning, not in the afternoon, not in the evening, because everything is busy and blocked. It is you who are obliged to respect the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and ensure equality in this National Assembly. You can't ask the weaker party in the process, which is the opposition, to take care of these matters. It's the coalition. But apparently this coalition has so many stains, so many dumplings, so many affairs and stories that everything has to be abused. And one more thing. Mr Plevelj came to my office a day earlier, announced himself and suggested that some things should be corrected before I received an opinion from the Legal and Legal Service or your letter. Listen, before I got your letter, and he told me that by asking him if you'd listen, because you're suggesting that I withdraw the point. He said yes. I told him that we would not do that, and I also told him why — because a new hand would start to run. And then Mr. Plewell left nicely. It is said that in the absence of such meetings within the prescribed time limit, a complete team of the National Assembly, the one who must ensure that the services operate and work for all equally. Also the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service – forgive me, the fact that the banking system is a unclear term exceeds all limits and is enshrined in the law. I'm sorry, we've passed three laws under your terms now, and all of them have that term in them, and there was nothing vague about the Law and Law Service, and neither did the President of the National Assembly. There was nothing vague about it. And if you imagine that you are providing conditions for everyone to deal with matters under the same conditions, under the same regime, you are seriously mistaken. You're wrong. And if you have any notions in some laws that are unclear, respected President of the National Assembly, what you have written to me, I suggest you immediately submit a new Law on Banking and correct the concept of the banking system and write something clearer. That's what you wrote to me. Read what you wrote. The fact that in these cases, when we want to address some of the agenda items at the meeting of the National Assembly, we draw arguments from the five veins or from below, is quite clear – at all costs to prevent debates in the National Assembly on topics that do not lie with the coalition. By the way, we could also propose a debate on how much of the Contingencies are involved in the bankruptcy of the SCT, how much damage will the Slovenian banking system suffer in this case when the SCT went bankrupt. They're talking about a few hundred million. A few hundred million. The coalition, which is so concerned about the economic situation in this country, could probably propose a debate in the National Assembly but not. Nor do you allow debates on other irregularities when money is poured into foreign accounts. You said that money is a shy bird, but this shy bird flies across all the islands, from Cyprus, the Andaman Islands, the Channel Islands, the Cayman Islands and so on, and on some continent where it lands, in some offshore zone. But you're preventing a debate about it. You're at Ultra's, you're at the banks, you're at silent companies, and so on. You prevent everything and then you spill the ashes here, when the opposition proposes a debate on non-economic topics. These are the basic issues of the economy! A billion euros, if it is necessary to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank in one way or another, is not a cough, that is 15% of the state budget. But this banking system is not allowed to be talked about. The fact that three state-owned companies have recapitalised the New Credit Bank Maribor in order to maintain a 51% share, and we have heard this whimpering after the coalition and after the government, among ministers, there are no coughs. It's not a story produced by the opposition, it's a coalition. To tell us that we are suspending, say, the Court of Auditors – why are you referring this to the opposition and to the SDS? You ignored the Court of Auditors' decision and request, both in the case of Križanič and in the case of Dars. The coalition did it. We in the opposition had absolutely nothing to do with this. The President of the Government once decided otherwise. In the case of a few garbage cans, the coalition minister flew away, and by the way, after a year and so much, nothing moved in this area. In the case of Križanič and these matters related to that audit of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Government has protected everything. And no one in the coalition, not the President of the National Assembly, not the others, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, nor the members of the coalition said anything except that you supported Križanič. The same is true in the case of Darsa, a highway company. No one's competent, no one wants to be competent. The president of the government says it's gonna be an agency, the agency writes some letters there, but nothing happens. And this is the biggest investor in the country, and I think around 500 to 700 million euros a year is spending this system. 500 to 700 million euros! And this must not be discussed in the National Assembly. Even when these people do not come to the hearing of reports, audits and so on, nothing happens. The President of the National Assembly saw nothing, nor did Mr Kumer see anything blocking that anyone was not seated. They don't even come to see, but they get a higher salary than Members of Parliament. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Kumer, you know, you're a coalition, you're deciding, you're protecting, you're the chief protector, one of the main protectors of these manipulations on Dars, obviously. In short, I would like to tell you, Mr President, that you do not have the same vats, that you do not take into account the same legal grounds, that you boycott, ignore and make fun of things on one side. We do not have to go anywhere, but at least to the President of the National Assembly, to agree on whether or not we can file a case. Nobody has to walk. However, in the event that the coalition does not agree with the proposals of the conclusions, they may be amended in the course of the procedure. You do not need any abuse of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. If the matter were in the process, you could request a legislative and legal opinion. But even when you had legislative and legal opinions about, say, the Penal Code, both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government's Law Services, and they were both negative, you forced treatment at the National Assembly. You're not consistent here either. The government has priority even if the matter is unconstitutional. All the branches of the judiciary have been identified as negative to the case, you have had them on the table, and this procedure has had to be carried out as someone has chosen. And now to tell us that we don't know something is, to put it mildly, inappropriate, because you're taking advantage of the same thing for cases that I can still list for you. If you were so consistent in government proposals with these opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service before the proceedings that you have with us, then 70% of the laws would not be capable of any consideration, since the amendments are more than articles and corrections than articles. Well, you didn't. Why don't you put the key things in your opinion to the Legislative and Legal Service before the Government sends it here, and return them if the matter is not right? Why? You have the same right. You are the president of the National Assembly for the government and the opposition, for all of us. Is it only for you to guard and block what the opposition is supposed to suggest for consideration? And, Mr President, it is obvious that this mandate is also binding in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the one who holds the stand for all the bad decisions of the Government, the National Assembly is the one where the coalition has the majority, and here does not allow bad solutions and bad suggestions to be taken, and the National Assembly is the one who must not discuss any matter, even if it is under the authority of the Government, even if it is under the jurisdiction of the State. And the government is responsible for everything in this jurisdiction, for all offices, for all institutions, for all those where it provides funding and so on. And this choice, which the Government is responsible for, cannot be decided by the President of the National Assembly, because this is provided for in Article 4 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be enough to take these things into account, the constitution, the rules of procedure, the government law, and everything is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	I'm gonna have to be very careful not to go to a level that I didn't go to in my life and I don't think today. Your statement at the end was a true statement, and it also shed a beautiful light on everything you said before. This is a political statement by a political party in the opposition sitting in Parliament and saying that this mandate is binding. This is a political statement, completely logical, and this policy is not about the rules of procedure, not about the item being placed on the agenda, but only about it and above all about it. Above all, what also appears through all this work of yours is simple: since the ratification of the agreement on Croatia's entry into then we have seen only one logic in this work of yours, and I think I have allowed it as much as the Rules of Procedure allow, and perhaps even more. In this sense, many colleagues speak to me here, not only from the coalition, but also from the opposition, that kindness is an orphan, but logic and strategy was alone, and it is in the football or basketball language pressing throughout the playground, rough play, blows, especially when the judge is looking away, and complaining that you are always at fault. For you are born in unrighteousness, living in injustice, being brought up in injustice, because some injustices happen to you all the time. What's not your will is guilt, and it's excruciating. Give at least a little distance to yourself, to your own behavior! Let's set up some normal, healthy and modern human communication and behavior, not that you're always convinced that someone's chasing you and that you're constantly being hit by someone and so on. While you are unfettered from this sense of injustice, which you say is pleasing to you, you are exerting pressure, legitimate and illegal, on all things possible. You're saying I was inconsistent. Kaki! When I say something and I say it over and over, I suppose what I said before holds true. The two points after the corrected material on 25 May were capable of being treated and were therefore included in a possible reference to an extraordinary meeting. The deadline for this is 15 days, because at this time all procedures must be initiated in order for this matter to happen. There are no inconsistencies with me in this respect. More than that, you're saying you didn't make a withdrawal request. "Retirement of the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly." I read: "On behalf of the 27 Members and Members, I withdraw the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we tabled on 13 May 2011 and corrected accordingly on 25 May 2011. On 31 May 2011, this was sent, i.e. a few days before the deadline for the meeting was reached. That's why I have to reject your argument, and I don't even want to talk about it anymore. As for the points that are up, you're always talking about Dars and this last point, point four. I don't know how to say it – as Ronald Reagan once said: "Read my lips," Mr. Tanko. Read my lips or what I say, literally! The point corresponds, but the identical point is already in progress. Compare with the law. The law is in the process, the identical law or the law which deals with the same content is introduced, and if it is not completed, the other cannot begin. That's why it's not up there. The debate on Dars, on all these matters in the way it is, is absolutely legitimate, but, for God's sake, in these matters the Rules of Procedure apply analogously to those acts as in the case of laws. That's what they told you, and that's probably -- I don't know, because I didn't even know that Mr. Plevelje went to you -- wanted to tell you, too, Plevelje, I don't know. I'll tell you again, I'll always do it. That I am unjust and I prefer you – you do not know that I get comments from the other side of the coalition on several occasions, and I understand that as normal. If neither side is completely satisfied with me, that means I've probably run things well. If one side were very satisfied and the other really unhappy, we could really talk about bias. About the Government – we have also rejected the laws, especially when they did not meet the formal conditions for initiating the treatment procedure, they were not justified, there was no such thing as that, but the law is different. It is always assumed that they regulate things that are from the area to which they relate. None of your observations can really be accepted, and none of your observations stand, except what you have said is that your task in this mandate is to abolish the function of the National Assembly, to bring it to a stage when everyone in this country thinks that this institution is the least important, that elections mean nothing and that a third chapter can begin, I don't know, another republic in this history. I'm not doing this. I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Kumer also made contact with the replica. He doesn't want to. Mr Tanko, I would like to ask you to proceed with the discussion on the list of applicants and then sign in again. [[advertising from the hall]] Fine, but I ask that we, however, allow the debate of Members forward. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, apparently none of our findings stand. Everything we suggest, everything we say, is irrelevant. This is how the president of the National Assembly acts, and that is how everyone who assists him acts. Everything is irrelevant, everything is irrelevant, everything is irregular, everything is nothing. On 13 May, we submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting. On 25 May, you made a request for a supplement, and on 25 May, we made a supplement. The meeting of the National Assembly should be convened at the latest on 28 May. You didn't put the matter on the college's agenda until June 3rd. We don't need meetings like this because that's how he manipulates dates. We haven't withdrawn the demands, we've completed it. If the President of the National Assembly interprets this in his own way, this does not lead anywhere because the case has been properly carried out in accordance with current practice. In accordance with current practice. It is difficult to accept here the arguments proposed by the President of the National Assembly. He voluntarily withdrew our point from the process without any announcement being made anywhere. He decided that the point had been withdrawn and was not in the completion phase. If he'd removed the point, then I'd have written that the point was removed from the agenda, but it's not. It was a proposed supplement. That's what they say was going on. Apparently, that political part has prevailed in this work, and it is not appropriate within the coalition, with the full agreement of the coalition, to deal with these matters with these four points at the time it should have happened, because it should have been due to the pre-referendum period for the abuse of the Institute of the National Assembly. This is the abuse of the Institute of the National Assembly when you explain things in your own way and do not take into account the deadlines or other matters involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Grill has the floor to prepare for Mr Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much. It is misleading and incorrect to tell the proposers that this meeting has been convened unjustifiably or that it is intended exclusively for some populism, deception. To see that we wanted to convene this meeting before the referendum in order to carry out the referendum campaign, even if it is not true, is also incredible and people cannot trust you. Because for the fact that the package of these laws at the referendum was rejected with such a result, you have done the most yourself, with your bad work, with your dissension, especially in the coalition, and we as the opposition party did not have to do much. However, this meeting was convened solely because of the will to lead the National Assembly by Dr. Gantar, to disobey the Constitution, to disregard the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And here were those key reasons, which, of course, are also justified. For speaking of Dr. Gantar as president of the National Assembly has always acted in accordance with the acts we have adopted ourselves is not true. It is not true what Dr Gantar points out in his debate that his work has also been dissatisfied with coalition Members, that they have repeatedly made critical statements against him, sometimes incorrect or unjustifiable. We will see if the coalition Members are dissatisfied with his work when we vote by secret ballot today. If they hold that they were dissatisfied, they will support the proposal to get rid of it. But we all know that's not true. It was more than obvious that the conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly was taking a different approach to the discussions of opposition Members in relation to coalitions. We've always been the subject of interruptions, reaching into words, taking words and so on. On the side of the coalition Members, if we have explicitly pointed out an irregularity, it is only sometimes after, if not another, that he has tried at least a little with a certain sentence, but there were no other sanctions, which of course we would expect. To talk about the fact that in our party, we are always the ones who are alerting us to some of the injustices that are happening to us and that we are already obsessed with them — we are alerting us to irregularities, not injustices. For irregularities. The President of the National Assembly is of his own unappreciative function, because he belongs to a political party, and at the same time runs an institution that represents the highest peak of the legislative branch of government. And being President of the National Assembly means that when sitting at the seat of the President of the National Assembly, he must act exclusively objectively, impartially, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Even in its deliberations at the seat of the President of the National Assembly, bias or inconsistencies must not be detected, and this has happened many times. And if he's not capable of doing it, whoever he is, crossing some client ideologies or party arrangements, he can't do it right. And this has certainly been the case with Mr. Gantar several times. Its arbitrariness as to whether the topics for discussion in the National Assembly are appropriate or inappropriate – must not be allowed to do so. Its competence is to determine, even by means of, say, the Legislative and Legal Service and other services, whether or not it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. It is, not that the Legal Service, which is part of his team, with some hair-attracted arguments, tries to convince here that the themes that we are dealing with here are not appropriate. One of the proverbs says that all roads lead to Rome, while at the same time we can say that all roads or all social events lead to the National Assembly. The debate in the National Assembly can always be in the interest of each branch of government, so that it can be executed. And discussing any subject in the National Assembly does not mean that we are interfering with any other branch of authority. It is true, however, that, through discussion, through caution, we can contribute to the awareness of our responsibilities and of the bad work of both the Government, the executive branch of power and the courts. And all of these institutions, however, are placed in the National Assembly, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which we name and resolve, to the judges. It's true we can't get rid of them, but we call them here. That is why the debate in the National Assembly has always been welcome and has mirrored all social developments in the country. It is therefore right that discussions on all topics that point to irregularities be held here. And to note that these topics were not meaningful, appropriate, not in accordance with either the jurisdiction or the legal order applicable to us. Therefore, protecting ourselves now in our debates, trying to make sure that we were inconsistent with this request, that there was a lack of explanation or a flawed text, an incorrect text, was not convincing. Mainly, once again, today, after the end of this debate, we will be voting mainly by the virtual opposition, this is DeSUS, and now indeed and others, we will see whether your conduct is correct and credible. We'll see. Let's be surprised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Petek has the floor to prepare Mr Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. My opinion, too, is that it is a mistake not to include a relative social theme in the meetings of the National Assembly, and I do not know why we should be afraid of it. Surely there would be less tension in the country and policy if they were able to answer the relative questions raised in society, on the one hand, through legislation, on the other hand through a debate in Parliament. It is true that any extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly would expose the banality of the ruling coalition, the banality of its rule, and politics. On the other hand, it is true that there is sometimes too much talk, thought, speech without words, and content in this national assembly. Speaking without words and without content is, of course, chatter. On the other hand, it is better to allow some chatter in this national assembly than to limit any debate as has been the case in recent times. The prohibition of debates and the prohibition of debates in the National Assembly is only a step towards dictatorship. And if we opened up a debate, what subject we proposed in our parliamentary group, we could also solve a lot of things. Perhaps we could solve all the hardships of the Prime Minister of the Government who suffers in this own incompetence and who suffers from the bargaining of his coalition parties. Opening up various relevant social issues would help everyone. The ruling elite would not appear to be such an impersonal political material that is blind and deaf to all comments and insensitive to what is happening in this country. It's a shame the president of the National Assembly is no longer with us. Mr. Gantar as an old rocker knows that the old punk band Bulldogi met again. They released a new CD, and through punk, the Bulldogs in the past tried to point out the company's deviations. 25 years, 20 years after the Bulldogs, we have a bulmastife in Slovenia. Bulmastifs are such a rejection that was flogged by the Slovenian punk 20, 30 years ago. These bolmastifi point to the deviation in Slovenian society, pointing to immorality, of course also to clientism, corruption, pointing to the great privileged, to non-compliance with laws, to the erosion of the rule of law. This case, the example of the Bulmastif affair, shows that we are on the verge of a moral slide in Slovenia, that we are on the verge of a general social and political crisis. See, yesterday there was a post office killing of only 300 euros, and the Prime Minister of the Government says it is best that there is no political and social crisis in Slovenia. Interesting! Something about the media was also said here. During the time of the government of Borut Pahor, Slovenia slipped on all scales measuring press freedom on all international scales, relevant scales. On the other hand, Prime Minister Borut Pahor holds meetings with Slovenian journalists, so-called off the record of the meetings, and apparently for those meetings that we do not know about, which are not recorded, orders what journalists should write, what the media should write. Our request was also to address the case of the NPU, what was happening in the background. More or less it is known what kind of business the NPU is dealing with. The debate is limited. The NPU case is discussed in public for some time, in Parliament very little, and last time, when national television was broadcast in Tednik, which talked about the NPU case, about the safety or danger of this building, there was also a call by the Minister of the Interior to the RTV Slovenia Office. And now we're wondering who's influencing the media, whether the previous government has done it or whether today's ruling coalition is doing it. It is difficult to come to a debate, to a voice in this Chamber, to point out that in Slovenia the Slovenian state rents about 500 different premises for which we pay taxpayers about 30 million euros per year, abroad an additional 14 million euros. It is difficult to say in this country that the government has concluded 14 million different contracts, that the Ministry of Health pays 4 million for various contracts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Mr. Friday, I would remind you of the subject we're discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Of course it's a topic. We could not discuss this at the requested meeting [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	Please, calm down. Carry on, Mr. Friday. I warned you, and please, if there's peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much. This is typical — when opposition Members want to say something, either stop us or do not allow the meeting. The only thing that works for this coalition is an excuse for its own failure. You're quite the master at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	The next one would be Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor to prepare Mr Mirko Brulc. Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You know me that I am not the one who would refer to procedural proposals, however, even though you warned during Mr Petk's speech. I appreciate all the gentlemen in the hall, but I think that when it goes too far, some things need to be stopped, even for the sake of good relations in Slovenia. Mr. Friday, as a successful journalist, I appreciated you as a gentleman, but when you start implicating yesterday's murder in today's debate, I think it's exceeded all the limits of good taste. I would ask that at least the hardest things in life are not involved in political speeches. I would like to ask the Vice-President and anyone who presides over this Chamber to take care of these matters, because today some of them are experiencing the most difficult moments because of such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask for peace in the hall. I'd like to ask for peace in the hall. I'd like to tell you that I reminded Mr. Friday. I ask that this note be applied also to further speakers in this national assembly today. Next is Mr Branko Marinič, to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, we are in a paradoxical situation in this Slovenian Parliament even today when we are discussing a proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. If we looked at the composition of the parliamentary parties, we would stop at a political option from which the President of the National Assembly himself still belongs. It may also be possible to avoid today's debate on this proposal by taking due account of champion Zares, if the President of the National Assembly correctly drew some conclusions and, with the announcement by Zares, who is leaving the coalition, resigned himself, thus allowing Members and Members to discuss some other subject today. However, it is matters in which Parliament must follow the rules of procedure and of course the Constitution, regardless of the political options from which the President of the National Assembly comes. Why do the opposition, or the SDS and SNS, propose to dismiss the President of the National Assembly? Simply because of this, and this must be repeated because he intervened on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to discuss these things – regardless of when, at any time, the opposition has the right to propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a debate on current social and economic developments in the Republic of Slovenia. That's what we did. The President of the National Assembly stood up at a time when May 25th – from May 13th to May 25th is quite a long time, but apparently he was convinced that the opposition should be in a bad time I do not know when it would be the right time, whether it was after the referendum or before the referendum, because now we are back before the referendum, it is said, 32 or 33,000 signatures gathered by people who disagree with the adoption of the family code, and we are back at the time of the referendum. [[...]] Therefore, this debate could also be withdrawn for a reason, as the President of Parliament has stated, when he said that the proposer should discuss the banking system, the rental of premises of the National Investigation Office, the Bulmastifs and more. He does not have a President of Parliament, who is the first authority of Members and Members of the National Assembly, the right to interpret, decide and deny the opposition the opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and this possibility is also given by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is unacceptable that on such important content as we have proposed, the President of Parliament simply takes the practice into his own hands and then tries to seduce things by proposing the next step. Yes, but what else is left for the opposition, the next instrument if the President of the National Assembly fails to comply with the regulations he should have made?Oh, my God! Then the opposition takes advantage of others, the following options it has. And what is that? A proposal for his resolution! Today, to speak and reason that it is also possible that the President of Parliament did not convene an extraordinary meeting because the opposition would afford valuable time for public accounting and add oil to the fire to the horror of the referendum, which had already been condemned in advance, makes no sense. It would make sense for the President, as requested by the opposition, to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where all of what we are talking about today would have been said when our request was made. I am convinced that today, when we talk about a paradoxical situation in the Slovenian Parliament, some political parties are trying to blur this lever of parliamentary democracy through the levers of the opposition and the coalition. If we look at this hall, we can draw the line and say that 70% of this space is in the opposition and 30% remain in the coalition. I do not know if this is a normal situation in which both parliament and government can function normally. But let me make one more point. We cannot go beyond how something is possible and how something that is substantially more justified is impossible. If we compare the decision of the President of the National Assembly not to convene an extraordinary meeting at the request of the opposition, which has fulfilled all the rules of procedure and also the constitutional category. When the emergency session was convened by three committees, it happened within 12 hours or not! And this about the topic that required consideration and where the Government or those who are hiding behind the Government and for the Government demanded that the three parliamentary committees decide at the moment on something that they are not even competent for! And it was, or it was, almost a hundred million euros in money to cover Adria Airways' non-economic behaviour. That's unacceptable! And you know, here you have to have the same levers, for all the same things, not for one topic like this, but for the other. If it's the opposition, then it's not, but if it's someone else, then it is. That's not right!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Vito Rožej. He's not here. Janko Weber – no. Mag. Sarah Wheeler — no. Renata Brunskole, first one on the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Your Honor! In fact, it is very difficult to listen to the moral teachings of some who should be very, very quiet because of their actions. This is not about excluding someone from this House, but if I'm lying and stealing and I don't know what else I'm doing, then we can't document such an act to anyone else. Dr. Pavel Gantar, president of the National Assembly, does not actually use lawyers in this strange interpretation. He himself presented very precisely his leadership of the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and I think this work is running as well. This meeting is not a gift to the country at the age of 20, but it is a disgrace to the proponents, without further ado. Look, it's obvious that he's taking the word of an enemy MP – thank God! That he did not convene a meeting before the referendum, allowing free Huja propaganda – the same. Because it does not allow debates which do not actually have a real connection with the work of the National Assembly. These are very, very clear indications, and they limit to primitiveity, which does not lead to anything, except that we are wasting our time having a seven-hour debate today. We also need to contact the Members of the post, not to protect Dr Ganttar, but to ensure that the public does not get just one piece of information when it happens to waste time watching TV broadcasts in this beautiful weather. The desire, of course, is to come to an emergency situation in this country, and here everything that is possible is used, which is in accordance with the rules, and what is not part of a normal society. I've been sore since I heard about the Bulmastiffs. Today Jankovic and someone else have been mentioned too few times, but this is not a debate that belongs to the National Assembly, and today we have received warnings, including that we do not use any tragic events to interrupt here. Of course, this is also the case, in this interpretation or attempt to dismiss the President in order to fully evaluate the good work of this national assembly. I think we are not doing badly, although we have different views, but all that this national assembly has done in this period, what work, how important laws it has adopted, what quality professional debates have also been on committees and where, does not mean that this national assembly sucks and that it needs to be literally entertained. However, it is pressure to devalue the institution, as it has already seen, and it will probably be again Friday, the President of the State, many other institutions and so on. Of course, this is about eccentric politics, and my warning is that: SDS, make sure your photocopying machine doesn't burn. This material was photocopied and pure, completely unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. Much has already been said today, much in this direction too, and I personally agree that certainly today is not the time and it is somehow wrong to speak in such a way that it still looks and belongs to the National Assembly, that is, the temple of democracy. In this way, and with this kind of debate, those colleagues and colleagues, the debaters and the debaters who are discussing in this direction do not, in any way, cast their most likely positive lights, because when it comes to expressing an opinion about someone who, like us here, is a representative of the people in the National Assembly, then this bad light falls also on the one who is discussing it. Therefore, I believe that the situation in which we are living, both the economic and financial crisis and the situation facing not only Slovenia, but the whole European Union, is such that it is still at the very least appropriate for us to decide in any way to dismiss the President of the National Assembly. Why? Surely today is not the time for people to sow any additional seed or to promote any greater uncertainty, restlessness, or bad feelings. It is enough that the economic situation throughout Europe has led to a large number of unemployed people in the Republic of Slovenia as well, and all those people who probably have at this moment other than those who have already retired, or possibly students, students, schoolchildren, the opportunity or even time to listen to us at a given time – it is certainly not appropriate that things go this way. At the very least, it would be appropriate — perhaps anyone wants or is wrong, perhaps anyone wants to encourage even greater uncertainty among the people and perhaps bring, even as far as the functioning of the National Assembly is concerned, things to the brink of possibility. And that is why I am convinced that there is no one here who would allow this to happen to anyone who would vote in this direction today to get rid of the President of the National Assembly. Perhaps some of you will, those of you who have probably suggested this, and for others I am sure that we have already made up our minds and we have our decision not to support this in any way. If, at a given time, the decisions of some political parties are different in relation to the functioning of the Government, it would not be right to transfer all of them to the functioning of the National Assembly. I believe that it is right here that we must be the ones who keep things up, the ones we hold together, and that we do not cause unrest or any chaotic situation, because there is no such situation. And it would not be right for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to sow fear among people in any way, uncertainty. But what would have changed if this moment, as some people have said on several occasions today, had really come true to my assessment - I agree with colleagues who have already talked about it before, and I would not have said it again - really went into some extreme debate, quite extreme, which in some way would have been an unfair discussion, what would they have done with it? No one else would have been able to change everything overnight if it were different now, even if it were a new election. I'm sure you don't. Either way, anyone assesses what the government is doing, the functioning of this National Assembly, including some of the debates and reflections it has been, and in some ways the judgment that even the President of the National Assembly would be responsible for certain matters, or sometimes when it comes to the debate on interpretation towards which one of the Government’s representatives does not do so. Things are not going in the right direction, and I believe that this debate is at some point beyond the limits. But let's just leave it. I will not support this proposal alone for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. My wish is, and I think that, despite the fact that some are otherwise discussing, the expectations of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that we are not going in any way on the path of countries that are facing significant problems today, as the Republic of Slovenia faces. With substantially larger ones. I see that some of you may not agree, but however, we have an opportunity to inform ourselves about this matter. Therefore, at a given moment, even early elections at this time – I doubt that next month, two months from now, any other government or other state council could fully resolve and resolve matters. But that's the question, what if, what if it was. Now we are here, holding together, working together, and not allowing any kind of disturbance here to cause such decisions to cause additional unrest among people, at least in the National Assembly. Regardless of who is in the coalition, who is not in the coalition, I am convinced that Members of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly are representatives of the people, and that we will not allow such intentions or desires, but in particular additional uncertainties among people. No one deserved it, none of the electorate and electorate, none of us. I don't think it's good for the House of Democracy, for the National Assembly, because in a way that is true, as a person receives letters – today I have received a letter that says: You can have high wages in the National Assembly, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, you have food, and I don't know what else. We know it's not like that. It's the only way people can imagine. People imagine that, but probably some of them from here, from the National Assembly, may also have some information to give, more uncertainly, that the show is such. I must say that at such a letter — I am sorry that the person who signed under the pensioner from Juzemberk has not yet written his name and surname because he would be happy to talk to this person — if he is from there. I said this in particular because it is a sign of how, or even Members and Members at a given time, probably also because of such proposals as this point today, we still have respect among people. I am sorry that I do not think we really deserve this, because I personally believe that I am trying to act properly and in the welfare of the people who have trusted me to be a member of the National Assembly. I certainly will not support the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Gantar. I am sure that the decision of the majority that this point will not be supported will continue to work for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular that it will continue to lead the National Assembly well, despite the unevenly simple times. And as someone has said, Mr President himself, we know what these kinds of pressures mean in sports courts, different kinds of games and so on, different ways of playing. However, some of the games in this National Assembly, forgive me for pronouncing the games, are working on a bit of incorrect games. This is not the same, so I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. You're giving up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Mr. Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, we've just heard a few things that went beyond the context of the agenda. Before you were in charge of the session, however, I took note of some of the things spoken by the speakers and they were completely out of context, so I will ask you to allow me to respond to them. Mrs. Brunskole, you just made an extremely nice speech. I believe that at this point you have won dozens of brides, ignorant and naive people, and I believe you will be seated again in the National Assembly. You say we stick together, do something for tomorrow, do something for better Slovenia. Yes, Mrs. Brunskol, we have filed 200 laws, your finger has stopped at the "no" point 200 times. How do you invite me and you invite us to such an attitude? How's that? In every democracy, the government is responsible for the state of the country and the opposition has a fundamental task of looking at the government. And then don't ask me to stick together. 200 times you've rejected us, 200 times, even in the laws that speak of your white landscape. Your Belokrans must also know that – that your Members have refused to do so. But the topic is the resolution of the President of the National Assembly, so let's be constructive. Such debates, as I hear here today, are actually going in some direction, which is said to hold us all responsible for the situation in this country. That's not true! The situation in this country is the responsibility of those who run the government. In 2008, we left you all the cashiers full, and today they're all empty. And then don't talk about us being responsible, we have nothing to do with it. But let's go to the president of the National Assembly. Mr President, I voted for you in a secret vote at that time, and I have already told you this in this national assembly. We all make mistakes; I made mistakes. I won't give my vote to you today. I won't support you. I think I'm one of those Members you've interrupted most of the time in this National Assembly. Most often interrupted in this national assembly. I'm not going to talk about any other consequences of my performances, let's say at some college outside of Bezigrad, but I'm going to tell you in person. In 2009, Mr President, you authorised Mr Potræ to apologise on behalf of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court and the Slovenian public for allegedly inappropriate statements made by Mr Gorenak, i.e. me. In fact, I have stated that the Constitutional Court, on the occasion of the Law on Lawyers, has appointed itself over the people and the National Assembly. Look, okay, Mr. President. Your coalition colleague Kresal then said that these were statements, unworthy MPs, let alone a doctor of science and so on, and invited me to resign. Mr Saiovic even gave a lecture and said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court were respected and, of course, should not be discussed. So you have established some criteria, some criteria that I think should apply to everyone if this comes from the President of the National Assembly. But look, you said a few days ago that the Constitutional Court overstepped its powers. You'll tell, won't you? In this way, the Constitution was not respected by law, for the congregations were established by the National Assembly with the law and not by the Constitutional Court. In short, you've made some criticism. I agree with this criticism, but you don't have the same criteria as me and yourself. When Mr Juri said that the Constitutional Court had made a coup under which I sign, I would sign his statement, I would expect you to apply the same criteria. Neither you nor Mr Saiovic have applied the same criteria to Mr Yuri's statements and to my statements. But what is the difference between me and another Member? The fact that I'm in the opposition and he's in the coalition can't be a criterion. But it doesn't even matter that much. One of the Members spoke, specifically Mr Franco Juri, that we wanted to have a pre-referendum show with that extraordinary meeting, which is the basis for today's meeting. I don't think the opposition needs any pre-referendum show. I am deeply convinced that if the SDS did not join that electoral campaign at all, the result would actually be very similar because people are judges, and those best judges. So we didn't need this show. Look, Mr. President, we have a show today, and that's true. But I don't mean here today, but I am thinking about the current situation in this country and what Mrs Brunskole has also called for us to step forward together and so on. See, the situation is now such that 33 Members still support the coalition. But it's officially on paper, and the reality isn't like that. That's not the reality. Just like they used to have a back-up in the military, in the police force, we have one today. Non-connected Members, at least two of them, DeSUS, but indeed the same, of course there is a coalition, only on paper it is not, and voting shows it. Look, this is a show. And then one day someone will say, let's say in three quarters of a year, when we get close to regular elections: yes, you see, we ran this country with a minority government. No way with a minority government! For the opposition in this House, it is clear who it is. But those who came out are no opposition, but they are a pure coalition. They just pretend on paper that they're not. See, that's a show. That's a show! If we keep looking at some things. Lies have been told again. In particular, Mr Saiovic again agreed on the falsification of some documents. I have to say again: no one has – I have to answer – forged. But it's true that they were in the wrong order, and that's true. It needs to be objective. And I'm going to have to tell anyone who's going to talk about this counterfeiting a hundred times. Mrs Župevc talked about the referendum, the country's blockade to block the country, prevent the country's leadership and so on. Mrs Župevc could learn to count to 6 and look at how many referendums the SDS has even proposed. That would be good, too. And then say other things. The economy is not a cause for dissatisfaction among people. That's a chronological statement. I will not express myself like Mr Tanko last time, but I am really surprised that someone can make such a statement. Dear Mrs Župevc, if the economy is not a cause for dissatisfaction among people, then I do not know what it is. Then I don't know what it is. 60 thousand people lost their jobs, and you think they're happy to have a left-wing government center or what? If that's what you think, then you're allowed to keep thinking that way. There's something else to conclude. Look, some of them attacked John Jansha. What can I tell you? On that name and surname, the species collide and you're like a partisan column or whatever, because it doesn't matter. No one mentioned John Janša in this request, no one. The presidents did not interrupt the coalition's speakers, but they did talk about yesterday's case of the withdrawal of the Miheljak lawsuit and so on. Well, that's not the theme of the agenda. But I have something to tell them. As a matter of fact, be happy to have him at all. I mean, Janez Jansha. Because it is a person in whom you are able to unify yourself so that it is quite a joy. In fact, you could be happier that he exists than we do on this side. See, that's where you're so unified, he's so unifying you -- actually, I could compare you to something else. As soon as you see that name, you are united in defense – I will not say what. But that's not right, and it's not right to talk at today's session because it's not a topic. The theme was the National Assembly and the President. Let me go back to the President of the National Assembly and finish with that. Mr President, the matter is relatively simple, at least as far as I am concerned. The same criteria and the same criteria. Personally, I have received so many negative criteria and criteria, so many underestimating interruptions that I have experienced for this speaker, that I do not think that any other Member has so many. And you know, that's what hurts. The President of the National Assembly must, regardless of his membership in the coalition – you will now be the opposition, but otherwise you are in the coalition, you can see that, and it is known – you are likely to have the same relationship with everyone. At least that's how I picture the role of President of the National Assembly. And it's not possible, like you just set me up from that pay phone once in 2009, that I have half an hour to finish a session. You're not competent for that. You can determine that the committee has to deal with it and then it's my business. You can't and you can't afford to do that, and doing that is unfortunately the reason for my decision, which will be today, otherwise secret in that cabin, but I can say it in public. In short, I won't support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Mrs. Brunskol, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I feel obliged to respond. I thank Dr. Gorenak for this obvious trust and appreciation of my work, to believe that I will once again sit in the National Assembly, if that is your thinking, but in the direction of misleading people here I really cannot agree because I am not deceiving anyone with my speech. In connection with the Government's responsibility, you have rejected us 200 times, even under the White Krajina Act, I must say that if I look back at the statistics related to certain rejections, even in the mandate of the past government, it was certainly so that a number of opposition issues were rejected because, as you said, the government was responsible for this. So I wouldn't go that way. However, as regards the White Land Act, it was presented by this Government and the Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development was adopted. This Government has adopted the Pocolpa programme for the period 2011-2016. I am alone as a co-proposer, along with some of your colleagues, a co-proposer of the White Krajina Act, which was adopted in the first reading by 35 votes to 34, but the fact is that it is a period of the new government mandate, i.e. for the period 2013-2016. And on this matter with my fellow Members of the Group of Social Democrats here, I would not give any assessment in this direction. Why did they decide not to support it? In particular, because it was a common coalition decision to support the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, because others coming from other parts of Slovenia are likely to remember that some laws, which have also been proposed for each area, have been rejected. I will support this law once again, but given that this is a period from 2013 to 2016, in some way also on the question of one of the journalists, whether it is possibly part of the demagogies here, I cannot say at any given time that it is not necessarily that, too. In fact, if something is planned for the period 2013-2016, it is also difficult to say, even if we write, and I am a co-proposer, 619 million and so on, what will be the case. However, the fact is that in the Pocolpe programme, EUR 300 million is already available for transport infrastructure and even every year for €4 million for calls and that one of the tenders is now out, and I hope that the effects of this invitation to tender on the economy will be visible as well this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Dr. Gorenak, we probably agree on one thing here today, and that is that you will not vote in my favour. I don't expect him, and I'm sure even if he's hidden, I won't get him. And I don't have a problem with that, so freely and conscientiously give your voice the way you want it. But what I want to say in particular is that I didn't say at all what you somehow brought down on me, if I said that the Constitutional Court stood up to the Constitution and the law. You have once declared that the Constitutional Court has stood up to the Constitution and the law, and you have been criticized for this. I never said that. I have here a record from Del of 14 June, the day following the promulgation of the Constitutional Court's decision. "The President of the National Assembly expressed satisfaction that the Constitutional Court has taken into account that electoral law is a constitutional right which must not be held for reasons of any circumstances." Then in Del they quote my words: "The Constitutional Court has also ruled on a case which has not even been asked. The initiative was to hold the elections and decided to set up a congregation. In the coming days and weeks, there will be a wide-ranging debate on the role played by the Constitutional Court. He's in control of the legislative function, but he's not the legislator himself. A court is established by law. There is sufficient time for the National Assembly to respond in an appropriate manner in this or future composition, to judge, to take into account and decide on the opinions of the professions. If the National Assembly does not engage in this, this decision will have far-reaching constitutional consequences for the democratic constitution of the country." That's what I said. In no way have I used the words that no Member should use, your words. The difference for anyone who knows a little bit about distinctions, words, will be clear and obvious. That's why I didn't get convictions like yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Mr Anton Kampuz has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! The dismissal of the President of the Slovenian Parliament is not the first time on the table, but it was some time ago, what year, because this is a permanent event of the opposition, I suppose it will be another year. But I am sorry that the President of Parliament is not aware of this resolution, or perhaps reluctantly wants to devalue this Slovenian Parliament, which is perfectly normal. I'm afraid there's a lot of incontrovertibles, unargued instigations. I listened very carefully to President Gantar when he gave his explanation, and it was clear from this explanation that no mistake had been made. I suppose that's how the applicants understood it, and they probably also understood that there is no argument at this point. So I personally will not support this resolution. Today, however, one of the very interesting thoughts has been expressed, and I admit that Dr Gorenak's colleague has rightly said that the opposition has tabled some more than 200 proposals, and this is indeed the case. I also have to admit that I did not keep the key on the plus, which means yes, but I had my opinion on 50% of these proposals, which is the following. That these proposals were incomplete, unthinkable, unfounded and did not give any serious professional opinion. If we pulled the common denominator, which means that if this government or this parliament were to adopt them, we would be discussing the Greek script in Slovenia today. Those were the suggestions, and I'm glad I wasn't wrong about the key.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Dr. Gorenak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Campus, let's be serious. Who's taking this country against the Greek script? The one who is in the government is you, and with these laws we wanted to help you with what your President, Mr Pahor, has asked, and we have offered this. And some of your Members have accepted this, a radical part of your party and your blackmailers, LDS and Really, but they have rejected it. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word, the next will be mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Mr President, actually, I didn't mean to come by, even though I've been reported, but because of some of today's views, which I find unacceptable, I have to take this opportunity. In fact, you had the opportunity, Mr President, to become an excellent president. Indeed, you were a minister, you were an opposition Member, and in fact this role of the President of the National Assembly could be understood and performed perfectly. I'm sorry I feel like you've wasted it. I'm disappointed, too, because, as you know, I voted you, and I said it publicly at the time. But today’s views go in this direction to justify not calling for an extraordinary meeting, which was properly convened by the Constitution and by law. This is precisely what I have to paraphrase Mr Kumr's statement when I read that the President of the National Assembly is an institution that cannot be played with – but the institution of the President of the National Assembly cannot play with the constitution. That's important today. Mr President, you said today: 'Parliament must not happen as a road.' It's an insult to me! It's an insult to me. I've been to many parliaments, and I've seen sharper developments, more controversial, more contentious and all. Can we say that all these parliaments are a road, that they are mobs? No, no, no. This is not the case in our Parliament, nor does it condemn and mislead people that Parliament is happening as a road. If you have no better excuse not to comply with a constitutional provision, then do not let yourself down with such things. Then there was Mr Yuri's speech here, and it seems to me that Mr Kek is also being irresponsibly flirted with the opposition's populism. Now I will read to you what Mr Luksic, a minister who comes from the same college as you, has told you who's playing with populism. He's talking about the President of the Republic and he's talking about whole institutions, some institutions that don't respect constitutional powers, and he's saying it's a circle, say the whole institution, around the President of the country. He's considering his statement that if he had that power, he would have disbanded Parliament. And Mr Lukšič is very precise: "He does not have this power. Slovenia is a parliamentary democracy. He doesn't know the presidential system." And he says, "I'm very sorry, but it's called populism in professional terminology." So, who's flirting with populism? Not the opposition! Not the opposition! And here Mr. Luksic is correct. Mr. Kumer, this is your minister. And I must say that today many of you are performing as Mr Luksic says. He says, "The worst thing is to support those who wipe their feet in Parliament in critical times." So you support those who wipe their feet in Parliament with such statements. And I also agree with the following sentence: "Parliament is the most important institution of democracy. This is the place where different voices and interests are flowing." And don't say we wanted to use it for free pre-election propaganda. Even if we wanted to, it's legitimate. See, in the English Parliament they can hold such a debate in one day. It requires a small number of Members, a government statement when I was present at such an event. The MP requested a government statement, the Prime Minister there had to make a statement, and that is what the debate is about. Not that it takes a 14-day deadline and 24 Members, one-quarter of the Members. In those days when I was listening there, the Member used a very daily political point. Don't tell me, nobody said it was populism, and I don't know what, unacceptable and so on. Mr President, that is why I call on you to take the National Assembly in the right direction, because this resignation will not be voted out, because I see that you have been paid to remain in an intermediate position between the opposition and the government position, because otherwise it would be normal for government parties to try to replace you when your party leaves for the opposition. So you have a special position, and this special position you also had to earn in some way and you will also have to pay it back. You earned it because you didn't call the meeting the opposition demanded. But I once again advise you to take this national assembly in the direction of Parliament's role and to take your institution as one that it has everywhere in Europe. Do not diminish the powers and rights of the opposition! Don't deny the odds the opposition has. You're hurting the country with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I apologize to everyone who's next. I'll be very brief. I think I should honor my colleague Jerovšek with a controversial answer to what he said, or he will tell me that I am ignoring him. I would really like to ask that statements be interpreted correctly and that the conclusions are also made correctly. In response, I said to my colleague Jelinčić that I agree that Parliament is also a place for not going on the road, but that Parliament should not be going on as a road. When I said that, I didn't say anything, impressed, sponsored or assumed that parliaments in which things happen in a different way, because they also have a different culture, tradition or whatever, the road or that they happen like a road, so you can't and can't tell me. We are talking about this Parliament, this society and this country. With regard to the relationship between the government and Parliament and the way Parliament performs its supervisory function, I think that solutions in the rules of procedure, such as these, may not all be too good. I think we need to think about changing the institution of parliamentary issues, because you will all agree that sometimes it is boring. That we need to change that the government and the ministers, within the general powers they have, are in a position to respond. In this light, I would immediately support the idea of putting a statement into the Rules of Procedure or a government position on a public matter within a very short time frame. Why not? I think this is a good institution, but we need to adapt all other institutions to these facts. I think that would be great. Wherever I was around the world, everyone wonders if it is true that the opposition can convene a meeting of the National Assembly. For most parliaments, this is unattainable or they are surprised at how it is, but for us it is normal, even a constitutional category and justice. And that is what every President of Parliament must enable you to do. Otherwise, I would ask everyone present not to overly criticize me, because I always have to confirm new initiatives for friendship on Facebook, and now I really have a lot of this. Let's stop with the criticism, because more than the criticism, I'll get more of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	The word has magic. You're wasting your time. Get Mr. Dusan Kumer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear President Gantar, you will not get my friendship initiative because I believe that I have sufficient possibilities for direct cooperation with you. When I discuss the item on the agenda, for which one of the signatories to the request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly said that there were discussions outside the context, when a fellow Member spoke, this extraordinaryly paternal attitude of the opposition members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who were so keen to teach what anyone could and should not say, what was in the context and what was not in the context. I must say that I am deeply embarrassed at what is in the context of this agenda item that we have before us today. Because if I look at the request, it's one. When I listened to the arguments, something else was heard, not to mention the presentation of the position of the applicants of this item on the agenda. The main sin of the President of the National Assembly is that he did not convene an extraordinary meeting. The question is how can it be seen that he relied on formal reasons when, as the Ombudsman of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the rule of law, he is obliged to examine the formal reasons for whether such a meeting can be convened or not. And I will not repeat after him because he was very precise in arguing his procedures, which I think he carried out properly and also in the context of existing practice. The National Assembly shall have a Legislative and Legal Service, which may assist the President of the National Assembly to address it when the provisions have been expressly wronged, i.e. the requirements. Why? Because I heard what I heard as an argument – the number of Members who signed that the request was submitted, and on this basis the meeting should be convened. Otherwise, I'm used to this kind of behavior, because this is how emergency board meetings are convened. Whatever it takes, it's a suggestion. Whether this violates the rules of procedure, or whether, for example, a request for a reference has been made to an open procedure before the institutions which are required to conduct that procedure – that is not the case for those who apply and are not burdened at all. I oppose such an abuse of the business and constitutionally permissible routes which the opposition has, for very political and promotional purposes, set in a very specific time-frame, which was timed in time before the referendum Sunday. You know what kind of epetone she got this referendum Sunday. When someone talks about how many positive initiatives have been rejected, those 200 laws — excuse me, let's be a little critical, and look at how many times the laws have been repeated in this issue. After twice, three times we received draft laws with one, two or three articles, and you would be proof of the genius of the opposition that could have done what a stupid, incompetent government, and I do not know what else – now, of course, I am quoting the signs of the opposition – is unable to do. The great ease of boasting, but I am not surprised by the fact that in the previous term it was also possible to hear that the previous coalition or today's biggest opposition party was not making mistakes. It's probably a special phenomenon that someone doesn't make mistakes. To prove what manners the opposition is using, I will only use the way one of the working bodies I am a member of, and therefore I am very closely following things and I know how these things are going. There have been 12 emergency meetings convened, and you will not believe 6 emergency meetings of these 12 have never been concluded. One didn't even start because it was just called and then moved, and it wasn't finished. Six emergency sessions! Half the emergency sessions were unfinished. And if you are looking at when these meetings were convened and with what items of the agenda they were convened – always just before the referendum, just before a decision, and always with only some very clear purpose because they were, also interesting to say, always called in the great hall of Tomšič, where direct television transmission is possible. Since this did not happen once, it was a subject of great controversy, why no space was used. So, everything that is also happening within the framework of working bodies shows in this direction that some things are spent in order to buy time from those positions that are most often the subject of not purely precise reasoning, but the sentences of various values, the quotations taken and the presentation of various documents that lead to those accompanying things not being able to get a clear picture of the case. So, about the reference, I said how I felt about it. I think that we should have more precise provisions on not being able to request a meeting with just a number of Members and with a designated point of reference, but not taking into account the material annexed, the conclusions presented and the competences to resolve, or the degree in some proceedings before other institutions responsible for dealing with a particular problem. Secondly, there was a lot of talk about how the session was conducted. Well, the president also has three vice presidents. I must say that, as far as meeting management is concerned, I have no more comments to the President of the National Assembly than to anyone else, I could say less or very little earlier. However, I have a comment on a number of Vice-Presidents that they do not treat me the same way as other Members and Members of Parliament. But this is the subject of a second debate. However, if I now begin to judge the presidents of the working bodies from this point of view, I could say for at least two of them that the comments on their holding of the meetings and the compliance with the rules of procedure are so much that they should be called to the College of the President of the National Assembly for at least half a year and advocate how they conduct the meetings if I take into account what practice they have used in the previous mandate to discipline the presidents of the working bodies. And now to the last point I'm going to talk about. Because we're supposed to discuss why we should relieve the President of the National Assembly. This question is linked to the reputation of the National Assembly. Those who get to know and monitor public opinion polls years ago know that according to the rule in public opinion polls, the National Assembly has always received a better rating than the government. If you look at the latest public surveys, you will see that these public surveys have been levelled or that Parliament is even lower by a dozen. But you cannot attribute guilt here, not to incompetent government, not to coalition relations, not to anything else, but should take into account the opinion, behaviour, views of all 90 Members and Members. And when we talk about this, of course, I cannot in any way attach to the opinion of one of the parliamentary groups, in the introduction, where the image of the functioning of the National Assembly has been presented exactly as it is, unacceptable and offensive to many, and which is the subject of frequent reports of civil society, including international civil society, that the State Assembly is a place of hostile speech, of disrespectful treatment, and that such a way is spread from this space to other levels of society. And all you have to do is wonder where things are going to stop. It would be good to ask whether any of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly or the previous President could protect the integrity of Members from the previous term. No, no, no. And not many Members of Parliament. At the very least, I must say that the President of the National Assembly, who was to be resolved today at the request of two parliamentary groups, could also find words in support of those who were given a good name and who were treated with great hostility. However, since cases have also been made with other parliaments, let me remind you that in the English Parliament, the Prime Minister was inappropriately aware of the opposition MP. He said nothing but "Calm down, calm down, darling." If I were to think about what was said to Members in this National Assembly, as well as to me personally, and I have discussed this last time, then some in this National Assembly would no longer have the face to sign under the demands for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, but I am afraid that those consciences are very hairy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor. Get Rudolf Petan ready — he's gone. Then Aloysius Potočnik and then Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's a good thing I decided today to sit here in the hall all the time. It is even better that I made a statement a week ago and a little while ago, because some of the people who made this request today would not have had a text if they did not refer to my statements, which some of them have interpreted in their own way. Or maybe I'll explain to you later or in the hallway what I meant. On the part of my colleague Župevc, much has been said today about political culture and political dialogue, especially in this Chamber, in these additional chambers where committees and commissions meet. We all recognize that this political dialogue, this political culture between us in the National Assembly on Dogs. And here no one can get rid of that responsibility. All 90 Members of Parliament and Members are in office in this National Assembly, and together we are all responsible for the reputation of this National Assembly in the Slovenian public. There's no opposition-position here. Together, we must take care of the reputation of this temple of the legislative branch of power. Here I must say that in this mandate, this kind of new pattern of opposition behaviour, not the whole opposition, especially the biggest opposition party, the SDS, has contributed the most to this House's public reputation at such a low level. From the beginning, since January 2009, Parliamentarianism and democratic decision-making in this school of learning have been trying to be discredited in every way possible, as some have said. Remember, in January 2009, how the then opposition, particularly the SDS, forced the 2007 final account vote, which gave a positive green light, the thirst that the previous government acted economically, although the figures and data showed otherwise. She's linked this to a neighbourly relationship with another of our neighbouring countries. It literally forced this confirmation of this closing account. That's when this story began to unfold, and you can't get rid of this responsibility as the opposition when I say that you can take every last chance and opportunity to discredit this parliamentaryism around the referendums as well. Just take advantage of this legal, legitimate option that you have, including those laws that are adopted by most in this national assembly and for which social dialogue stands, and all the social partners have agreed around this law, let's say that prevention of work in black, that this is the right thing to prevent this anomaly in the labour market in the future. But you have decided that the decision of the majority and the social dialogue that has taken place is not the right one, and you have decided to hold a referendum. So today's debate on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly brings nothing completely new. These are the stories we have seen and the sessions we have had in this term. Remember the impeachment, the responsibility of the president of the state. We had already had one debate on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, we had interpellations against individual ministers, and if we took a closer look at the magnetograms of these meetings, we would find that the applicants are performing with the same sentences, with the same assessments, with the same words and so on, as if a density were created for this occasion. And today, when we talk about cultural dialogue, what the proponents, who share moral levies with others, say – that the President of the National Assembly is self-sufficient, self-sufficient. On the basis of what can you give so cruel, I will now use this word, such a cruel qualification as the President of the National Assembly, that he is a self-sufficient, and, of course, compare him with some real self-sufficient people in history? Or one of your colleagues said we were chit-chats here at the National Assembly. One of your colleagues said we were chatting. Perhaps we are gossiping, and those who are chattering a great deal are, of course, interrupted in their chats so as not to chat indefinitely. Maybe so, but I don't know. But that's what you're talking about. You're not allowed to speak in this national council. That's a complete lie! True, at times it would be right not to talk about things that are based on falsehoods, lies, inventions, and insinuations. That's right. But I agree with that, and that kind of thing just has to be interrupted. And at the end of my colleague Mr Tank, who fell into another slander – I could not have a replica before, but I have an answer for all those who borrow my trifle, my person and use it for slander. Conspirators are like puppies, always slandering and barking when they're on their heels. In fact, in the case of specific things, of course, they do not hope to say it, and this is true of all those who like to say it. And today one thing about Dars was said again as slander.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Next up will be Tadej Slapnik, Eva Irgle, Villa Trophynik, mag. Sayovic and Aloys Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Let each man answer for his own actions and his own words. And if he is convinced that he did the right thing, let him clearly explain it, argue, and those who are called for it will then assess whether it is right or wrong. I don't think the president of the National Assembly had much to do this time. He made it clear that he did not refuse the request for an extraordinary meeting; he merely demanded the addition of the material, as he had done several times when I had tabled my own proposal. And what did I do? I completed the material as instructed, and there were no more problems. However, rather than simply complementing the role and thus allowing it to carry out what they themselves wanted, the proposal was withdrawn and, rather, submitted an application for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Notwithstanding the fact that you have all the right to request such an extraordinary meeting as the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, I think that you have shown, in fact, what was the real reason for the request for an extraordinary meeting. In fact, if you were really interested in the content of this session, you would probably not be disturbed by the delay of a few days in execution, a few days’ delay due to the requirement to supplement the material, since the content was not limited in any way in time. That is why I think you are not so interested in the content of the extraordinary session itself, but you were interested in having an extraordinary session at the time before the referendum to create an additional negative climate that would further encourage people to reject the pension reform, not because of its content, but because of the proposaler, i.e. the government itself. Regrettably, this extraordinary meeting would not have a significant impact on the referendum outcome. But the rest are consequences — a request for relief. And today, this debate, which, in my opinion, increases mainly the lack of confidence in the proposer, i.e. in the SDS, but not so much in the President of the National Assembly or the coalition, will hire us for the whole day. What's she gonna bring? Nothing. What's she gonna take? It will bring a day that could be used substantially differently and more usefully. I made a small calculation. Do you know how much such an empty day costs us, how much it costs taxpayers to speak in the numbers of the daily salary of Members and professional colleagues? Well, today we're going to throw away about 25,000 euros. It is up to you to assess whether this is really among the priorities of the National Assembly. But it's up to the voters to decide whether or not you've evaluated correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Mr. Tanko as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. First from the back. Mr. Yuri, when you proposed the agenda for Ankaran seven times this year, did you have this number before you? Twenty-five thousand euros? You've been dealing, the Yuri family, with this matter, and the coalition. When you were rolling the incompatibilities of the functions in the blank, did you calculate the savings and the cost for that? That's all on your initiative. And all we can find here is that the coalition has a lot of mistrust, because almost half of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly or emergency meetings of the working bodies and a third of the investigative commissions you have set up yourself. Don't tell anyone else he's doing anything. Sometimes, Mr. Kumer said, it was not allowed to talk about the facts. Now I'm asking if the debate on the banking system, the drop in ratings, the vague, non-transparent recapitalisations would be unrealistic. I ask whether the debate on the National Investigation Office would be unrealistic. Would the discussion of the Bulmastifs and the new facts that have arisen be false? Would it be an untruth to discuss all these inconvenientities that are taking place at Darsa and the ignorant of the National Assembly? There are documents for all of this. For all of this, there are documents in the National Assembly. All of this, when you say that we copy too much and do everything, is documented even with publicly available offers for the National Bureau of Investigation for the Raiffeisen Bank. So what's the problem? These are the facts I'm talking about, these are the truths. So what's the problem? You are not preventing the debate on the facts, lies and similar stories, you are preventing the debate on facts that have an extremely damaging impact on the situation in this country, on the attitude of the people who manage this country, and also on the material, economic situation of the people in this country, because instead of spending money on investments, we use it for recapitalisation, and in the end no one is responsible. EUR 250 million was for the New Ljubljana Bank. They say it will take about three times that much, saying 750 million more. They're talking about the New Maribor Credit Bank and so on. At the National Investigation Office, the calculations of the Court of Auditors are also likely that the matter is not transparent, that the contract is harmful, that it is not economical. Is that a lie? Is it not true that the National Investigation Office is dealt with by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption? And the head of the Internal Affairs Department is Katarina Kresal, who is supposed to have a legal state in the party's programme and an exclusive fight against clientism and corruption. Exclusively, and even in the coalition contract you have this written down. But by not allowing debate on these matters, you are preventing the debate on facts, not on facts, but on facts, and that is a key problem in these matters. And even when you talk about abuse of political decisions in the National Assembly for anything else, it is not true. At least a few referendums have been proposed by civil society, civil society, civil society, civil society, which has been invited but ignored and ignored in the drafting process, whether it is students or trade unions. And not only did she use an instrument that is completely legitimate, which is written down in this country's acts, to instill things in one opposition party to use something. Always a minority has the right to use an instrument and to call, say, an investigative commission or to demand evidence for an investigative commission, and even in this case this is done. It is likely that these Rules of Procedure and these acts of the National Assembly were made by Democrats, not those who are totalitarians and do not allow any other truth and no verification, as was the case in the previous period before 1990. It is probably this ideology and these things that are returning symbolically to this mandate, and there is a lot of talk about those who defend the privileges that defend the clienteleistic and corrupt practices that defend the privileged position and exclusive position of certain officials in this country, that this is not what would belong to a democratic culture and equal treatment of all but not to the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Mr. Kumer, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I do not impose anything on anyone, but the themes for this extraordinary session — first I must say: no one has prevented this extraordinary session. This extraordinary session could be held after June 5 or 6 and could be discussed for the fifth or sixth time, the same things. And please, don't push us who's talking about it. Take a look at the work of the National Assembly, the Commissions and the Committees, how many times have we discussed in this mandate on Bulmastif, regarding the NPU. On the basis of all of this, we also had interpellations, and we had ministers, and we had someone else. Also on the banking system; in addition to having President Zares Golobic's interpretation, we have discussed banking issues several times on other occasions. So don't push it on the other people we talk to. This was not the first debate in this extraordinary session. When you talk about Dars, we had a meeting on the agenda of the National Assembly on the same thing, and you are proposing a debate at an extraordinary meeting. We can discuss this a hundred times, but read the conclusions you have prepared for this extraordinary session in this regard — nothing new. There's nothing new about what we've already said in a year. And please, don't push anyone else to push you. That's not true! That's not true! And no debate is prevented in the National Assembly. True, many debates on individual matters are based on falsehoods and lies!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Dr. Luke Yuri, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u92	Just for a little while. With regard to the question of Ankara, it was true that it was my treasure, but Franco Juri was the one who proposed it so many times. I fought the Ankaran issue so we wouldn't make the wrong decision. Instead of us – the question of the legal consequences – it was made by the Constitutional Court. I fought for the unity of the Municipality of Koper because I thought it was right. I am glad that the majority of the National Assembly listened to this and that the entire SDS listened to it, as well as my recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u93	Mr. Tanko as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u94	Just for a little while. I don't know why Mr Kumer didn't intervene when we had Ankara on the agenda seven times in this term of office of the National Assembly. There were no new facts. Whereas, in the event of the rehabilitation of the banking system, the National Investigation Office, the Bulmastifs and Dars, by 13 May, important new facts have occurred, important new facts that burden the coalition, which also burdens the country with certain things, and taxes in the banking system are being paid and we will all pay. The NPU is also all about the state budget. And interestingly, despite all this, even your statements, when you said when the Minister should step down, you still say we're talking about the facts. And you found out for yourself, once again, what did you say about the public that the minister should have resigned for what? And also Mr. Golobic. These are the facts. These are not some lies or anything, these are facts, and they talk a lot about what the state of the coalition is and what the coalition is willing to do, not for the state, but for it to remain in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u95	Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor to prepare Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today's vote on the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly is secret, so it will be difficult or impossible to verify, but you can trust me to vote against this proposal. Also because I think that the decision that is ready to vote is not in line with what was said in the recital and what we are listening to for five hours. May the distinguished president of the National Assembly not blame me, but if he described this session in the film jargon today, Dr. Pavel Gantar had only a marginal, foreign male role. Everything else is a subject that has nothing to do with just getting rid of it. The position of the President of the National Assembly would probably deserve at least a good-quality proposal for a resolution. What the proposer gave was, I think, that the President has made very clear several times that the formal proposal was not such that he could go to the meeting, and that all the repetition of how the debate on these points is limited is a lack of reality and points to something called political and general culture. Last year famous and good Slovenian writer Tone Partljič published a book, an autobiographical novel Thank you, gods, for these delusions. In this part he also wrote and wrote down how he survived his parliamentary years, and he also slept a little. These parliamentary years in the National Assembly — nothing good has been said about some of the Members of that congregation, about their political and general culture, and it is a pity or a good thing that he is not a member of this congregation. How much material would I have to write about how this function is performed, when we are supposed to help this country, citizens and citizens by negotiating, and we are essentially losing ourselves with fruitless debates, just like today's seven hours when this is practically nothing but a waste of time. Similarly, the authors of the Constitution probably did not expect that such a composition or number of Members who would abuse and abuse well-intentioned solutions would be possible, such as the imposition of a referendum for each law. These are the things that would be good for everyone to think a little bit about, sweep away at his own doorstep and change his way of working. Even today, if there is a proposal for a solution, there is probably no need to address the issue of insults and personal discredits and valuable judgments that certainly do not reflect the actual situation and are also unworthy of the one he said. If anyone else believed in reality, well - intentionedness, and a desire for relief, they would believe it for the first time, not the second time. Probably, like someone said before, we'll be a witness again in a month or so. Not to relieve the President who is running the National Assembly very properly, and I am sure that when he does his presidency analysis, he will be able to establish that the well-known truth is that goodness is an orphan. How many times did the college's conclusions and the holding of the meetings give way to exactly the opposition? If this were wise and productive, if an analysis was done, how many times did he reach out to the debaters on the left or right, I think the picture would be completely different than you want to show it. What is your relation to this culture and to this culture, you have shown very well in the vote on the confidence of the President of the country. There's nothing wrong with it. It's constitutionally possible, but as long as he's president of the country, he's decent to get up. We know how you reacted when you filed this vote on the confidential. So today, too, it is a topic that could be completed substantially earlier than seven o’clock. The facts are indisputable as to how the application was lodged. The president replied how he reacted and how he decided, and we could end the matter. However, since everything is possible and impossible to do so, we are witnessing what is here today and what will probably also be revealed in the next measure of public opinion that this devastating picture will be even worse. However, they are not, and we are not, equally responsible and worthy of all, but especially you with proposals such as these today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u97	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor as the last reported debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Much has been said about how this coalition, how this National Assembly, how this President of the National Assembly prevents the debate from the other side. Just one piece of information: the Slovenian Democratic Party today had a total of 155 minutes of time, i.e. good two and a half hours, of which I think that one quarter of the time in this National Assembly was spoken by Mr Jože Tanko, who says he is obviously entitled to a speech in this House. So much for data and the real picture of who can and cannot speak in this House. I must say that today the candidates for this proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly have knocked on the open door. A picture of Parliament, today's session has said a lot about how Members and Members feel about such a proposal. A few of them sat in the hall in the daytime, a little. On your side, too. You must have had more important work to do. This request or proposal is, to put it mildly, empty. A lot of empty talk. Many words, many accusations that have been made here so many times before. As Comrade Kumer said, nothing new, everything has already been seen. And one more thing to say. It is not that this President of the National Assembly would have prevented any extraordinary meeting or that he would not have wanted to convene it. No! No! The applicants for his discharge did not wish to supplement the request for an extraordinary meeting, so they tabled a proposal for his discharge. And today, like so many times before, it has been shown that some people are so easily accused of making judgments about all, about those who are in politics, about the country as such, about institutions. And once again, I will say what I said earlier in the presentation of the Group's position. That's how you like to talk about political culture. You yourself are part of this political culture or, if you want, non-culture. And with meetings like today, unfortunately, we will not contribute anything to making citizens and citizens feel different, perhaps better. And I would like for those of you who are making such proposals for a discharge as you have tabled today to really put a little more effort into this explanation; it is only for the President of the National Assembly. To write that he did not want to convene an extraordinary session is simply an untruth because it does not. You didn't want to meet those demands, and that's all. And we've been talking about this for seven hours today! Respect for the Constitution, respect for the rules of procedure, respect for the laws are discussed by those who do not give much to these legal acts. That's what I hope to say. Those who convene non-conclusional meetings which convene meetings without content which abuse the procedure and the rules of procedure when appropriate. Once again, we see no need in the Group of Social Democrats to vote in favour of the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. He did his work conscientiously, as a fellow Posedel had previously said. Maybe it's got a weakness that's too good for the opposition, I've said that once before. He is much more critical of the members of the coalition, he looks at them more under his fingertips and demands them significantly more than he does of the opposition Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Vizjak, you must have had six hours of other work. It is good of you to join us in the hall and to be able to squeeze or give your voice for relief. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u99	Mr. President would like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u100	Two, three words, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I'm the one who said everything, both substantively and procedurally. I won't tire you, I won't underestimate you for the third time or even the fourth time. Any president, anyone who runs a body, can always make mistakes. I'm sure I'm making mistakes, too, even though I don't remember them right now, but I certainly didn't make a mistake in this case, and that's what I'm talking about today. I would like to thank you for the words of support and recognition. To those who have criticized, I can only say that criticism was not directed at me as much as it was at a whole range of other things. I was just a lightning rod or a reason, just like my colleague Posedel said. I personally assess that if we now put to the vote a decision or a suggestion that goodness is an orphan and that the President is too good to the opposition, this decision would have a strong majority in this House. Please, thank God that business cannot be done either. That is why I would just conclude, and just as in democracy it is fitting for the votes to be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u101	Does Mr. Jože Tanko want a word as a proponent? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! On 13 May, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss the four content sets, the banking system, the National Investigation Office, the Bulmastif affair and Dars, all of these matters related to Dars. All these cases occurred in the period before 13, in those two months before, a series of new important facts requiring discussion in the National Assembly. It was said here that a request was made to supplement the proposal. Indeed, a request has been made to supplement the proposal. But it's not true that we haven't fixed those demands. All those who spoke, either on behalf of the positions of the coalition's sentinel groups or in your own name as coalition MPs, speak false. On the same day, when we received a written request from the President of the National Assembly to complete the request, we completed the request. That was May 25th. By 28 May, the deadline for the convening of the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly was 28 May. And the President of the National Assembly clearly ignored this date and decided only for June to place the point on the College of the National Assembly and then to convene an extraordinary meeting. It is clear from the way this procedure was proceeding and also from the college that as early as 25 May, all the conditions for the convening of an extraordinary meeting were met and that it did not. In the media, in comments he had in the media, he stated that he somehow suspected that it was an abuse of the National Assembly to discuss these contents in favour of a coalition of unpleasant pre-referendum periods, and that it was one of the worst possible abuses the opposition in the National Assembly could afford. It's not about any abuse. We have submitted our request in accordance with the acts governing these matters, saying that we have a constitutional basis, we have a business basis. The request was tabled and supplemented at a later stage, although there was no need for it, under all the rules in the National Assembly, but the President of the National Assembly decided that there would be no debate on the subject during the pre-referendum period. And there was a lot going on. The recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank was carried out in a transparent manner. The co-owner didn't want to recapitalize. The total recapitalisation was carried out by means of a state budget of approximately EUR 250 million. The recapitalisation of the New Loan Bank of Maribor, in which a change took place in the recapitalisation process, took place, instead of the recapitalisation being carried out as envisaged, it is said that other shareholders would enter, there was an intervention by the Capital Investment Management Agency, which collected approximately EUR 47.5 million from three state-owned companies and recapitalised the New Credit Bank of Maribor only to preserve ownership. Disputes were in the coalition, between the President of the Government and the agency on the one hand, and Minister Križanič and Minister of Economy Darjo Radic on the other. The result was the loss of ratings between the two biggest Slovenian banks. Loss of ratings. This will be paid by all those who will rent loans, the bank and those small citizens. There have also been some significant changes and strange paths in the matter of the National Investigation Office. We have been informed that Raiffeisen Bank has offered to be a new lender to the State for the National Investigation Office. Letters came from Raiffeisen Bank to the Ministry of the Interior. That was in public. The one who's broadcasting it now and has this facility kind of occupied, he didn't know anything about it. The new offer is supposed to be cheaper and so on. Here we have encountered a number of transfers from the Minister of the Interior in this particular case. Whether these are new facts or not, you can judge. But these are certainly new facts that have an important impact on whether these irregularities were or were not at the National Investigation Office. We can see now even that this office does not have the kind of protection that is necessary and as has been said it will. The office didn't go to that original location just because it wouldn't be adequately guarded. This glass palace, where the National Investigation Office is now, is not even secured. Anyone comes into it in any way, with any equipment, there's nothing. As for the Bulmastifes and these stories with the police, the identification of things and so on, it is similar – new arguments, new evidence. Unfortunately, the President of the National Assembly also refused to allow the debate to take place. And in the end, Dars, the biggest state investor. Approximately 500 to 700 million money per year is turned by this state-owned economy. We've seen there's been a lot of irregularities in this institution. The Court of Auditors has also issued a measure, proposed the discharge of the Head of Dars, and this discharge has not taken place. Neither Darsa's authorities nor the authorities of the owner's representative, this is the Capital Investment Management Agency, and the President of the Government has done nothing. Very similar things happen to these irregularities with the National Investigation Office. We have reports here from the anti-corruption commission. The investigation was probably not unnecessary if the anti-corruption commission investigated it. There are procedures at some low level at the police station, and we have the Court of Auditors' first opinion. What has come to the public isn't pleasant. It is interesting that the President of the National Assembly prevented these matters from being discussed in the National Assembly, despite the fact that all the conditions were met, even though there was no need to do so, the request was duly supplemented. Here we can only find that the President of the National Assembly has made himself a censor or one who decides what is appropriate and inappropriate for this coalition. And it does not take this decision on the basis of the acts of the National Assembly, not the Constitution. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Check-in is on. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor. Every debater has a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! During today's debate, there was a lot to be heard about a lot of things that have a long history, and some debaters also wondered where we were today after 20 years, what we were going through, whether that's what citizens and citizens expected. I personally believe that what we did 20 years ago was right, and I am pleased that we came to this. It is clear to everyone that we have turned in the wrong direction somewhere on our way in these 20 years. Unfortunately, some things, such as lying and capital, have become valuable in this country in these 20 years. I'm sorry. But it started right after the independence. Let us remember one of the investigative commissions of damage to social property and one of the important Slovenian, Yugoslav, recognized horses, that was Elan. What was going on around him! Investigative committees, findings and so on. However, the matter was brought so far back in 2000, 10 years ago, that the then majority of the National Assembly, which is politically the same as today, voted more at the last session of the National Assembly with one vote to withdraw the paragraph on the treatment of the report on damage to property, on the injury of Elan. And why am I going back to Elan, why am I going back to this damage to social property? Because today would be better, and we should talk precisely about how we will and what we will do, what the ruling coalition will do, so that the strong billions that have brought us into debt will not continue to do so. To discuss today what and how the ruling coalition has done to make the use of European funds faster, so that we can do something for this country, so that we can also begin with the growth of gross domestic product. So this debate should be by the opposition and the coalition. Unfortunately, even today, after 20 years, we no longer know who the coalition is, who the opposition is. Because one part of those who were in the coalition went to the opposition or went to the opposition, and still sits in the coalition's seats. And of course, the position and opposition – not even today. After 20 years, have we really come into a so-called new policy that doesn't even separate it anymore? And of course, talking about everybody in politics being the same, all the same, it's not true. In other areas, too, they are not all the same, and in fact, they even write about exactly the same matters with different sentences. One of the political analysts wrote that it turned out that one of them was lying for someone. Second, he wrote: "Just as the minister silenced the Finance Officer. "Well, look how we have different vats. It's important where you are, it doesn't matter what you did, and it's wrong. And Borut Pahor really began to return what he had not done in the beginning. When Golobič lied, he was supposed to chase him away when Kresalova made the NPU and the Bulmastife, he was supposed to drive her away. It's time to put things in people's hands!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, I would remind you that today we have a point on the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Please, if you'll hold on to this. It was a bit of a general debate. Next up is Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to start with some of the starting points of today's presentations. One of the presentations said that the Group of Members knew that Mr President would remain in this position, particularly with the assistance of the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. He says, "However, we will tell our own, we have told our own, we are the ones who speak aloud and in the face." Let me answer that. As has been said in the position of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the resolution because we have said, say and say our views and views. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are the one who say honestly, clearly, rationally, out loud and with a look in the eye, not behind the back. Then it was said whether today’s point was necessary or not and so on. I say that all these views and views of the electorate and voters, citizens and citizens, will today be assessed on the basis of what is happening, whether it was necessary or not. Above all, we did not care too much whether it was content or whether it was the need to classify today's point. But that's right. The fact is that the point was placed at today's meeting in accordance with all the rules. The fact is that the parties who proposed this point have such a view that they assess that their option of working in the National Assembly has been limited. The debate is under way and the outcome will show what will be the result. But the fact is, it's all done the way it's supposed to be. It was also said: "It is obviously one of the most important, most necessary anti-crisis measures proposed by the signatories." I would remind the coalition that she has the primary responsibility for the state of the country. Let the coalition Members propose an extraordinary meeting or such a point, and let's talk about it. Look, I checked it out in Finance today, and they say, "Iceland is successfully solving its problems. According to the OECD, Iceland, whose public debt following a bank collapse of as much as 120 % of gross domestic product, is likely to generate a budget surplus next year. In 2013, the budget surplus is expected to be around 3% of gross domestic product. It should be noted, however, that the surplus is created by reducing national consumption. Public consumption decreased by 3.2% last year, will fall by 4% this year and by an additional 1.8% next year." And that's the country that was in the biggest crisis. Where are we? And where are we? According to some of the data I have, there will be a rebalancing in the rebalancing that will soon come on this bench, again saving on investments, on those investments that could also draw on European funds. And I wonder if that's a good thing, if we really don't have other better options – I don't know, you're closer to cashiers and you know how it goes – whether we really don't know and so on and so forth. I would like, above all, good for the country and for all citizens and citizens. The meetings and the proposed points were still in line with the rules we have in this national assembly. And we must act in accordance with democratic norms. As far as the evidence is concerned about the costs of this point and this day – most of these costs, which we are in here, are fixed costs. Of course they are also variable, but in every business there are variable costs and in every part there are variable costs, and these are fixed points, but if we were sitting in here every day after as long as we are sitting. Our salary is as it is, running as it runs, costs are costs. It's a shame to talk about how much we'd be screwed today if we weren't here. It's a good thing we talked, but thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u107	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u108	Your Honor! Today is another lost opportunity for Dr. Paul Gantar to take one, one, one, and only, logical move and leave the leadership of this national assembly to someone else, to establish the credibility of this house and thereby to consolidate the foundations of democracy, justice, and respect for the Constitution in this country. Today, contrary to this, Dr. Pavel Gantar, as President of the National Assembly, has not for the first time, but for at least the third time put himself on the Constitution, has put the rules of procedure in the National Assembly of Law, and, as we can see, he is not even trying today to argue much about his doing, contrary to what he said some year ago, when he used the same way of disregarding the constitutional provision, which is clear and unequivocal in Article 85. The Constitution clearly and unequivocally stipulates that regular and extraordinary meetings shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly and shall convene an extraordinary meeting if a quarter of Members so require. This is something similar as if this National Assembly had decided and, despite the constitutional provision establishing the quorum for the referendum, it would not have called for this. This is a perfectly identical situation, in which case the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, who is only one of us 90, is the one who has no special powers, not in the constitution, not in the laws, not in the rules of procedure, but who must act independently and take care of the legitimate functioning and functioning of this National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution. The argument that the President of the National Assembly made today, which was about the same as it was a year ago, somehow spoke of us as being in the opposition or in writing, and because we are semi-written and because we did not properly make the demands, it was not possible to address them in this national assembly. Please. After a year, however, it would have been time for these things to be discussed with arguments, facts, content, but not in such a humble way as to show the real ego that the President of the National Assembly is overcoming. Today, even the ruling coalition has not failed itself. The main focus of this debate was not on respect for the constitutionality and legality and on the problems that have led to this debate and an extraordinary session in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the problems raised by many institutions in this country, the problems of political clientelistic ties that prey on public property, the public good, public finances, and thus prevent those who have knowledge and who, instead of working in Slovenia, are more likely to go abroad every day and sell their knowledge to someone else instead of selling it in this country and thereby enriching our country and everything else that is created in it. This opportunity was not given because you did not fail to focus criticism on the opposition, specifically the Slovenian Democratic Party President of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no misunderstanding, in your opinion, everything that is happening to you in this country is the fault of John Janša. Even when the opposition has no power, even when you are going to a quasi opposition, when half of the government leaves and forms an opposition now, the opposition in this House is directed at the opposition, to the real opposition which, through the procedure provided by the Rules of Procedure, should put in place control mechanisms both in this National Assembly and at all other levels. And one of the key actors or bearers of this political story, which prevents this, is unfortunately the president of the National Assembly. It would be good if he somehow realized that he could have a very high opinion of himself, but the way he acted spoke of the opposite. It prevents the democratic enforcement of standards in this country, prevents normal debate and prevents that in this national assembly, through reasoning and through proposing different solutions, decisions that will be quality for the whole country as regards banks as regards the financial system as well as public finances. All of this was the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was prevented by the illegal, unconstitutional conduct of the President of the National Assembly. For this reason, it would be appropriate to leave this city and to give someone else the opportunity, even if only for a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Kumer said this year that Kresalov could have stepped down last year when the coalition defended her on all the weights of the Bulmastif affair and the building of the NPU at Dimičeva and Golobič on account of the Ultra affair, which is why we have even a parliamentary inquiry in the National Assembly. One part of this story is over. Mr Golobič resigned on the eve of the Super Referendum Day. For the second part of the story, I understand that you still have major problems with Mrs Kresal. The two agenda items would be held at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, both the Bulmastif and the National Investigation Office. However, the president of the National Assembly decided not to put this on the agenda or at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You are aware that there is a problem in this country, even Mr Kumer is aware of it, and this is a major problem. But the crucial thing to support a proposal to get rid of someone you know you should step down, but don't. And that's the problem with this coalition and this national council. It is very similar with the President of the National Assembly. A good year ago, for violating the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we proposed the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. You didn't support her. A very similar or practically identical story has already been repeated twice in this short period, May and June. On both occasions, the President of the National Assembly violated the constitutional provision and the rule set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Even in this case, all of you are aware that this violation has not occurred. All the conditions for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly were met, the matters were substantially corrected and there was no need, I say again, for this repair or supplementation, but this did not happen. Mr Plevelje, who is now next to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, has also come to our Group of Members with a proposal to withdraw the request for an extraordinary meeting from the procedure. That was his suggestion. He answered an explicit question like that. This means that the entire apparatus of the National Assembly, from the Secretariat of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service, has been involved in the procedure for the absence of this meeting. And since this terrible desire to withdraw the request for an extraordinary meeting was not met, the President of the National Assembly simply did not call. Now we're talking about calling her later, but we have a deadline in the Rules of Procedure. It is not possible to convene this meeting otherwise than it is written in the Constitution and not later than it is written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I think it's time for these irregularities, inconsistencies, abuses in the National Assembly to end. If the government cannot already deal with corruption in its own kind, if neither his chief of staff nor the secretary of state, a specialist for Pomurje, could be resolved in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, then we are wondering what the operational capacity of this government is. It is not possible and does not propose the discharge of either the Dars administration or the Capital Investment Management Agency, and there was also the Court of Auditors’ opinion for resolution. It does not even propose the discharge of the Minister of Finance, although it has also been requested here by the Court of Auditors in the same way, a discharge as in one of the previous cases. In short, if the President of the Government is unable to respond to such eccentric matters as are taking place in the banking system, as is the case with the National Investigation Office, with the Bulmastifs, with Darss, then it is probably necessary to speak in this country at some point. The only place we can talk about this is the National Assembly. It's the only place. And here the holy Paul appeared, saying, No, your request cannot be made through the hall of the congregation of the State, because it is not to have some small things arranged. This is certainly an unrealistic act and serves only to protect the coalition in the National Assembly. I suggest you take this opportunity to show that you are for the rule of law, that you are in favour of respect for the rule of law, that you are in favour of preventing clientism and corruption, and that you are in favour of bad acts and a proposal for a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Pretty short. We are here today to discuss the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. But you do know that our reason was that the President of the National Assembly prevented the meeting that he was supposed to be. In the debates of Members, we have heard that this meeting is supposed to be a pre-referendum show. In my opinion, the SDS does not need any pre-referendum show. I'm sure even if we didn't participate in the electoral campaign, what happened would have happened. People aren't naive anymore, people aren't stupid anymore, people are looking at us. And they're lucky to be able to watch us, given that the coalition with the RTV Act wanted to shut down the third program. Then you really wouldn't see us again. So there's no reason for that; no show was needed. There is, of course, a show in some way in time to come. Indeed, to rule with 32 or 33 Members of Parliament, this is nowhere in Europe. That's a show, yeah. This is, of course, a false dilemma, because the LDS and SD coalition will certainly be able to rule. That's no problem, because there are reserves, we see them, we know them. I once wrote on my website – also Mr Gantar spoke about his facebook, so I should also be allowed to do this – that more than a coalition beats them, they love it more. It's like a man beats his wife, and then she loves him more and more. This means they are voting for DeSUS gentlemen. This, of course, will continue with Zares, so that there will be no problems. You see, this is gonna be a show or a stretch of people. That's it. Let's keep looking. There was a lot of talk about it in this room today, and there is a lot of talk about it in public, and the media are making this impression. In fact, for 14 years there has been a speech, when the left has beautiful people, wonderful candidates for ministers and so on, and the right has nothing. Well, now we've made progress, but now we're all equally incompetent. Oh, of course! Figo! It's not like that. Good thing people see that too, that's good. Today there was a lot of talk about how we brought the country where we are, how we are in some impossible condition and so on — no, it is not true! That's not true at all! The state brought the coalition to where it brought it. That's right, yeah, that's right. And, of course, the opposition cannot be responsible for this, it is the coalition and not the opposition, that is clear. Although we now have a widespread opposition or we will have it from Monday, it is said that three quarters of this hall will actually be in the opposition, it will be a false opposition, for those parliamentary questions and, in other words, paint people, for getting out of the coalition and then going to the elections, and you say: "I have been in the opposition, I am not responsible for anything." Oh, no, no, no, no, We've mentioned the NPU many times. The NPU was a matter of request that we tabled for an extraordinary meeting which Mr Gantar had prevented. My dears, don't say what you said if it's not under the authority of the government, it's not under the jurisdiction of the investigating authorities. Yes, it is within the jurisdiction of the investigating authorities, of course it is! But how the investigating authorities operate in the case of the NPU, which we wanted to have at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. For the first time, the Ljubljana Criminal Police, this is the third subordinate level that is investigating the first. Nonsense, because he can't find anything. Mr. Soltes has been counting for a year and a month and a few days, which is 136 thousand minus 125 thousand, he hasn't calculated yet. He hasn't made it yet! We're really gonna have to set him up with a counter, and I'm really gonna have to buy him a calculator, 'cause it's not gonna work. See, then we're talking about it. The Anti-Corruption Commission is still researching, researching for a year and a half and finding nothing. It's a farce! Then who should talk about it if not the National Assembly? Who's that? Who's that? And lastly, I'll say, "Congratulations to you, you've found John Jansha." It's a good thing we have it — that you have it, I have to say. Even in today's debates, he was an object, if I may say, of attacks that unite you, just like [[Incomprehensible]] I'd say old people. And that's why it's good that it exists, it's good that it works in politics, because otherwise you fight like children in the sandstone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you. This concludes the debate and brings us to a vote. In accordance with Article 201, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall be dismissed by secret vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič, SD; Robert Hrovat, SDS; Franci Kek, Zares; and Guido Kres, SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone want a word on the Commission's proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we move to a vote on the decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the proposed commission has been confirmed. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be dismissed if the majority of all Members vote in favour of discharge, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are therefore moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 3:30 p.m. and will last until 3:45 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 15.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for the Resolution of the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Gantar. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the Proposal for a Decision of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 22 June 2011. 82 ballots were distributed, 82 ballots were delivered. Seven ballots were invalid, and 75 votes were valid. 29 Members and Members voted against 46. Since the majority of all Members did not vote in favour of discharge, Dr Pavel Gantar was not relieved of his office as President of the National Assembly. Congratulations to Dr. Paul Gantar. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is to confirm the correction of the official cleared text of the Banking Act. The correction of the official purified text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the correction of the Officially Cleared Text of the Banking Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the correction of the Officially Cleared Text of the Banking Act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of candidates for members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. By letter dated 1 June 2011, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Borut Bohtet, Dr Jerne Sekolec and Dr Rajko Knez be elected as members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, based in The Hague. I give the floor to Mr Stojan Tramtete, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, all in attendance! Let me briefly explain the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danil Türk, to elect candidates for the three vacant seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Following the procedures carried out pursuant to the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of the International Court of Justice and on the basis of the positive opinion of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Danilo Türk proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to elect three candidates, i.e. the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Prof. Dr. Borut Bohtet, Dr. Jerne Sekolec and Mr. Professor Dr. Rajko Prince. I'm sorry. Prof. Borut Bohte, born on 20 October 1932 in Ljubljana, is a regular university professor, head of the Department of International Law and head of the Institute for International Law and International Relations at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in 1956. After graduating from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, he qualified professionally at the Faculty of Law in Nancy, Paris, The Hague and at the doctorate in UNITAR, UN, New York. He was a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague from 1986 to 1991, and since 2000 he has been a facilitator of the Court of Reconciliation and Arbitration within the framework of the OSCE in Geneva. From 14 March 2005 to 14 March 2011, he was a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Following his return from The Hague and one-month regular employment at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until his return to the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, he worked with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a legal adviser, a member of the Council of the Ministry and a member of several Slovenian negotiating delegations. Dr. Jernej Sekolec, born on 3 June 1948 in Lendava, is a member and Vice-President of the London International Arbitration Court. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in 1970. After his degree he continued his professional education at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, where he completed his master's degree in economic law in 1976. In 1978 he graduated from New Sad Law School. In 1982 he became a member of the UNCITRAL Secretariat, where he worked on various projects entrusted to intergovernmental negotiating groups. He worked mostly in the Arbitration Working Group, drawing up legislative and contractual standard texts in the field of out-of-court dispute resolution. In 2001, he was appointed Director of the Department of International Economic Law at the United Nations Office for Legal Affairs and the Secretary of the UNCITRAL, which is particularly active in the field of international dispute resolution for arbitration and meditation. In 2008, he was elected as a member of the London International Arbitration Court and is now an independent arbitrator in arbitration under the auspices of various institutions in Europe and the United States and in ad hoc arbitration. In the field of international arbitration, it acts as an arbitrator and only occasionally as an adviser. In many cases, he has participated in the supervision of arbitration procedures, in particular with regard to the establishment of an arbitration panel, in the largest number of cases of those under the London International Arbitration Court. Isr. Prof. Rajko Knez, born on 30 October 1969 in Slovenj Gradc, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Maribor and professionally graduated from the Faculty of Law in Maribor, where he completed his master's degree in economic law in 1996. In 1998 he also passed his legal exam and completed his doctoral studies at the same university. He has been rehabilitated at the Faculty of Law in Maribor in the name of an extraordinary professor in the field of civil law, EU law and the field of environmental protection. Since June 2007, he has been a dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor. As a member also participates in certain organisations and bodies, as a member of the Slovenian Society for European Law and the President of its Honorary Court, a member of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, a member of the Commission for the Management of Genetically Modified Organisms at the Ministry of Environment and Space, a representative of the academic community of Slovenia in the High Council of the European University Institute in Florence, an arbitrator for permanent arbitration at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and a member of the international group of environmental experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u116	Mr. Tramt, if you'll excuse me. Time's up. Finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u117	All three candidates are established legal experts, fulfil the conditions for membership in the Permanent Court of Arbitration and are in all respects eligible candidates for election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor to present – he will not. You're giving up. Then we conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I help you? You're the only one registered for the debate – you won't. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a vote on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of candidates for members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The groups have already forwarded proposals to the members of the panel leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič, SD; Robert Hrovat, SDS; Franci Kek, Zares; and Guido Kres, SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? No, no, no. Then we move on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, each proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 4.15 p.m. and will last until 16.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, which is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. We continue to consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of candidates for members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect Dr. Jerne Sekolc as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 June 2011. 77 ballots were distributed, 77 ballots were delivered. There were two votes invalid, 75 votes valid. 50 Members and Members voted in favour, against 25. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Jernej Sekolec was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague by a majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect Dr Rajko Prince as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 June 2011. 77 ballots were distributed, 77 ballots were delivered. There were 1 ballots invalid, 76 votes valid. 51 Members and Members voted against 25. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Rajko Knez was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague by the majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect Dr. Borut Bohtet as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 June 2011. 77 ballots were distributed, 77 ballots were delivered. There were two votes invalid, 75 votes valid. 50 Members and Members voted in favour, against 25. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Borut Bohta was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague by a majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations to all of you! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Electronic Communications Council. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Patria case The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Anyone else? Mr. Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In our Group of Members, we will be happy to support the new composition of the Commission. After all, it's the third president. Earlier, the two presidents were suspended because of the so-called infection, and I only hope that the President will be able at least by the end of the term of office to refrain from bringing the coalition back together and removing those presidents from the position he will lead. I think we need to get to the bottom of this. And apparently, things aren't what they looked like at the beginning. It appears to be significantly different, coming up with a new plan of action. The true color of the actors is slowly showing, some of whom even fled abroad, with the blessing of the coalition president, and hold excellent jobs with a salary of around EUR 20 to 24 000 per month. I think it is high time that the matter is settled to the point that we come to the end, that no strange MPs from strange parliamentary groups, who are getting smaller and smaller, will decide what, where, why, and what, while they were when it happened, actually in high school, if not even in primary school. We will support this decision in the parliamentary group and look forward to further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the Survey with the resignation of a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. Member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia Anton Horvatič is by letter dated 28. 5. 2011 informed the National Assembly of its resignation as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was presented to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. The mandate-election commission presented the following decision for the briefing: Member of the Supervisory Board of the RTV Slovenia Anton Horvatič made a written statement of 28. 5. In 2011, to resign as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, relating to Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia shall terminate its term of office as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The term of office shall expire on the date on which the findings are made. I take it the council has made a decision. We are going to examine the request of the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the District Court judge in Slovenska Bistrica. The request was referred to the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica for consideration. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act, in connection with the request of the District Court in Slovenia, of 9. 5. In order to decide whether to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica, Alenko Kikec for a criminal offence of unlawful, biased and unfair trial under Article 288(2) of the Penal Code, the District Court of Slovenia shall grant immunity to the judge of the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica Alenki Kikec and shall not allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to Article 207, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 25. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the Government's Notice that Dr. Igor Luksic, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, will temporarily serve as Minister of Education and Sport instead of Gregor Golobič. On 20 June 2011, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, informed the National Assembly that Dr. Igor Lukšič, Minister of Education and Sport, would serve as Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology instead of Gregor Golobič, who resigned from his post. You received a notice from the Prime Minister on the bench. In view of this, the National Assembly notes for the first time that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members Gregor Golobič, by terminating the current affairs of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of today, he is re-established as a Member, and for the second time that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of the European Union, he ceases to serve as Ambassador, Ms Zalokar Orazem, who served as Minister instead of Gregor Golobič, at the time he served as Minister. At the same time, the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem thank you for the work done in the National Assembly. And I invite Gregor Golobič to join us at work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to ask the competent office to arrange everything necessary for the vote of the new Member. To prepare the voting apparatus, I interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly for 30 minutes, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, that is at 17.25.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u122	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the implementation of activities of general interest under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the implementation of activities of general interest is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. That's the way it is with this marriage. At the time of consideration until today, I must say that more individuals, more groups, and the congregation association have come forward, and so on. All of us are, in fact, convinced of one thing in a row, and this is that the law is not suitable for further consideration, especially because we all see the privatisation of public institutions in this law in a row. Privatisation of public institutions in the light of the OECD recommendations is not acceptable. Why? Public institutions or similar institutions abroad that have been building for decades, some perhaps a century, have a different basis than they have in the Slovenian space. In our space you know that many things, from cultural homes, schools, kindergartens, homes for the elderly, we built with self-contribution. This law, however, allows for the privatisation of these institutions in any way, if it were to be adopted as it is. I was thinking maybe one person. Somehow the last thing I noticed in my email was Dr. Hribar, who invites us Members to vote against this law or against this law being suitable for further consideration. However we look at it, but you quote it very often, very often coalition Members refer to it as the person who has some influence on public opinion in Slovenia, and if she thinks so, she will probably convince you. In short, we will vote in the parliamentary group against this law being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS mag. Borut Saiovic and then on behalf of SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. It is necessary to be principled and honest and to read the contents of the law in detail, not to sit on some puffs that are repeated online as parrots, and those who signed them first – I too received e-mails from them today and yesterday that they were misled. The secretary is probably the last time between us today. A lot of work, effort, was put into marriage, and he deserved to go from the first hearing to the second public debate. If there are bad solutions, of course, my voice and the voice of our parliamentary group are not to be supported. There are a little bit of a difference of opinion with us, some perspectives, and we are all certainly against privatisation and all the things that the public tells us. However, there is something in it that makes no sense — some kind of hereditary concession, some kind of concession. Those who compare articles and writings to which some who deceive the public refer, then it can be seen that two matters do not go together and that serious laws are not adopted and serious policies are not done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The social democrats will support the marriage by a majority. I can't say everyone will, but we'll support him most of the time. After all, it is a law that is urgently needed, or in this area requires a certain modernisation, a certain update, since the Law on Institutions, which has been regulated so far, has been 20 years old, and many changes have certainly taken place in 20 years. In this law, at least we have not found any basis for the privatisation of the public sector. There is no centre of reform and must not be a reduction in the scope of public services and, as I said, no privatisation, but a better organisation, more transparent governance and thus greater efficiency of the public sector. We will also propose a public presentation of the opinions. Let us give an opportunity to all who think that this law is wrong, or let us give ourselves the opportunity at this public presentation to make our views known, to exchange our views in a democratic debate, and then to determine whether it is appropriate. But personally, I think he's suitable. As I said, the Social Democrats will support the issue and propose a public presentation of opinions on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Zares Group will, with one exception, support the law, because we believe it is an important new, modern framework that strengthens public interest and all the public institutions concerned by the law. Today we were also able to read the answer that the Minister prepared for the letter to the public invitation of the Hribar Memorial. This extensive answer answers to all the dilemmas raised by Mrs Hribar in a legitimate manner, and we are pleased that Mrs Směmka Hribar has been quoted several times today by the party, but she does not want to take into account when she also points to other layers, other important aspects of our modern society. So we hope that this synergy and this dialogue will continue as we speak on more delicate issues. Otherwise, we will support this law because it does not constitute an introduction to Taiwanisation, commercialisation or the privatisation of the public sector. On the contrary, we are convinced, and this belief has come after we have listened to all interested parties, including opponents, critics of this law, that the law governs the public sector in a way that will be significantly less subject to commercialisation, tacwonisation and privatisation compared to the current situation. Today, chaotic conditions can foster these phenomena, while the regulation offered by the law actually regulates this situation in a transparent, transparent and sustainable manner. We believe that further consideration will also provide an opportunity to discuss possible amendments. We too are open to a dialectic and democratic confrontation about the possibility of making this law even clearer if there are some white foxes in interpreting certain articles, but we believe that this law is an important step towards strengthening Slovenia's public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? I guess not. In your name, Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u131	Your Honor! The Law on Public Institutions has a long history and has been calling for changes because of age. But are such radical changes necessary and real? The reforms were proclaimed with loud bells, and we see where they went. Modernization also appeared in the most beautiful light. But what, when reforms have taken strange paths, is looking for a look that is not modern at all, a rather unfortunate combination of two styles. Dress, stolen in a coffee shop, in a company we know and trust to some extent, and pants in a private workshop according to the size of a private person, especially a pocket. So we have a public-private partnership. So far, it has been born in many areas. So it's not a two-style mismatch, it's a problem, because there are huge holes in the jacket, especially where the wallet is, and underneath the pockets that look more like fishing nets. And speaking of fishing, it's been said many times, the easiest way to fish is in the mud. This marriage, the new sui generis of confusion is even the most similar to mud swamps. The transfer of public capital to financial autonomous administrations opens the door to commercialisation and privatisation, even in areas where people themselves have paid with self-contribution, users. The users will be put on edge. I will therefore vote against the law. Without an amendment, there is a conceptually flawed public debate, and there should be a general debate before this debate today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u132	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members! Citizens and citizens have chosen us to represent their interests, to act in their behalf, not to allow laws like this before us to rob the country again and to make a ruthless profit at the expense of most citizens. This law cannot be amended by amendments, since otherwise it should be broken down into all articles of the law and settled in such a way as to safeguard public interest. This law does not protect public interest, and a vote against the law is a vote against the looting of public property and against ruthless profit. Since there is a lot of interest in this area, it has happened that we find that the only minister understands the law. The minister swore not to be a privatisation here in front of the National Assembly, but a privateer could be a co-founder of the public office. We have been under oath that it is not commercialisation, but all institutions will be able to carry out commercial activities and share the benefits of this activity. But the secretary says it's not about commercialization. The minister says only a few individuals oppose the law. Look what's true. The law is opposed by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, i.e. the mayors representing the interests of their municipalities are opposed to the law by groups of 800,000 citizens. But the minister says only a few individuals, some individuals, oppose the law. Is that a few individuals? How much is the oath, how much is the Minister's word? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you. I will not repeat what I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members. I would like to explain my voice from the following points. I will vote in favour because in so-called commercialisation, as is possible under this law, I do not see the danger of that commercialisation being made by some. It is a matter of essentially organising or reorganising public institutions in a way that is possible to further consolidate their economic, financial and commercial activities in the context of activities carried out as public institutions. This is happening today, this is the same story we had on RTV. RTV also works commercially, so to speak, because the law does not clearly define how and how the public activity of an institution will be protected from commercialisation. In this law this protection is, the definition is clear. And the fact that this law supports most unions seems to me a relevant fact. And to be supported by the Economic and Social Council is no small thing. If they have agreed there – and the unions and the social partners are holders of public interest, it is those who say whether it is in the public interest – that I see no reason not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u137	I think that this country needs a more efficient, modern and cheaper public sector. I do not promise that this law is a reform of the public sector, but it is the beginning of one process of modernisation. I understand the warnings of some unions, civil society, including their fellow Members, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, which show that we need to be particularly careful in the treatment of this matter, so that we do not come to the point where we actually talk about the rapid and easy way through our fingers to allow the privatisation of the public sector. But I think that this law can be rectified, it can be strengthened by control instruments, so that the phenomena some warn of would not occur. I think it is possible to release from the law a provision on the transfer of assets to institutions, but to settle this with a question, through a contract on the management of this property in the public interest. Finally, I also believe that it is possible to improve the representation of users employed in these institutions, according to individual specifications. Let us not forget, however, that this law regulates a very wide field of very different institutions. I think that this law – in particular, I consider it a status basis for us to regulate the public sector in the future – deserves an opportunity to discuss in depth in this National Assembly and also an attempt to improve it where necessary. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Of course I will. We were generally told that we were in favour of privatising the public sector, at least in the previous term. But look, because private health homes, nursing homes and so on are completely non-problematic if they are set up for their money, but not bought under hand, as privatisation is done as privatisation in the economy has done. The unions are in, it's been said. That's not true. The Junkie union is against all odds, and Semolic's union, which is one of the largest or the largest, has already revoked its consent and has also sent you a negative opinion. Of course, we can't talk about not being privatized. Only two definitions need to be looked at. The municipalities transfer assets free of charge to the institutions and the entry of domestic and foreign capital is possible. If it is possible to enter domestic and foreign capital, it is clear. Then don't say that domestic and foreign capital will just come in, because of the humanitarian relationship, say, to the elderly. He won't! Private capital is private capital, and he'll come in to make a profit. The profit then also means higher prices. Of course, I wonder if the President of the Government was right in this vote, on that public tape, when he said it was the rest of the looting of that property that could still be confiscated. I think he was right. Also, the latest figures on some of the earnings that you can read in publicly available data – that 90% of the proceeds from the lawyer’s office are made by some lawyers, 15 of them – indicate that they have a lot of money. I don't know, I'm just always a little suspicious and I'd say, what if you were making a marriage for Mrs. Kresal and her partner to pick up some homes for the elderly? I can't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Gregor Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Allow me to first break the Rules of Procedure and welcome you as a new Member. I feel good here after 20 years, in these dishes. As far as this law and this vote are concerned, I am in a special position. I have followed the formation of this law also within the government procedure, and I can assure you, and you will judge this by your criteria, that Minister Krebs is a minister who is consistently at each time in the government, not only by her laws, primarily if not solely in favour of the public interest. In doing so, she has been leading or running an extremely demanding area, which is a horizontal area, which connects with her work in other areas, and also this law of intervention — as has already been said — is very wide — into a number of areas, a number of areas. In fact, it has this problem, as does the single wage system, with its anomalies, which we have after this Virant pyramid, which we are dealing with at every step, when it is a kind of too much armor in life that requires specific solutions. And the Law on Institutions, which is in force after 20 years, constitutes such a framework. This law, which has been proposed and has been difficult to reconcile with various departments, including my department until recently, due to the specificities of universities, because of the institutions we expect them to work with the economy to generate their income with the economy, only so will the economy succeed – all this is indicated in this law to be resolved. And the continuation of the debate, I am sure, can bring solutions that will eliminate all that is bad today and, above all, Mrs Mlakar, Mr Magajna and Mr Gorenak have spoken about it – you have described the situation today, the anomalies that are today, the privatisations that are taking place today. Take a look at the health center! Not New [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Dear colleague Visjak, I allow you to guess for yourself how he will vote. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In my name, I explain because I will be able to do otherwise than my colleagues in the party; this is also intended to explain the vote. This law is not from my field, I do not cover this area, but when I saw the title Activity of General Meaning, I did not know what it was, I did not know where to put it, and I went to look at it perfectly. When I looked at it a little bit, I started watching it more and more and more and more, and inside of it I found a segment known to me by the Law on RTV. The law on RTV was in the referendum and it fell. But within this marriage, I've seen a million other things besides RTV. When I examined these articles, especially on 12, 13 and 24, I remembered the beautiful events of the mayor of Ljubljana in connection with pharmacies. I've seen this story, and you can't convince me. This law is ideal for tomorrow's pharmacy to be private, and the biggest earners and prosperity will, of course, be achieved with the help of the botts. What else can I say? I think the law allows for systemic corruption. In my opinion, this law allows for looting, and this law allows for the expulsion of a public founder. And when I was not quite sure, I also read the legal practice in which Pirnath wrote that this law, in one word, was wrong. That is why I will personally vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. [[advertising from the hall]] I need to reopen the application. I'm asking you to sign up. An explanation of the voice in your own name, Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My friend Yuri thinks you repeated your application so I can come first, but I know you didn't agree. I'm going to try to explain why I'm going to support this marriage a little longer. First, I believe that we will be able to hear concrete proposals in the public presentation of opinions on how to supplement this law in the second and later on in the third reading so that it is truly useful. Personally, it pisses me off at this marriage that it's too late. For the good functioning of this country, the law should be adopted no later than in the second half of 2009, in order to be able to regulate relations with public servants in order to clarify their situation and to regulate many of the things that are currently bad in the public sector. Unfortunately, I can say we're almost two years too late with the law, so it's gonna be hard to do what the law itself foresees. The fact is that the Law on Public Institutions is obsolete, the fact is that it is full of holes, and in connection with the Law on Local Self-Government, I stress, with the exclusive authority of mayors [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The current law is much more likely to lead to privatisation, grabbing and so on as it has been so far. [[...]] It is not just a case of an isolated health home, but it is also an example of a health home in Vrhnika and elsewhere, when it could be said that public institutions are far too afforded, many times in connection with municipal administrations. And because of this, I think that there is a need to make changes, and in the course of the debate, both discussions, we will certainly be able to improve a lot of things. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I myself have many doubts about the original proposal as proposed and as we now have it under consideration. It is unclear whether in a public institution which would otherwise no longer be such, a private co-founder could increase his share by becoming a majority co-founder. It is not clear how the surplus will be divided between revenue and expenditure in terms of rewards. And in my view, it is not clear enough what is the purpose of establishing a public-private partnership in these institutions. In my view, these three matters will need to be better defined in the second reading if it occurs. And if we can't explain these things, I doubt this law will see the light of the world and the publication in the official paper. That is why I will vote in favour of this law in the first reading, but with the expectation that these changes will take place, because I do not think it will be just me, but also many other colleagues will withdraw their support in the second or third reading. So this vote is in favour with reservation and expectation that the explanation will come to light so that we can actually adopt a good law that will ensure that public institutions are made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u149	I support the law because I hope that, after public debate and second reading, we will clear up a number of matters. I'll support him with a different argument. I'm worried about another thing than, say, colleague Brado. I am concerned where public institutions, whose founders are, say, municipalities, work without the cooperation of the municipal administration. We intervened in our municipality in public investment, left the public office to bring them to a close and then reduced prices by between 15% and 30% with an additional round of bidders in all cases. Even what is evident to Mr Zoran Jankovic in Ljubljana – before the profits were gone or went unknown, nobody was worried. Now that it's going back to the budget and it's building roads, sidewalks, public lighting and something else, it's pretty bad. In Gorenjska, too, we found that pharmacies have half a million euros in profits, but before that the deposit was tied to the main supplier. And I don't see anything wrong with that. Even in a health care home, when you leave the roof, you run out of chicken, unscheduled parking lot – the mayor, you are the founder. But how to share wages, diaries, material costs, education, the mayor can't care about anything. Can you believe that nurses already have espaes in addition to all doctors, so that additional work is paid out, that it is less taxed, that social, health, pension and other contributions are not paid? I think what is most criticized today is an existing state that calls for changes. And that's why I'm gonna give the law a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Before opening the application for a new round of explanations, I would like to remind you politely not to start the debate, but actually just explain your vote because we have already had the debate. Opening login option. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At first, I was in doubt about how to deal with the vote today, but when my colleague said that 800,000 people are in doubt and are against this law, today I will strongly vote in favour so that we can go to the next stage to make sure that this is really all wrong. And when I am convinced of that, I will, of course, vote against it in the next phase if so many people oppose it. In fact, it's all pensioners and all the employees in this country that there's not gonna be a joke. Otherwise, I must say in favour of this law that it has a fuse that cannot be detached or sold, otherwise these contracts are null and void if it is not agreed by the local community or the municipality. Today I will only support this part because so much interest in the government in Slovenia, and I will gladly come to this public hearing and face these 800,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 30. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group of Members, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, of course, we will support this law because we believe that this law prevents in fact one of the anomalies that have recently emerged in Slovenia, namely that the flow of money is uncontrollable in the so-called tax havens. Not long ago, we were able to read that in two years, some 300 million euros have been spent in Cyprus and Liechtenstein, at a time when the financial and economic crisis is in Slovenia. We wonder how much money was spent only when honey and milk dipped in Slovenia. We believe that this may be one of the steps in which we may still entangle this money outflow into tax havens. Surely, though, this is not the only instrument that will prevent this. In this area, in particular, the relevant institutions and bodies should do their part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 6. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medical Services Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 8. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision concerning the Notice of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the serious breach of the obligation to operate in connection with the post-revision procedure on the basis of the audit report on compensation and the construction of the overpass over the Pluska-Ponikve motorway section. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 33. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the audit firm for the revision of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 and 2010. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Darje Radic asked the question of the privilege of foreign producers by state-owned electricity companies. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question on the content of practical training of candidates for police officers. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I would ask for attention for a reason why no one would think I'm talking about a 30-year-old past, but I'm talking about the present. I asked the Minister of the Interior what was going on with the training of police officers, when they changed the programmes and so on. The programmes were adopted in 1999, revised in 2004 and again later. 4 May 2011. May 4, 2011, 3 p.m., Gotenica, 80 candidates and candidates for police officers aged 20-25. So these are those who are the future guardians of us citizens, the property of the state, if you want, and so on. The head of training or one of the instructors of these 80 people lined up with the "peacefully, to the right," and began his speech, "Here we gather to honor the memory of one of the most important people in our history," and so on. I would like to point out that I can't read the entire speech, and you can read it on my website to anyone who has that purpose. Of course, he continued his speech, and what is particularly painful — he says that this man also made it possible for Slovenia to be independent. Ladies and gentlemen, he has made Slovenia independent. He asked them if they knew who he was talking about. After much thought, one of the candidates said, "Yeah, you're talking about Titus." Then this instructor said, "Yes, of course I'm talking about Joseph Broz Tito," and so on, and the address continued. Read it on the website. The speech ended with "glory to him." Well, then they had a minute of silence, and this thing ended. Especially is it unusual to see what is happening in the past. During World War II we know that they were greeted with "the death of fascism, freedom of the nation", which was there in 1955, if I am not mistaken, somehow removed from the official language of this country or former country. This is happening in Tacno or Gotenica in 2011. 2011. The minister didn't say anything yesterday, and I didn't judge her because I know she can't know what 9,000 600 people are doing. Of course, I expect Members to vote in favour of this public debate. The reason is I will still be in my own name, because I see that the lady did not understand there. [[...]] I'll do it on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Which one of the MPs? Dr. Vinko Gorenak for yourself, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I can see that I was misunderstood, so I will explain further in my own name. Talking about Tito's roads in 2011 is less problematic for me because the next city authority can change that. So that we can talk about the partisan commander on the euro coin in 2011, it's not a problem because it can be withdrawn, you know. It can be removed from circulation. However, in 2011 we are talking about that man who founded the army that attacked Slovenia, which also resulted in dead police officers, and the person who made it possible for Slovenia to be independent is a great deal of perversion. This is an excess of perversion, which really does not go into any context, but leaves lasting consequences on people and in their heads. These are the lasting consequences that then leave working with people like this, and that's what's most worrying, because that's not something you can change after, because you can't change a person's brain. That's not working. This remains, and this will remain with these people for 40 years, as long as they go to work, or 30 years, given that they have additional pension insurance, and this phenomenon is therefore particularly dangerous. The secretary let him know yesterday that she was condemning him. At least that's what she did in her performance. She also promised to tell me in writing what was going on with the matter, but I ask once again for support of the decision to hold a general debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-22-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 37. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. The meeting ended on 22 June 2011 at 18.12.
