ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member cannot attend today's meeting: Mr Andrej Magajna and Mr Janez Janša. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that, under the budget package of acts, we will first vote on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Intervention Measures and on the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Regulation on the Programme for the Sale of State Assets for 2010 and 2011. Then we will vote on the 2011 draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Intervention Measures in accordance with the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to an explanation of the voice. Do the parliamentary groups want to explain their voices? I see more deadlines, so I suggest you apply. Application for explanations of vote by the members of the groups. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Zvonko Cernač has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will not support this amendment or vote against it. We told you why yesterday. It introduces two measures. One measure is to freeze public sector employment. The action comes three years too late. The measure comes after the government has increased the number of public sector employees by over 3 000 by setting up new offices and agencies. The measure is of an administrative nature and has five exceptions. It will only cause more red tape, more red tape, and the situation of employees will not be limited, but will continue to increase. The second measure introduced by the novel is the freezing or deferral of funds to municipalities for investments in the coming year. This is a completely administrative measure. He will cause many problems in the congregations. All municipalities, or most municipalities, have already obtained conclusions and are making these investments on the basis of these conclusions of the ministries. Now tell me how to explain to the school's students that it will not build a school until 1 September second year, but six months later because the government has adopted some administrative deferral of funds to co-finance such an investment. This is a completely illogical administrative measure, which also does not solve anything because it covers a few million or up to a few ten million Euros, and given a billion 700 million budget deficit, it does not mean anything at all. He's going to cause a lot of trouble. I have no doubt that the mayors will not be able to make all the investments in the way they were made, but the government will, of course, be severely hampered by such administrative measures and reduce economic opportunities even where they could be increased or helped to increase them. In this novel, two completely administrative measures, which in no way contribute to the reduction of public debt or the rehabilitation of public finances, cause a lot of confusion, many administrations, additional red tape, also send some strange signal from the executive branch regarding the management of government policy in the future. Measures should be taken in a timely manner, and in 2009, systemic action should be taken, not first by establishing different agencies and offices to increase the number of employees, but then by trying to remedy this situation in some administrative, bureaucratic way, with the five exceptions mentioned in the law. We will vote against it in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll tell you what I said yesterday. We will be against this law in the Slovenian National Party. But it is not that we will politically oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Intervention Measures. Because of the content, colleagues and colleagues, we're going against it! And I also appeal to you, not to beg of you, but to your common sense. Once again, public servants are not or are not just us who are currently unpopular with people. They are not only staff and staff in government, state, municipal and administrative services. Public servants are doctors, nurses, educators and educators, teachers and teachers, soldiers and soldiers, police officers and police officers. We cannot limit national security, safety in our lives and on the roads, the safety of patients when we already have a shortage of doctors and nurses. Yes, you will say, this law allows for some administrative and bureaucratic decisions, czech, yes, but an exception is allowed. The doctor who would apply today because they are missing before receiving this bureaucratic Slovenian permit will have replaced his job three times in six countries. And the essential reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that, 7 laws, 7 measures have been taken in favour of this country and poor public servants. Seven laws and anexes. However, we pay our money peacefully from our own pockets to Greek bureaucrats, who are once more than Slovenian civil servants, if you like, and have at least 50% higher wages than we do. We give to strangers, we take to ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, and we limit ourselves. That I won't say anything about congregations. I will. But in his name a little later. What happens to this law, to the intervention law, to the intervention law, to the municipalities? Think about it, not only do you decide about your colleagues and colleagues sitting in bureaucrat services if you want to hear it, but you decide about a lot of people who help us live in peace and okay. We'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I see the hands to explain the voice in my own name and open the application. Mr Luka Juri will explain the voice on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I will support the intervention law, regardless of the many things that have been said here in recent minutes, it can hold, but the non-admission of the intervention law at the time of the rebalancing means the adoption of a document without giving it an effective and real tool. If we want to be consistent, we also need to adopt legislation at the time of the rebalancing, which will allow the paper balance to become meat. That's why I support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the intervention measure. I have also previously missed my explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, so I am now bringing this together. We will vote against this intervention measure for the first time, because I do not think that such centralised measures will significantly solve the problem that exists and could be solved in a significantly better way if we followed some good practices in other European countries. Unfortunately, we have identified ourselves as the worst possible approach that allows for a certain risk of political clientism in these exceptions, as well as an important issue such as employment in the public sector, such as the government's consensus on employment in some institutions. This leads directly to new forms of clientelism that will not contribute to the harmonisation of social relations. Therefore, our voice does not mean, of course, that we underestimate the importance of limiting employment in the public sector. However, this must be done on the basis of those practices which have proved to be effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I will vote as announced by the Group of Members in explanation of vote. Let me just say a few words on the subject of that part of the law that prohibits employment. Have you ever seen such a law in the Republic of Slovenia? The answer is no. I myself have led, I think, six years, one of the largest human resources services in the state administration, that's in the interior ministry. All governments, including those of Drnovškov and Bajukov at the time that I carried out these tasks, have always restricted employment with the conclusions of the Government. As chief of staff, it never occurred to me that I would go through the government's decision to work outside the quotas that I was allowed to work. So why this part in this marriage? Because the government is incapable and unable to master its own ministers. The problem is therefore in the government's own ministers who do not respect the Government's conclusions. Now we are adopting a law without sanctions, which means they will continue to break. Minister Lukšič makes it clear that he is not interested in restricting public administration and that he will employ as much as he needs. That's what he said in public. That's not what he's interested in. Let's move on. What did the ministers do in the last period? Minister Zalar, after not yet complete data, will see the official work in time from the submission of the law to today 10 employees at the highest level. The last call was issued by 9. 9. Now look! So who are you kidding? If he really hired 10 people, he's going to be 11 of 9. 8th, then you see that they're already making laws. It's a farce, it's a game for people when they don't have food. It's an impossible condition. I also asked the question yesterday to get information for all ministries, and you will see how thick they were when you adopted this law. My voice goes against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Saiovic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I have to say that I will support the intervention law. Of course, there are doubts and dilemmas and also a few things that can prove to us that in the end they will not be okay, but the positive effects are certainly more. It is necessary to give a clear signal that Slovenia wants more and more effective public administration. We have fallen into difficulty and have already fallen short of the so-called reform of Mr Virant, done for a good purpose, but with poor results. And now we're trying to fix some of this. However, I do not understand some, ladies and gentlemen, for the second year I have been listening to how much we work in public administration. And when this floscule is spreading just like that, then no one cares that we've hired a lot in kindergartens because we have more children because we might have a substantial Mrs Jeraiev for this situation, you'll get a word, but I can stop if you have something to say. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u13	Mr. Saiovic, you're explaining your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u14	If we have more children and standards in kindergartens than they are, very rich, then it is clear that we need more teachers. However, the key question is why our public administration is not effective. A variable part should be introduced in public administration salaries so that those who are better, better, more successful can earn more. What's the alternative? I heard a fellow Member last night in the latest reports. But the alternative to our soft transition to restraint is only harsh forgiveness. Someone would shut down a bunch of ministries, someone would cut off a bunch of public agencies, I agree that we have too many, but a message to the public sector: they will put them on the road. We don't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u16	Thank you. I will once again tell this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Intervention Act, this time as a citizen of one of the municipalities that will receive the fates of all 211 municipalities, as stated in Article 3 of this Act, that no part of the funds for co-financing their investments under the law will be paid to them by the end of 2012 at the latest. Even if I keep reading, you won't tell me I'm perfect. If there is any possibility that funding will still be paid for EU projects, if approved and so on, it is a joke because these projects are not available, and we ourselves know what the problem is that I do not want to open it right now. Another time. I have personally repeatedly warned us in this national assembly that we are unjustifiably forming congregations past the laws and that we have more than 70, I do not know the exact numbers that exist unjustifiablely, but of course they bring great obligations. And now we will take these obligations away from them, instead of respecting the law at the beginning and of such congregations that do not meet the conditions, we would not establish or have these problems. And lastly, now, personally, heartily, my, it's not an intervention. It's not about helping this country. This is a simple promise to the European Union. And we are more popes than popes. That was a public statement. Just some promises to the European Union. What about the promises to the Slovenian people? That hurts. I'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Since there's still an interest in explanation of vote, I'm going to open up an opportunity to apply. I would only ask you, given that we discussed yesterday, to follow the purpose of explanations of vote. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. An explanation of the vote in your own name, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this intervention law leaves many open issues and dilemmas and perspectives on the resolution of our crisis. However, if someone thinks that we will get out of the crisis or improve the state situation in such a way that we do not change anything, he is greatly mistaken or blinded. We certainly know that the improvement of the situation also requires measures that are not attractive, which are not good, which are actually unfriendly to some environments. But in full view of this adoption of the intervention law and the interference with employment and also part of the intervention to finance the municipalities is something that will, in fact, be imperative tomorrow, which will be necessary and will be necessary, and I believe that this is merely an overture in a period in which we will have to, not only for these two areas of the public sector and the municipalities, take even more drastic measures, even more radical measures if we are to seriously want to get out of this crisis. That's why I think we need to accept this overture. These measures need to be taken. In doing so, I could say that the DeSUS Group strongly opposed this radical measure, which was proposed to reduce the public sector's wages by 4%. This seems unfair and inappropriate to us, so we voted in favour of abolishing this amendment. Otherwise, I take other things as an urgent evil. Tomorrow and in the coming period, we will face measures that may be even more unfriendly, but we will have to take them in order to help us somehow get out of this general crisis. I'll support the intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u20	Thank you very much. There are two reasons why this intervention law is adopted. The first is the promise to the European Union that we will make things better so that we can continue to pay back to Greece, Portugal, Ireland and I do not know who else to borrow the loans that we will repay. The second reason is that everything that has been stolen and spent so far will be returned to the account of those who will receive less in the public sector. He's working at the ministries. The ministries are overloaded. Any ministry could easily halve and throw at least half the staff on the road. Of course, the government did not want to adopt a labour law to the extent possible. He doesn't work in ministries. He's employed in state institutions. After all, even in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, it was against the law that it was not long ago, and no one was. For the laws appear to be for someone else. If we look at Banka Slovenije, there are over 400 employees, but there is no monetary policy, because everything is in the hands of the Bank and the European Union, we are just silent and nodding. We have already sold almost everything we have, Mercator will go on sale as soon as possible and the Croats will buy it, and we will be here humming and pretending and thinking about how more people will need to be squeezed than we already have. I hope that our Slovenian nation will rise and do something to whom. And I hope something's very bad. I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u21	Mr Miro Petek has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I won't support the law either. From December 2008 to December 2010, 3 000 362 employees were employed in the public administration. This year there are another thousand and more, but now we are approaching about 5,000 more employees than there were in 2008. At the annual level, this means about €200 million more for wages. 9.a Article is indeed referring to employment restrictions, while allowing exceptions. It allows for exceptions to the fact that it has been additionally employed by some party lines during this period. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone, there is a list that Minister Žbogar must employ additional 20 people who are loyal to this ruling coalition. If this government were to take it seriously, then it would have done a little more serious intervention in this area than other European countries have done. In the same material, we have read that Bulgaria is reducing employment by 15%, that Finland introduces the merger of certain agencies, will bring together 4 agencies, which will bring 56 million savings. Latvia reduces the number of employees in the public sector by 30%, reducing the number of agencies from 76 to 25 and so on. A more radical intervention would be needed. All you've offered today is one big bluff.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I'm not going to add much to what I said last night when we're discussing the marriage, at the virtually empty hall. Today, too, it is characteristic that there is no minister here, with respect for both ladies who care about the state budget, in the light of the law that we have heard is so important. This law has negligible effects on the content side this year and is redundant in this respect. The only effect would be what was discussed with regard to community funding. If this were the only content of this law, I would support it. I would support it because the treasury, represented by the municipal budgets, is the only cash register that has not yet been affected in this country in this crisis, and the municipalities act as if there is no crisis. Still. But here is a series of other things that bring nothing, and in a symbolic sense mean merely a confidant to the President of the Government who does not deserve a confidant. In the balance sheet of the budget, which we will vote on later, some €60 million is allocated additionally to salaries in areas that did not respect the Government's conclusions. The President of the Government was repeatedly warned about this by the then competent Minister Krebsova. He did nothing, did not exercise his authority, allowed this practice, allowed privileges to individual ministries and individual areas. The result is a patching of the balance and, on the other hand, this intervention law to correct the impression. This law does not have positive effects, but it does bring bad messages and must therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u26	Thank you. Lately, it has been repeated that for this government, the only code that really applies is Murphy's code. The act before us today is the real embodiment of Murphy's law, which says: Bureaucratation to fight bureaucracy always offers more bureaucracy. Such a decision, which is prepared, will in practice only mean more bureaucratic work, more costs, more complications, and there will be no benefits. Probably all those you wanted to hire along the political line, you've already put them into procedures or jobs, you're going to break something else, what you accept, like you always do. The practical consequence will be for all those concerned in addition, in particular in the area of municipalities where unnecessary delays will occur, perhaps even worse, which will also have negative financial and material consequences, and will certainly have negative development consequences. The argument that this is necessary because of the rebalancing is on a shaky foundation, because the rebalancing was obviously created under the slogan "a lot of noise for nothing", such as an act that will wave before Europe to do something to try to save itself, but in fact your government ministers have already pointed out very well in the debates that it is unprofessional, poorly prepared, insufficient and that there will be a lack of money for each area before the end of the year, because it was too low in depth and even in the wrong areas. And since you spoke of good examples, in Europe they do know good examples of such cases – good examples of early elections, ladies and gentlemen. Let's get you done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u28	I will support the bill, not because some say it is a mild thirsty and some impression, but because, in fact, if we read the law, we will in no doubt find that it is a prohibition of employment, but not an absolute one, and it is possible to do so on the ground. On the other hand, it is not true that those procedures, which run, are carried out to the end, but stop immediately. It's all in the law, and it's a very clear message. And I want to follow this message. On this occasion, I would like to say on my behalf, given that I was extremely ill-willed when I read or heard of a diversionary action among Members who wanted to make just as much overnight an impression on how honest they were, how they cared for the welfare of the State, and they proposed a 4% reduction in the salaries of public servants and caused the same to come before Parliament a few days later. I have to say, that's not how you do things. Recognizing that we will be and are already working in the public sector of savings where possible and will also be needed in other areas, probably by reducing employment, probably also in those areas where they do not pay wages when it comes to various directors when it comes to various directors' awards in public institutions and so on. But we cannot do this by disturbing people with such matters from Parliament. That in the end the vote was quite the opposite, like, if we tried to do something, it failed, but now we are the most righteous. That's not the right approach for me. And for that I apologize to all those who may have been disturbed by my colleagues, even in my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli, would you like to explain your voice? Except for Mr Battelli, I don't see any desire anymore, so I'm not going to reopen the applications. Mr. Roberto Battelli, you have the floor to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize, but now I have received a message that seems very important to me in relation to this law and the additions that have been adopted by the Committee on Finance, and this is a message from the management of RTV. The RTV management says that it took note of the report published yesterday evening and notes that the possible adoption of additions to the proposed amendments to Article 9a and Article 9b will go awry to the provisions of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Amendment to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to give future consent to start the employment process instead of the RTV Programme Council, RTV management considers it unacceptable to intervene in the institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia. If the current proposal for amendments to the intervention law was understandable when consent to new employment was given to the Programme Council, the RTV management points out that it is not possible to imagine the case of employment on national radiotelevision in the future depending on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In principle, I agree with this assessment, so I cannot support this law and I will abstain. However, it was appropriate for me to draw attention to the consequences of certain decisions that in some way are of an orderly nature and cause problems in other segments without solving the basic purpose for which they were adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 39. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I understand that the law has not been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the Sales Programme of the State Treasury for 2010 and 2011 As no amendment has been adopted by the mother working body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. I see the deadlines for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm opening the application. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rado Likar will have an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the decision on the sale of state assets, as we are still waiting for the promised capital investment management strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. It appears that this strategy will not be available for a while, and on the other hand, we also miss some companies which, in our view, should necessarily be, since it shows that participation in these companies does not necessarily mean effective governance. It is this government that has decided on a different concept of governance, the essence of which is precisely a strategy that, as it is said, is not yet in existence. It appears that such sales can prove to be from an economic and financial point of view to be unsuccessful. For this reason, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the motion for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 41 Members and Members of Parliament voted against 41 Members and Members. [[The vote was 41.]] [[There were 41 votes against.]] I take it the ruling has not been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the 2011 draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Procedural? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u34	Dear President, it is not a coincidence that the law on intervention measures, as well as the decision on the sale of real and financial property, are decided before the rebalancing and in this package in extraordinary session, since these are related documents Both laws, the Law on Intervention Measures and also the Law or Decree on the sale of real and financial importance have not been adopted. And what's the point of deciding on the balance sheet, which are related documents. And at the very least, I would like to ask the honourable President, the representative of the Government, here is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance to explain whether it is possible at the time of the collapse of both laws to decide on the balance and whether such a balance is likely to take into account that the previous two decisions will be positive, feasible and realistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I think your motion is justified, so I give the floor to Mrs Matei Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. If I start with the decision. Yesterday, in my opening statement, I explained that the ruling itself would not constitute the sale of State property or allow the initiation of sales procedures, including for those companies in respect of which the State is to execute or use the option of sale by the end of this year. Given that this decision has not been adopted, these sales procedures will, of course, not be possible and it will be necessary to examine in essence what the negative consequences will be in this regard. However, since we have foreseen that sales procedures in this year will not be concluded to start, but not to close, we have not specifically foreseen in the balance sheet of the revenue budget from this title, so the non-admission of the decree does not have a direct link to the balance sheet and the data presented in the balance sheet. With regard to the intervention law, it is essential to distinguish essentially the consequences arising from the non-acceptance of employment measures. In this segment, we estimate that some major additional financial implications for the state budget will not arise, and that in essence further consequences for 2012 were expected, and therefore these measures relate to both 2011 and 2012. The non-acceptance of the agreement on the half-payment of the work of investment transfers to municipalities in March next year may lead to additional financial implications for the budget. They are estimated at around 10 to 15 million euros somewhere. The total volume of these investment transfers is €40 million and €20 million would be paid in any case this year. In addition, this year we would also pay for what is related to European projects and projects that were established or contracts signed before 1 January of this year. In respect of these investment transfers, certain payments shall be moved there between 5 million and 8 million in the following year, so that any additional obligations arising from the non-adoption of the intervention law will have to be settled or covered by reallocations, which is within the power of the Government and which the Government will also be able to implement on the basis of the adopted balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u37	Thank you very much. On the basis of this explanation, we can proceed with the decision. We decide on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. An explanation of the voice? I'm opening the application. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Andrej Vizjak will explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u38	Your Honor! We will not support this balance in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will abstain. Let me mention two fundamental reasons why we cannot support such a rebalancing. This balance is the continuation of a failed government policy in the area of public finances. It is clear to anyone who is not even familiar with public finances that there must not be a deficit in the country in a given year or a budget deficit greater than the sum of all investment expenditure and funds paid into the European budget. We're also in charge of current consumption every year. For if we add up all investment expenditure and investment transfers and all payments to the European budget, we get a negative €1.5 billion. This year's budget deficit after this rebalancing is €1.7 billion. So we owe ourselves and create a minus on liquid consumption. It's an alarm, it's against all the axioms, the theories of stable public finances. Our government maintains and rapes this Parliament with such an approach and wants to be liked outside when it says it controls public finances. That's the first reason we can't agree to that logic. Another reason is that, with the strengthening of current expenditure and current transfers, this rebalancing continues to increase, investment is reduced by up to EUR 400 million, and therefore that oxygen, that food for the economy and economic activity and new jobs are declining. The government therefore expects to stabilise public finances by deleting what the economy practically lives on. This, of course, is the way to destruction. On such a path, we will not participate in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but even less support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Just to refresh the memory, we will vote first on the general work, then on the specific work, then on the development programme plan and then on the budget in full. That's for information when you decide to explain your vote. Mr Bogdan Barovic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not a friend. I'm not even thrilled with the Prime Minister. While I appreciate the Minister of Finance personally, I would expect to be sitting there today, with all due respect to the Secretary of State. I don't think that's fair. I haven't mentioned it in 11 years, but now I've mentioned it. It's not fair. The balance of the budget, which on the revenue side is the largest outage of European funds, is the balance of the budget in which the investment content is most affected on the expenditure side, the balance of the budget, which is taken by the Government of Slovenia, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, which are the multipliers of employment and production, the balance of the budget, in which we save to pay off the servicing of public debt and to pay into the European budget and not to help anyone else in Europe, who is not aware of how poor, the balance of the budget, whose income and expenditure are equally reduced by 365 million, with a peaceful downturn of 380 million loans to Greece, just like the Slovenian citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian National Party. I think these are the most reasoned, purely political reasons. We take it from ourselves, we take it from the people of Slovenia, we deny it, we give it to each other, we give it to each other. And before us, on Monday or Tuesday, there will be another law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, which provides peacefully for a guarantee of 3 billion and 700 million. I live in Slovenia and I have to get to know myself. The balance of the budget is once again the likeness, the worship of the Lady of Europe at the expense of the French and German banks, rose when they heard that Greece would go bankrupt. That's when they went crazy. They don't care about Greece. They care about their banks. I will not rescue the Greek and French banks, nor the Slovenian National Party, so we will be against the balance sheet of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. After we have voted against the intervention measures, we will support the budget with good faith, because we have heard earlier that there is no direct link between the intervention laws and the budget itself. We are aware, as a responsible party, that it is necessary to keep Slovenia within sustainable financial frameworks, although the situation of Slovenia within these frameworks is not dramatic and data on public debt, that inflation and unemployment prove that Slovenia is essentially in a favourable position in the European scale, but it must be understood that without the budget rebalancing we are allowing a shift, and that down on this scale, at the same time would actually continue to block the implementation of the budget, as the immediate consequences of the unaccepted balance would be significantly worse and would prevent the further implementation of the budget in all segments. We will vote in favour of this general part and also in favour of the budget as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Given my interest, I am opening an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Explanation of the vote in your own name, Mr Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'll support the budget balance. I think we are giving the right signal to the domestic and foreign public that we are aware of the serious public financial situation in this country that we have started to save in a number of areas, and we are all working together to find the best solutions to increase investment in different areas than transport through the economy. It also seems to me positive and important that some will abstain, which is certainly much better for the country than to oppose, which means that there is some broad consensus that saving is necessary in the budget debate and that we cannot spend any more in the future than we are creating.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u45	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote in your own name, Mr Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u46	I will say it on behalf of the parliamentary group, once for all four votes, if I understand correctly, that we will vote four times. We will be four times against it because we firmly believe that such a fiscal policy, which stems from this budget, is wrong. We firmly believe that there are limits in every area. And these boundaries also exist in the social sphere, if you want, of social cohesion. Even more so, because we find that the savings discussed so much in this budget are not, or at least not, the same. We see different examples of budget consumers in this balance sheet. Some are squandering and others are spending across borders, and more is not giving us any hope that such fiscal policies in the country could achieve social consensus for many of the reforms and changes that are needed for this country. We will vote with a clear conscience against, against, and against, such fiscal policy and against the agony of the government and the entire policy that we have witnessed recently. We want this to stop as soon as possible, to start with some new elena, with new changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u47	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote in your own name, Mr. Luka Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u48	The balance goes to support or there is no real explanation why we should vote against such a balance, which is just a finding of the reality. So sober is also the biggest opposition party that has shown itself to be aware of this. Because of this reality, as well as my colleagues, I will vote in favour of such a rebalancing, desiring that the structure of the expenditure would be different, but knowing that the structure of the expenditure, where there is too much in terms of investments in current consumption and wages, is independent of the wish of the rebalancing writers, but of the laws, the legal obligations, the agreements with the unions, with the public servants, and that we can only touch the relationship between wages in agreement with the unions, in the context of social dialogue, while we have agreement on this. A rebalancing writer cannot simply invent and say that he will cut so many and so many millions out of current wages, for example, if he is commanded by other legal obligations. Even if the rebalancing or budget of such expenditure were not foreseen, other legislation and, if not otherwise, judicial decisions would have ordered such expenditure. That is why this rebalancing is the only real solution and, therefore, it makes sense and is primarily responsible at this point in these months to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Given my expressed interest, I'm opening a report. An explanation of the vote in your own name, Mr Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Given the fall of the novelty of the intervention law and the novelty of the decision on the sale of state property, the circumstances regarding the adoption of this rebalancing have, of course, changed significantly. At the very least, it would be expected that the Prime Minister would appear before this high assembly and explain the consequences that this will have for this strategic document, as he himself named yesterday in the National Assembly. If we can already share a part of the opinion that the decision on the sale of state property will not have a significant impact on the implementation of this year's budget, we cannot, of course, share this opinion with regard to the novelty of the intervention law. The designers themselves and those behind this intervention law or for this novel have constantly convinced us how this novel depends on how and how the budget will be implemented this year. Now, all of a sudden, you argue that this novel of the intervention law is practically meaningless. I must say, this is very unserious, unworthy. At the very least, what we would expect is for this 2011 rebalancing proposal to be discussed until all these circumstances have been clarified by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. It is not to say that the fall of the novel of the intervention law will have no effect on the rebalancing. In one part, the direct financial consequences of this non-acceptance have been justified and foreseen and in one part the budget will have to be implemented differently than in the 2011 balance sheet. Of course, your decision depends on how and how I personally act in this balance. I will, however, act primarily in terms of responsibility to this country and in terms of accountability to public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I think that Mrs Mateja Vraničar has explained the consequences of the decisions we have made before. I give the floor to explain my own name to Mr Gregor Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Voting on the budget balance is essentially less of a first-class issue, such as the adoption of a new budget. I think that many of the debates we have heard in these days can be saved and used very well when voting on the 2012 budget corrections and also on the 2013 budget, which will have to come to the National Assembly in a short time. At that time, I think there will be many more reasons for such a principled debate, for questions of principle nature on fiscal policy, on priorities, on the unrealistic task of the European Union, so that enlargement can be achieved by means of cuts and similar problems that are not only characteristic of Slovenia but also of another environment. Today we decide on a very pragmatic matter whether it will continue, and the non-acceptance of the rebalancing would mean the enforcement of the Government's decision that there are actually blocked budgetary expenditure, contract conclusion, support for investments, which the Slovenian economy needs, which is what the Slovenian society needs, or that will be released within the framework of this rebalancing. And that's all we really make in a practical sense. Therefore, I think that, in view of all the concerns that we may have, the decision cannot be very difficult, and it has been, from my point of view and also from the point of view of the Group of Members, which was previously presented, irresponsible to continue with the blockade that is damaging to everyone. That's why this rebalance makes sense to support, not because it would be good, but because it's less bad than an alternative. The real problems will come before the National Assembly through the 2012 and 2013 budget discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan has an explanation of her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'll support the rebalancing. One of the reasons has just been said, there is a better choice between two bad choices, a rebalance is not because it is poorly done, as we have heard many times before, but because, given the situation identified, certain measures need to be implemented. Although the balance is not desirable, since the facts force us to do so, we must decide to accept it. Since the second option would be a genuine non-acceptance of the balance, it would be a freeze on all activities, in fact, virtually by the end of the year. And the question is, what will happen if we don't accept this too? We can imagine. I would like to point out something else when we are constantly talking about how the rebalance is unnecessary, how you rejected the intervention law, which, among other things, did not reduce the salaries of public officials, but practically radically set limits or prevent additional employment, except in extremely limited circumstances, and introduced responsibility for such employment, which would not be allowed, a financial penalty, which is a great novelty. That's not what we usually wanted. Not to mention that you did not want to confirm something that was agreed between the congregations and the government. By the way, the mass of public sector wages has increased by 33% since 2004. Was it that kind of inflation? She wasn't. Pensions increased by almost 40% [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u55	Mrs. Breda Pecan, time's up. We're moving to the vote. I'm calling off the vote. An explanation of the voice? I'm reopening the application. Procedural? Mr. Tanko has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that new circumstances have arisen through the non-admission of the decree and the intervention law, I request a half-hour recess on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u57	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've concluded with explanations of vote. On a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I allocate half an hour's rest. We'll continue our work at 11.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u58	Dear colleagues, honourable fellow Members and Members, we continue with the adjournment of the meeting. I have received a notice that the President of the Government will be joining us in 15 minutes, so I am adjourning the session until 11.50 when we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u59	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! I'm continuing today's session. I ask the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group or he wants a word after the interruption. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u60	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government! In view of the circumstances that have taken place in the consideration of the acts relating to the budget, we have requested a half-hour break in our parliamentary group for consultation. In the parliamentary group, we note that the order of voting on documents is not accidental, but that what is then accepted or not accepted can be corrected or regulated in the budget document itself. We note that the Law on non-adopted intervention makes it impossible for the municipalities to benefit fully and in the manner envisaged, and therefore we believe that in this part of the budget balance is not in line with the intervention law. Also, when some say that the Government has a decision to freeze, these statements do not hold back, as the Government can at any time correct, abolish, change its decision and otherwise determine the implementation of the current budget. That is why we do not need a new balance, so we do not need law in this part. I therefore propose that, before we vote on the budget's rebalancing, we take enough time for the parliamentary groups to check this decision to verify that the Government also checks its decisions, including the coalition, and we propose that the vote on this document be held at the beginning of next week. I don't think a few moments to think about it would hurt anyone. But nothing substantial would have changed, either. With three days, we will probably not solve any problems related to the budget's rebalancing, but we will be given time to think and also time to check the consistency of this act. Our proposal is to vote on the budget balance at the beginning of next week. This is a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u61	If I understand, you have a procedural proposal to postpone voting to one of the next meetings or to a regular meeting starting next week, in accordance with Article 74 of the decision on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. The leaders of the parliamentary groups can speak on this proposal and then I will vote on this proposal. On behalf of the members of the groups, I shall open an application. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr France Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members opposes this proposal and will not support it. We want to do this vote today because we are here today and we will do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u63	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President of the Government, all present! We agree with the parliamentary group that, after a complication or whatever we call it, after the non-adoption of the intervention law, which also affects the budget's balance, we shall either proceed to this vote at the next meeting, which begins on Monday, or at the next extraordinary meeting during the regular session itself, which is also possible. So let's do this one way or another next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u65	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I must say that this procedural proposal would have been taken into account when we discussed all three acts, and that was yesterday. We are in the voting stage and I do not think it is possible to put this procedural proposal to the vote under the Rules of Procedure. However, if you, as chairman, give this, the parliamentary group will oppose this proposal. We are in favour of holding this vote today. I also do not think that it is fair of the majority who rejected the previous two bills, but of the third, the Chronological ones, to have a consultation of the parliamentary groups. I don't know what we can change about this; the debate is no longer possible in the National Assembly; we will do just as we will do next week's vote. With regard to the decisions taken by the parliamentary groups, in view of the vote that has already been taken today, they have already decided in advance how they will vote. I don't think it's any change.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u67	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. We oppose this proposal because we find it very strange that such a proposal appears at all during the voting stage. I think we have heard a number of well-founded arguments today that there is no direct link between the budget balance and the previously unvoted intervention measures. From now until Monday, we would not have found anything new, anything special, so our Group proposes that the balance be voted on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Joško Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Our Group believes that we are in the voting stage and that the vote should take place today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u72	Thank you. We oppose this proposal. It pisses me off again. Again, the procedure is important. It is not an important procedure, ladies and gentlemen, the content is important, content. What's gonna change by Tuesday? Nothing. We're used to these stories. Even with the non-acceptance of the balance, nothing will change. That's an explanation. At first, I said we'd go against it. When I was mayor for eight years, it was always like this. When the state ran out of money, she said, we're going to extend, we're going to pay you, we're going to pay you, we're going to pay you, we're going to pay the congregation, and you're going to rent the loan and pay for that time or you're going to bridge it yourself. There are a bunch of items in the budget that we all know will not be implemented, and they could be bridged from one end to the other. Nothing's gonna change, absolutely nothing. That's the kind of story we're used to. I want one truth. Tell me, are you or you or anyone you're afraid of? You're afraid of your promise to Europe. By means of a budget change measure, we will show that we intend to do something. This was a promise made to Europe by the fact that nothing has changed by amending the budget. Only you will keep Europe's promise. Don't play with the Slovenian people, please! Nothing is going to solve this. Let's go through every item in the budget rebalancing. Nothing. There's no money. If we don't accept it, there won't be any money either, and all the payments will be exceeded, but a lot of things won't be done for such or other reasons. That's how it was, and that's how it's gonna be, and we all know it, so we're against it. And I care about the procedure and the phase and the rules of procedure. The content is important. We talked, we told each other what was going on, and now let's have our decisive self, and let's say, I'm against, I'm in, I'm abstaining, whatever it is, it's going to be. Next, this government will have to work in such or otherwise, and we will have to continue to work as Members and, of course, help with our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We no longer have an explanation for the vote of the groups of Members. We are in the voting phase on this procedural proposal and will decide on it. If the proposal is adopted, we will vote on the budget at the regular September session. You will be informed of the exact day of the vote. We're moving to the vote. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Posedel, you're suggesting that your voting device doesn't work. Is he all right now? There's nothing wrong with the voting device. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 53. [[The vote was 30.]] [[There were 53 votes against.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. I now put to the vote the general part of the budget's proposal for a rebalancing. Dear Mr Tanko, we are in the voting phase, where proposals for the procedure are no longer possible, unless you wish to predict the absence of voting. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. All I have to do is answer why the Group of Members took a break for advice. Although we have proposed a procedural proposal and that the proposal has not been adopted, we have not changed our position on the budget balance and will vote on the quorum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u75	Mr. Tanko, you know for yourself that intervention was wrong. We are voting on the general proposal for a budget rebalancing. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the light of the first vote, when the SDS in fact supported the proposal for a rebalancing by not voting, there is no point in voting forward, and the Slovenian National Party is predicting obstruction in the further vote on the budget's rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-16-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u77	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I note that the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party has announced obstruction of further consideration of this point. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have thus concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the 2011 draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the 2011 Rebalance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much to all Members and Members. Thank you very much also to the President of the Government and to the members of the Government. Have a nice afternoon and have a nice weekend! Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 16 September 2011 at 12.08 p.m.
