ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Janja Klasinc, Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem, Anton Anderlič, Alojzi Potočnik, Ljubo Germič, Dr. Peter Verlic, Zvonko Lah and Marian Križman [[Between 15 and 20 hours]] . I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 19th item of the agenda, the representative of the five thousand elections and voters to the 17th item, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic to the 28th item and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 3. 6. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by examining the Government's notification of Gregor Golobič's resignation from the post of Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. You received the proposal by letter of 10. 6. 2011. The government doesn't want a word. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. So, we're moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. I find that we are not concluding, so we will immediately repeat the vote. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Dear President, I did not have a voting device.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Yeah, check it out. We've been gone for a couple of days, we haven't even been in the gym for a few weeks, so it's possible that it's working now, yeah, a little condensation gets picked up. [[...]] Good. Nevertheless, since this has happened afterwards, I will now consider this to be a second vote, and you must be aware of that. So, we are voting twice on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will be given a notice of 27a. agenda item considered on Thursday, 16. 6. 2011. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you received it by reference and the proposed addition. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 66 votes against no one. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the agenda for the 29th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a foreign law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, he has the floor, mag. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new Foreign Act takes into account the European Commission's guidelines on the free movement of persons. The law also transposes the provisions of the three new Council Directives and of the European Parliament concerning third-country nationals. The law brings certain reliefs, or raises the level of rights for migrants, among them certainly the most important implementation of the principle all in one place, thereby reducing the administrative burden on the alien applying for the blue card. It's about foreigners who are highly skilled workers. In addition, the bill gives more rights to foreigners who are in the process of being forcibly removed. It is a possibility of voluntary leaving the country, issuing return decisions and the possibility of a complaint against such a decision. It ensures the protection of the rights of foreigners who are victims of illegal employment. It allows a foreigner to obtain a residence permit if a foreigner is willing to cooperate with the judicial authorities in proceedings against an illegally employed employer. The law extends the definition of family members of foreigners and EU citizens to a registered partner and a partner with whom a foreigner lives for a long-term living community. The law terminates the compulsory period of one year before the alien can obtain the right to join the family, such arrangements shall allow for the granting of a residence permit to family members at the same time as the granting of a residence permit to a foreigner. This means that a foreigner who will be granted a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia will be able to join the family as soon as he arrives in the Republic of Slovenia. In certain cases listed in the law, the law allows a foreigner to obtain a long-term residence visa, so-called D visa. A visa issued by a diplomatic representative or consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, allows a foreigner to enter the country and to regulate the first residence permit in the country. The D visa shall be issued to that foreigner who will reside in the Republic of Slovenia for a period of more than 90 days and less than one year. For some categories of foreigners who are also tax-listed in the law, the law allows them to obtain the first residence permit and service of this permit in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also allows the authorisation to be issued in the Republic of Slovenia to a foreigner who could not obtain permits due to unforeseen circumstances before entering the country. The proposal of the Aliens Act also allows the granting of a residence permit for foreigners whose residence in the Republic of Slovenia is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This is decided by the RS Government on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry or other State authority concerned. The proposal by the Ministry concerned must demonstrate the interest of the State and should be accompanied by evidence that the foreigner will have sufficient means of subsistence and adequate health insurance. The procedure for granting a residence permit will also assess whether a foreigner poses a threat to public order and security or to the international relations of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendments of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, Zares, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and the Government does not support the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Dear Members and Members. As a proposal, the Government considers that the solutions to the new proposal for a law on foreigners are appropriate, so we propose that the proposal for a law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this law as a work force at its 33rd meeting, on 26 May. The proposer is the government. We had a number of materials: in addition to the law opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the Ombudsman, the reply of the Ministry of the Interior to the opinion of the Ombudsman, the initiative of the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana of 11 May, the comments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 13 May, we also had a "internal" office of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Ottawa. Many amendments were tabled during the business deadline, if I add them up, I will run out of time. Therefore, I will only say that we have received 80 amendments from the coalition groups, we have also received 4 amendments from SD, Zares and LDS, i.e. those subsequent ones, we have also received 12 amendments from the SDS Group. The Secretary of State said, in substance, about what we heard. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service Mrs. Gustinova also appeared. She pointed out that their comments were largely taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, while other concerns were raised by the applicant. The Council of State, their representative Mr Verbic, said they supported the bill. The Committee then voted on the amendments and adopted 80 amendments, i.e. 80 amendments. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group and the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 39, Article 47, Article 53 and the LDS Amendment to Article 35. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 35. In view of the amendments adopted, the integral text, including the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 27th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 31 June 2011. We are moving on to Article 18 and I am putting Article 18 and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, I'm asking you to sign up so we can organize this more easily. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Here it was already said by a colleague of Vinko Gorenak that 96 amendments had been tabled on 154 articles. This shows that the law was prepared quite quickly, in some way it could also be amended by the existing law, but it was clearly the interest and fundamental purpose of this law to establish a legal framework for the adoption of prisoners from Guantanamo. We have tabled several amendments to read on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, but all amendments have been rejected, this time we are trying again, by article 18, we have proposed that the text be deleted in the first paragraph 'and in the cases set out in Article 20(2) of this Act by the Ministry responsible for Foreign Affairs'. This is because we believe that this amendment follows the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thereby allowing the issuance of visas to foreigners already in the Republic of Slovenia and thus not violating the acquis of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much. This amendment to Article 18, as said by colleague Friday, is in fact summarised according to the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. One would expect that within the government the matter will be coordinated before it comes here or before it comes to such a stage as this law is now. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs still considers that this would be contrary to European rules if the person already in the country were to issue these documents. I don't know, it made sense to us, so we took this comment into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of Mag made a statement. Damian Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it may be an answer to honourable Member Friday. The Ministry of the Interior did not prepare the law quickly, nor did it prepare the law in order to form the third paragraph of Article 53, which speaks of the possibility of a foreigner being adopted in Slovenia, including a prisoner from Guantanamo. However, as regards Article 18 of the Aliens Act, it must be said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, in any event, competent to issue short- and long-term visas in the Republic of Slovenia for those foreigners wishing to come to the Republic of Slovenia and whose stay in the Republic of Slovenia lasts either 90 days or less for less than one year, for all that is more than one year, it is necessary to obtain a temporary residence permit. Here we are talking about the possibility of issuing a visa in those cases where it is found that a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia is either illegally staying or for some objective reasons needs to be extended the legality of his stay in the Republic of Slovenia and, among these reasons, mainly the emergency hospital treatment or the death of a family member, I can also count on natural disasters and, similarly, which are objective obstacles so that someone can return to his home country. As far as non-compliance with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned - this is not a matter of any disagreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the solution proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the opinions of one sector or one of the heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sector cannot be regarded as an official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the Government has forwarded harmonised material and legislation to the National Assembly, which the Government has also unanimously adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, your ministry, the Ministry of the Interior is known as the Ministry of the Interior in the drafting of the laws, this has proved to be a number of times in this mandate, so I cannot agree with the fact that the committee receives 90 amendments to 150 articles of the law, after all external, internal and I do not know which experts of the Ministry of the Interior have prepared it, usually the Ministry of the Interior is only preparing, I hope that, even so, the matter is still going, as we know, into the government procedure, which means that all ministries are writing comments on this, that is, all science again. Follow what? In addition, the Ministry of Law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When everyone looks at it, then the marriage comes to the government and to Parliament. And if he shows up at 150 articles of the 90 amendments, you won't convince me that it's not handball. Otherwise, perhaps that sector leader is of the wrong political colour, even though he is a former minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with this amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Indeed, there are several possibilities of manipulation, in one of the paragraphs of Article 20, when it speaks of being extended for some other reason. For example, as it says, it is extended due to some economic interests of the state and so on. In the face of manipulation, leading politicians in this country often do not tell the truth to the public and hide it, which has proved to be more than once, however. Nor did the President of the Government in Parliament ever say that the Aliens Act should be amended, but when he went to America for a visit, he explained a great deal about how we would do it and accept it. Of course, of course, the government coalition will probably accept that. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we have pointed out that we are not obliged and that not even by chance the Republic of Slovenia is the one who should be able to remedy the consequences that America has caused in Guantanamo for years and years; but this is their business. And also the ambassador of the United States of America in Slovenia made it clear that American politics behaves in two ways, putting pressure on the other countries to take these people, and on the other hand they did it themselves, and their Congress does not allow these people to move across American territory. In short, in this Law on Foreigners there is a thought about this and it is so finely brought through these articles that you can do it if you are not already. So if this Guantanamo guy isn't here and then you're going to legalize some things after the adoption of this law, even with the possibility of this 20th article. So once again, that's not our problem. The Republic of Slovenia has done a great deal and has shown its kindness, humanity and so forth when it has welcomed thousands of foreigners from and from Yugoslavia, but not so politically creaking before the highlands. That is why we will also support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 18 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 20 and the amendment of the SDS Group. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	There is likely to be a wrong color for the proposer in article 20. But, see, article 20 was amended — how? That we have said that a long-term visa may also be issued to a foreigner who has been admitted to a study programme for education or a study programme for completion. We didn't say anything else, and it's probably something completely normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'll continue where Comrade Gorenak has finished. The amendment to Article 22, which is the new fifth indent, takes account of Council Directive 2004/114/EC of 13 December 2004 on the conditions for the admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, exchange of pupils, unpaid training or voluntary work. In the SDS Group, we believe it would be appropriate to provide a long-term visa for foreign students wishing to study in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thanks again. Surely this line is more meaningful than the legal possibility of giving a so-called blue card to a foreigner. At that time, when this law was being considered, we warned the Slovenian People's Party in its position. In fact, as it is envisaged to issue a so-called blue residence card and residence permit for highly qualified workers, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that 150 000 unemployed – that this official statistics 120 000 are not all because there are a lot of those who are not registered for such or other reasons, or are not registered, that first of all it is necessary to retrain domestic unemployed workers and especially education, and that we have said in that position that even with the law on scholarship, if the government does not take into account our amendment, but we have submitted it, so it is a matter of retraining for the students you have discontinued, with this simple and it is not right; it is right to take care of those who do not live in such or otherwise in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, the truth to your love your debate has nothing to do with Article 20 and the SDS amendment, even if I understand correctly, you said you supported the amendment, but in fact - as far as it could be understood - you were speaking against, however, I will not limit the debate. The word has magic. Damian Lah, then Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As regards the amendments to Article 20, it must be said that the proposed amendment is contrary to the directive governing the conditions of entry and residence in the Republic of Slovenia for third-country nationals entering the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of the study, which is already provided for in Article 46 of the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners. Of course, this law provides in Article 20 for the issuance of a D visa not for formal forms of education in educational institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, but for the issue of residence permits up to one year for participation in courses and similar forms of education and training that third-country nationals may attend and are shorter than one year. In addition, the law provides for the issuing of a D visa because of interests in higher education and science. This is why the 20th Article was extended, as well as the extended categories of beneficiaries of visa D, also on the subject of education and training in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Dear Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I think this amendment is useful and shows support. In fact, I am looking at it primarily from the point of view of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and on this committee we are familiar with the issue of exchange or the arrival of students at the EMUNI University, i.e. the Euro-Mediterranean University. This is where students come in to strengthen intercultural dialogue and to contribute to the peace process in this hot Mediterranean pool and, of course, countries from the southern Mediterranean are very difficult to get visas. I hope that the adoption of this article will make it significantly easier for them to have this university, which has a great reputation in the world, which also operates in the Euro-Mediterranean area itself, as well as the wider part of Europe, to want to engage and expand. It carries the Slovenian flag, so the center is in Slovenia and I think it is a good promotion of Slovenia. If we help to operate this university, this will certainly be a useful promotion for Slovenia and I therefore appeal to my colleagues and colleagues to accept, confirm, and thus give a good traveller to EMUNI University.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 20? I guess not. I conclude the debate on this Article. We're moving on to Article 22. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. Article 22, paragraph 3, of our amendment amends the last sentence by saying: "A family member of a Member State of the European Union, a family member of a Slovenian citizen in the process of issuing a long-stay visa does not pay an administrative fee." – this part is the same as the existing dictatorship. We continue with the amendments as follows: "When a visa is issued for the implementation of the principle of free movement of persons, as set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely in the territory of the Member States amending the Regulation..." We have tabled this amendment because this dictatorship follows a alignment with the acquis of the European Union, which requires Member States to issue free visas only in cases where the principle of free movement of persons is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment? I find that there is no wish, so I am concluding the debate. We're moving on to Article 29. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SDS, Res, DeSUS and LDS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm concluding. We are moving on to Article 35 and I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Who wants to discuss Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS Group? There's no debate. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 35. We're moving on to Article 53. I am putting to the debate Article 53 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It's got to be a little longer here. Article 53 is a so-called article referring to a prisoner from Guantanamo, although not in law, but indirectly related to this. Of course, this article also speaks, that is, our amendment also touches on how this loving country of Slovenia behaves in the world when the Greeks go bankrupt and we gladly send 400 million. But the Slovaks, who have a woman as president, hit the table and say no. We're doing the same thing somewhere else. As far as this article is concerned, you know that the whole thing started with the disclosure of journalists, that it was the fact that the President of the Government somehow promised that Parliament would "burn" if he could take a picture with the American President in a few minutes. Now he denied it and said that if the legal basis was established, and so on. But, look, the truth is still a little bit different and it's talking about the gross dirt of politics, and that's what this amendment is talking about. Instead of telling the Slovenian people and those who will feed, maintain and associate with the people of Guantanamo very clearly: The government has decided, we will accept one, two, three, four, five, ten, I don't know how many. This will cost the Slovenian people so much and so much and we will step up to them anyway. We will provide them with an apartment, social insurance, health insurance, we will arrange their work, we will teach them the Slovenian language and it costs them so much and so. That would be an honest relationship with our taxpayers. But it's not like that. In its integral text, the Government stated that this could happen, also on the basis of the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, of course, for God's sake! The interest of the Republic of Slovenia is bread and milk, if you want, or the basic needs of our citizens. This should be an interest in the first part. What I mean to say is that instead of saying it honestly: we will accept them so much, it will cost so much, he says that in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia we will be able to do both. At the same time, the government teaches us that this law does not have to be amended at all, that the existing legislation of the Guantanamo prisoner allows us to adopt it. Yeah, okay! Come before the people and tell them what you have decided, not hide for Parliament in these matters. And there's one more thing to say. I don't know if you're going to fix me, but there are very few European countries that have accepted these people, according to the information I last saw in April. Very little. The vast majority of them are such as Germany and so on, who have accepted their citizens, because they must accept them anyway – their citizens, and there are very few countries that have accepted prisoners or whatever we call them from Guantanamo in the way we intend to accept them. There are very few of these countries. In Germany they accepted those two or three, and they said, but now not anymore, and they were, as far as I know, their citizens. And this million-dollar and million-dollar Germany says no, actually it says no. And Slovenia says yes. And Slovenia says yes, but we don't even know what we're going to take now, because we don't know if you're going to bring one bus or one bus. But tell the Slovenes what it's like, tell them how much it costs and what we're going to offer them. I'm not saying I'm against it at all, I'm not saying I'm against it at all, but I'm against such sly legislation and government if you want to paint people. That's what I am. And what do we propose with this amendment? With this amendment, we propose that you no longer speak of the 'national interest of the Republic of Slovenia', but the prisoner from Guantanamo, whom the United States does not want to accept and who has been illegally held there for 10 years, is writing to us about how we do not respect any human rights, let's say those about the deleted. They teach us about this, and they keep them illegally closed for 10 years and then say, no, they will not come to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and now you take them to Slovenia. What do we propose here in the amendment? Nothing but that this gentleman or these gentlemen, as many as he is, should be asked to come to Slovenia and we can look at who they are in Slovenia. Otherwise it is the problem of these people, and this deadline is given from 5 years to 3 years, this is the content of the amendment. [[...]] Otherwise, the matter is very clear. Any of these will come, yes, forgive me, as I believe we all know that movement within the European Union is free. How are we going to keep him in Slovenia, we're going to lock him up? No, no, no. Will he be able to go to the European Union? Yeah, he'll be able to go. Will the German and the Czech Czech be able to come to Slovenia? Yeah, they'll be able to come. Will they be able to travel outside the European Union? Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think so. So what did we do? Nothing. Above all, that's what's troubling is that you don't want to tell the people what time it is. If there is no need to change the law, as we have heard in the adoption process, I am perfectly fine, and I have no influence as an opposition Member on this. What I miss, however, is the clear and loud word of the Minister of the Interior, if the President of the Government doesn't have time, she likes it very much, you know, to come to the media and cry, how she doesn't like Gorenak. Let him step in front of the cameras and tell us. The cost of staying will be so much, the price of food will be so much or what I know, what, the price of the language course will cost so much, the health insurance will cost so much, the job will be arranged, the apartment will cost so much. But that is what people need to know, not hide it all, but say, "in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia". Please! And then in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia, we buy a cat in a frog or we get in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia x people from Guantanamo, and we don't even know how many we're going to get. Given the government's strange moves lately, it might as well be a bus, why not? Or a plane, like, I don't know. In short, I'm extremely disturbed by the way the government does it. Everything is in some national interest, from Greece to Ireland and I do not know who Guantanamo is now, and it is not in the national interest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia that people have a salary of 500 euros, and that is not. Well, say it's demagogic as you wish, but it's true, people know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Havela beautiful. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. When we presented our views on this law in the Slovenian National Party, we stressed that we regret that the proposed law also brings some new solutions that we supported and welcomed, but that this law would undermine everything in the way and with the content of the existing, so not the amendment we are talking about, 53rd articles, at least for the Slovenian National Party. This is not about the national interest of Slovenia, but it is about the interests of individuals within the Slovenian government and Slovenian leadership. It is already ugly here to hide behind the interests of the Slovenian people. In no way is it in the interest of the Slovenian people and the Slovenians to accept prisoners from one, I do not know how to say it, prison or whatever, where someone else is supposed to say it unjustifiably or justifiably, I do not know whether to say it themselves. At least in the way that we regulate such things through law. And so I don't know today whether this law was written to actually improve some content and was written just because of that moment even the 53rd article that gives all these possibilities or vice versa, which we believe in in the Slovenian National Party. That the whole law was written and written just because we had a request from a ruler called the U.S., which, of course, was clear and obvious, had been fulfilled and that we promised to receive some prisoners who, once again, were absolutely not in the interest of the Slovenian people, at least these prisoners were not. Where they have committed or are suspected of a crime, let them be tried there and forgiven there, or imprisoned if proven guilty. Slovenia is not about two, these two have relatives who will come along, and these relatives have relatives and friends. And all the costs that the predecessor was talking about will be multiplied. Certainly not, once again we say in the Slovenian National Party, it is not possible to accept some exceptions such as granting a temporary residence permit to a foreigner who is in the interest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, but under the same conditions this is precisely the reason for rejecting the application. In the event of such differences, in the face of such low-level enforcement of certain content into the law, that they will then point to me with a finger "you have accepted me", we will support the proposed amendment, which at least partially changes the SDS colleagues, but precisely because of this article, which I say once again that we claim that it is written on purpose and on the basis of the wishes of individual representatives of the Slovenian Government and made promises outside the Slovenian nation, so I say this law, even later on, we will not support it in the Slovenian National Party, exactly on the basis of the guilt of Article 53. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that it does not seem right for the law's proponents to keep talking about the third paragraph of Article 53 of the law being intended for the admission of prisoners from Guantanamo. We have already explained several times that this is a general legal basis that allows for a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in accordance with some interest expressed by the Republic of Slovenia, a designated foreigner to be granted a temporary residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia and this interest is not only political, this interest can also be cultural, it can also be from the field of science, it can also be from the field of economics, we are not simply talking about the fact that the third paragraph of Article 53 is intended only to be written in order for the Government to decide from some national interest of the Republic of Slovenia to accept a prisoner from Guantanamo and it is also necessary to understand the provision of this article in this broader context, because otherwise we create a false impression that we are subordinate to the interests of anyone in world policy and that we want to play an inappropriate role, which is not true and is not true. With regard to the care expressed for a foreigner who would have come to the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to say that the Ministry of the Interior has been implementing individual integration programmes for all foreigners coming to the Republic of Slovenia and obtaining a temporary residence permit and also in certain specific cases, if spoken in categories that are somewhat specific, a programme of integration involving various measures, including psychosocial assistance as well as knowledge of Slovenian language, knowledge of Slovenian culture, knowledge of Slovenian history, Slovenian political arrangements, legal arrangements and so on. In short, it is the whole conglomerate of measures that are produced or produced for groups that, of course, can also, at the final stage for individuals, if it is found that, in order to facilitate the integration of an individual into a Slovenian society, such a programme should be specifically developed. As far as the requests are concerned, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in its amendment, we have supplemented the law with a provision that the procedure for granting a permit from one of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia can only be initiated if the consent of the foreigner is also given. Without this consent, we cannot begin the procedure in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thanks again. So on the Foreign Policy Committee, we were informed that this article was not necessary in order for prisoners from Guantanamo to come. This was also agreed with by the distinguished lawyer Dr Ljubo Bavcon, and in the final stage I fear more than these two, one to two prisoners from Guantanamo who are still hanging somewhere in the air, because the most basic point they have to fulfil is to show interest in coming to our country, and what is of great interest, the rest of the promises made by the Prime Minister to President Obama. I have a feeling that these prisoners in Guantanamo have heard about Slovenia as a land that has been plundered as if it were going over the Hunov gang, so that nothing works anymore, so there is no interest. However, I am more afraid that the doors opened by one or two prisoners in the sense of marriage will then be misused indefinitely for any other group of people who would certainly not be welcome in our country, but because of some political services or something else they might still be able to come. So, instead of one or two, I would say, controlling prisoners can come in the same content, under the same legal provisions of other groups of people that we don't even know how dangerous they can be, but they can prove much more dangerous later than these two prisoners. There's no interest. However, they can come under the same conditions, under the same legislation as in the last 20 years more than 10,000 refugees have come from countries of the former Yugoslavia, and there was no need to amend legislation. I think Slovenia has done its humanitarian homework well. I do not believe that the adoption of two prisoners requires that the law be amended so quickly that it has to be amended with 96 amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Article 53 speaks of the residence permit for other justified reasons and for the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This third paragraph, which we object to, among others, states: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from an interested ministry or other state authority, decides that there is an interest in the Republic of Slovenia in granting a temporary residence permit for foreigners." We are convinced in our Group that this article should be formulated differently, so we have also proposed a relatively large amendment proposing that the procedure should be introduced on the proposal of an individual who expresses his intention to reside in the Republic of Slovenia and not on the proposal of a ministry, but who wants to go to Slovenia should, however, submit this proposal for residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, it is interesting that this 53rd paragraph is a length of quite two printed pages. That's basically for the two Guantanamo prisoners that we give them in this way a legal framework. What if we wanted to bring 25 000 Chinese to Slovenia, spoken of by President Borut Pahor at a closed session, in a closed meeting with Slovenian journalists, with the Slovenian press elite? Borut Pahor then said that the Chinese did not take into account, they made a insanely deceptive offer for railways, the problem is that they set the conditions for them to come with all the engineering and technical staff, which would mean 25 thousand Chinese to build modern railways. Twenty-five thousand Chinese can't afford social security! Where would we put them? Borut Pahor was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He has a word, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I ask explicitly for two answers to this amendment. In February or January of this year, the Prime Minister of the Government said: "We will welcome the Guantanamo prisoner, this is not related to my visit to the United States of America if Parliament creates legal bases and if there is political consensus for this." Something like that. In short, if Parliament creates legal bases. And you now claim that the legal basis is for admission. Who's right now, Prime Minister or you, tell me. That's the first question. And another question. If this has nothing to do with Guantanamo, then tell me in front of the cameras how much you'll accept them and how much it'll cost. Tell me that if it's not related to this. And I'm still saying that in cotton you're wrapping and you're saying, it's a national interest that you're tralalalalalalalalalalala. [[...]] The national interest is EUR 500 to the Slovenians, which is a national interest, and will have something to put in the writer. Only seven European Union countries have accepted these people. Why does Slovenia have to be the eighth? Why? He'll probably be offering money or something at some point in Spain's bankruptcy, with our people having nothing to eat. And you're not gonna convince me of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It was expected that this article would open up the most bile debates, from which it was possible to understand above all the opposition to the Government's intention to allow, by means of a new law or by amending the law, a slightly faster and more direct way of admitting foreigners, particularly in those cases in Article 53, when it comes to the interests of the State, to facilitate the bureaucratic path towards such a permit. It is true, as opposition colleagues say, from the SDS that this is probably also linked to the Guantanamo issue. And I'm not so naive as to believe that the question arose when we faced the expectation of Guantanamo. But this law, when it settles all these aspects, will probably settle this whole thing, and then maybe Guantanamo won't be the current issue at all. Maybe there will be other questions, maybe Libya, maybe Tunisia, maybe there will be other countries. But when we discussed and asked the government why such a change was needed, if the current legislation actually allowed the admission of foreigners, the explanation was quite convincing. There are now administrative procedures that need to be strictly followed and which significantly impede the issuance of such permits. And it's not just a matter of humanitarian gesture to the Guantanams. This is a whole range of foreigners who would like to go to our country, and today I can certainly argue here and can also empirically prove that Slovenia is one of the most closed countries to foreigners. It is not a target country, in fact there are few foreigners, especially few who would choose our country as a country of asylum, asylum and political and other rights. But regardless of Guantanamo, this article in the law also regulates cases where our potential national interest is detected. And I'll give you some examples: it's about scientists, it's about professors, it's about university professors, it's about students. We still have problems issuing visas today to some prominent representatives of the academic sphere from abroad. This is happening today. If we had a marriage, if the amended marriage was like this, all paths would be easier. And if that means we're gonna take one or two prisoners from Guantanamo, what's wrong with that? This will be easier to arrange than if we send them now through diplomatic and consular representations and should fill out all those forms that are sometimes impossible. Excuse me, I was in diplomacy, and I know how many people we gave a visa to enter Slovenia, but when they landed at the police station on the border, they weren't released without an explanation. No reason, no explanation, because that's what we call marriage. In this way, we avoid a number of bureaucratic inconveniences and give the State the opportunity to allow a foreigner, for whom we can sense and track some interest in our country, to come to us or because it is an expert or because it is a good athlete or because it is a culturer, an artist or because it is a politically oppressed person and we want to allow it to happen as soon as possible by this law and this article is settled. If your amendment, colleagues from the SDS, were to adopt so many inconsistencies in the law itself, because if you read the beginning a little bit, "a foreigner whose residence in the Republic of Slovenia is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia" would, in the end, ask this foreigner to make a request for the Government to also determine whether he has the means of survival – what Guantanamo or other refugees to have the means of survival? It is probably in this sense of political asylum that we allow them to survive. In short, there is a lot of senseless contradictions in this amendment of yours, which is why it cannot be accepted. I believe, and also in the Group of Members, that the solution offered by the Government is significantly clearer, more specific and allows for direct decision-making on the basis of concrete facts. Now, if we want to make this more complicated, it is better to delete this article, but if we delete this article, then we have not achieved an effect. And that's what this is all about. So we will vote against this amendment and support the government proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you. Since there is still interest, I am opening an application for a debate on Article 53. You'll get your word right away, Mr. Lah. Here you go, Mr. Lach. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As far as the scope of Article 53 is concerned, I would like to say, of course, that the 53rd paragraph does not speak of national interest, that is to say only the third paragraph of Article 53 is concerned, and the scope of this Article is not dependent on the desire or will to allow a person to reside in the Republic of Slovenia of national interest; that is, the first paragraph of this Article speaks of the possibility of granting a temporary residence permit for other justified reasons such as: an international contract, let's say someone can be granted a temporary residence permit in Slovenia even if he owns any real estate in the Republic of Slovenia. Then the second paragraph speaks very clearly of foreigners who are granted a temporary residence permit due to the principle of 'non refoulement' and, of course, we cannot remove them from the Republic of Slovenia, the second paragraph of this Article of the Act is intended to speak of national interest. As far as the existing legal basis and the possibility of exercising this interest are concerned, the position of the Ministry of the Interior has always been that the Law on International Protection is not the right basis for us to exercise national interest even for these reasons that we are talking about today. Not from political, not from scientific, not from cultural, not from any other. Since the Law on International Protection imposes a number of procedural obstacles that prevent a person from being granted international protection status. Of course, the most important procedural obstacle is to verify in the process of obtaining international protection status that the applicant can be returned to the country of origin and not to the country of temporary residence. Of course, in the case that we are talking about most widely and intensively today, we do not see the possibility of returning the applicant for international protection to the country of origin. Therefore, we cannot use the Law on International Protection as a legal basis. The national interest referred to in Article 53 in paragraph 3 shall not be the refugees of this law. In fact, the Citizenship Act has been 20 years old, and you are certainly all well aware of this, the possibility for citizenship to be granted to a foreigner of national interest, and this often happens in the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, we are not talking for the first time about national interest. As far as the number of countries that have accepted prisoners from Guantanamo is concerned, it must be said that these countries are from the European Union premises 12 which have accepted prisoners from Guantanamo. They've received 32 of them. In addition to these 12 there are 6 other countries that have accepted 16 prisoners. All countries that have accepted prisoners from Guantanamo are 18. In total, 48 prisoners from Guantanamo were admitted. Slovenia is not one of those rare countries that, if such will had been taken by the Government, could have been one of the few countries that would have adopted such a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have problems, namely, with Mr Yuri coming into the hall, shoot 10 flossules and leave. Well, I hope he comes back. I don't know any professors who would like to come to Slovenia and teach and develop science here. But I know the professors who run from Slovenia, and that's true, we're in the clear. I don't know a lot of athletes, those who come to Slovenia are anyway covered by existing legislation and we give them even citizenship under certain conditions. And he's talking about all these stories. Of course, if the state of Slovenia did the same as Germany said, and we need 30,000 computer engineers, and they would, in saying, import from third countries, that would be fine. But if we say otherwise, we say that in the national interest in which we have adopted other categories of people so far, or for political reasons, if someone is persecuted. I'm sorry to remind you that Slovenia has already survived 40,000 people from other republics when there was a war, and many of them stayed here, got a job and so on. Slovenia has already given a great deal in comparison with other European countries. And there's no reason to paint the Slovenians for national reasons, for which we'll welcome the people of Guantanamo. There's no reason! I did not get the answer to the question I wanted, so how is it that the Prime Minister says there is no need for amended legislation and, on the other hand, you say that this has nothing to do with Guantanamo? At the very least, that's a minimum, minimum of minimum, or you don't think these people could at least write a request to come to Slovenia. At least have them write a request. No, you're not ready to do that either, and neither are you. But the government will decide when, if it will, it will not be, it will be clear, because it wants to be democratic and beautiful in Europe, but it is not interested in Slovenians and our citizens, whether they are citizens, it will be very clear for a very long time, and so the government will just determine that it is in the national interest to get them I don't know, one, two, three, four, five or one bus from Guantanamo. Tell me how much! And tell me how much it's gonna cost! Tell that to Slovenian citizens, that is, our citizens. Of course, the national interest you said, Secretary of State, 18 countries have accepted 48 of these people. Please add information on how many European Union citizens have already been. This information is more important because you have to accept it anyway. Once again, the impossible situation in this government's behaviour is absolutely impossible to melt from Greece to Ireland to Portugal, with nothing to eat at home. Yeah, sorry, you guys get upset, you can go out if you don't want to listen. But that's right. In Slovenia, there are 120 000 people unemployed, and we send them to Greece, Ireland, Portugal, we accept Guantanamo and so on. Yes, because you already rule on the Moon, because you are no longer in Slovenia, you are on the Moon, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you. Yes, I see interest, so I am opening up a re-application for the debate on Article 53 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Richter, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to advertise, but my respectable colleague, I don't know what you're spreading your story from fairy tale to fairy tale, I think, and literally or from fairy tale to fairy tale, yes, one day so one day so. [[...]] But you say there is no great interest in education, education, science. And I know what a few colleagues I have in Europe who would be very happy to come and teach at the university, especially from my area of heritage, museumology, if it could be done without these technical brakes that we have. But what colleague Juri also said, and you are well aware that there have been many problems in the field of creativity, art and culture, for years. If our creators are very happy to accept, not least today we have just one good news or it was yesterday that our creator is among the three best creative artists in the world in the third place, accepted with greatness, I will say, with the joy of open doors, and in our Slovenian institutions and, finally, other creativity, there are very great problems in getting creators in these institutions and allowing them a free way to work and create. That is why the proposal referred to in Article 53, when you say that the opinion should justify the existence of interest and provide evidence that the alien has sufficient means of survival and adequate health care and so on, is truly so detailed and unacceptable for certain content that it would be good if you really look at the past and how we have worked with people at last how we are discussing our people who are happy to be open also abroad, and there is probably another story, and this law does not talk about it and does not debate it. [[...]] By prejudging how we will just accept, as you said, a bus or a good train of foreigners, it seems really irresponsible and an act, and not least a proposal, and it would be good to look at what we are acquiring in this law, we are improving all those problems that have accumulated or accumulated in the past and are literally a reflection of a state in which not least the area of culture and work education in a very, very difficult environment and conditions. So that I absolutely cannot support this amendment of yours to Article 53 due to probably any other details that arise or hide in this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I'll start by saying I support this amendment. Earlier, a colleague spoke about people working in the field of culture and sport, well, here I would still understand things, but I don't understand why they get Slovenian citizenship from these areas or mainly from cultural areas, those who spoke against Slovenia's independence in 1990 by smoking. But we're moving on. But I don't understand what Guantanamo has here. I don't understand why it would be Slovenia's national interest to accept someone from Guantanamo, even if they were innocent. This should be solved by those who were put there in Guantanamo, not least until in the United States this president was like now, but one another, this is the problem of the United States to solve. But now that you've been replaced in America by the president, you're suddenly so kind to this American policy that it's terrible. I do not understand what those in Guantanamo have with Slovenian national interest. You'll find it hard to convince me, but you can try. On the other hand, I simply don't understand what you've done in three years or in the last year to keep our Slovenian culturers and athletes at home, what have you done? Are they not our national interest? Probably not. What have you done to keep our culturers who have been living abroad for decades, and thank God they still think they're Slovenians so they can come here? Nothing, because you prefer culturers from other countries to come to Slovenia. Is that a national interest? Now let me not forget what the national interest is. Isn't that some old story, like, 15 years old? What was Slovenia's national interest, and now this national interest is collapsing into dust. We have the most problems with them. One of them is the bank, the banking system, the good thing that I won't do any damage to our banking system, but they did harm to the economy. They do not service, do not do what is necessary because it was a national interest, even casinos were Slovenian national interest. It's kind of a weird thing. Not to mention what else was a national interest. But that's a little different. You'll find it very difficult to convince me that someone from Guantanamo is a national interest because we have at home, I don't know, 120 thousand unemployed, and another 40,000 students who have enrolled in another university to have status to somehow survive, and you're talking about Guantanamo. You didn't say anything about how much a Guantanamo prisoner would cost, how many scholarships that would be, how many allowances or how many unemployment benefits would be just for one reason, we don't need that if we were full of money, we could talk, but at this point, that's the case. And now, to conclude, you are kicking back with a matter that certainly does not have much support between Slovenian citizens and citizens, I am sure. Apparently, last Sunday, you didn't learn anything that doesn't make sense with your head through the wall. Why is it, good that I won't be ugly to the Prime Minister, who came out through WikiLeaks, that he wanted to take a picture, and now we have to change the law on our noses so that someone likes us? I just don't understand it and you haven't learned anything and I'm sure if this marriage would go to a referendum, it doesn't fall to 80:20, but 90% to 10% or more, because it's even more absurd than those laws, they were some sort of solution, and that's absurd, and that's why I don't understand why you're kicking your head through the wall. Of course, I support such an amendment and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult to avoid reacting to anything else that has been said about this article. Of course, it is just the pouring of oil on fire, discontent and hatred, which so beautifully spreads throughout the country. When we refer to what people like and what people don't like, of course, it's a broad field of debate about what all people in this country are not satisfied with, but forgive, minimum wages, scholarships do not have with the issue that we are currently discussing, and nothing in common is the referendums that we decided on June 5th. It surprises me, however, that a gentleman who likes to boast about his academic career is so deluded when it is also good to look at the public media this Saturday, what are the numbers on those citizens who were given either under Article 13 or, say, under Article 40 of the Citizenship Act. If only from the year when Slovenia became a member of the European Union, I come out, but the fact is that the European Union is built on the free movement of people, ideas, goods and services, that if we therefore oppose this idea, then of course we have great problems because we can no longer justify closing down borders, which were also mentioned earlier, how some can walk freely. But look, in 2004, 3 thousand 338 citizens were allocated, 2005 2 thousand 686, 2006 3 thousand 206, 2007 554, 2008 thousand 771 and 2009, to which the data ranged to a thousand 802. This is said to have halved since Slovenia entered the European Union. But now to Article 13, which speaks of this so-called interest of the state to give a person nationality under particularly favourable conditions, that is to say because it is an interest. Sir, who has now left, of course, does not know anyone who, as a scientist, would be granted citizenship. According to the Ministry of the Interior, only for the scientific field of 70 such, for national reasons 5 000 977, is the most important, but also for sport 112, for culture 184, economic interest 95, information area 64, perhaps what we are interested in, health care 168, education 40. Yes, we live in a world where people come to the country and also from the country, unfortunately, they leave. What we have done to keep them is a question that requires a broad discussion, but what we have done to make people come and we know, especially for health care, that the lack of doctors and medical personnel is such that we are happy with doctors who come to us and meet all the conditions. And we should discuss this, not every human being sees a potential enemy and a potential problem, if that is so: whoever saves one man has saved the world. Think about it, those who with so much aversion talk about some things that you don't even have arguments and actual evidence for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you. Mag. Lah, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that there are three main reasons for amending the law or the new Foreigners Act. And these three are three directives to be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. And the first Directive is Directive 2008/115/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals. The deadline for transposition of this Directive was 24. 12. 2010 and Slovenia have already received a warning from the European Commission that it is delaying the transposition of this Directive into the national legal order. The second reason is Council Directive 2009/50/EC of 25 May 2009 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment. The deadline for transposition of this Directive is 19 June 2011 and time is approaching. Thirdly, Directive 2009/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. The deadline for transposition of this Directive is 20 July 2011. These are the main reasons why it was necessary to approach the amendment of the Aliens Act. These three directives have also led to such major changes in the existing Foreign Act that it was not possible to prepare a novel, but a new Foreign Law had to be drawn up. As regards the duty to reply to Mr Gorenak, as regards the citizens of individual countries accepted by the countries from Guantanamo. Since the 48 accepted individuals from Guantanamo, Britain has accepted 14 of them, of which 9 were UK citizens. Spain has accepted two foreigners who were only Spanish. Germany accepted one which was only born in Germany and was never a German citizen. These are real and real numbers that talk about how individual EU countries and even countries outside the European Union have opted for this, we can say, even a humanitarian gesture. Allow me only at the conclusion of one request and a proposal. The Government proposes that, if the conditions laid down in Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met, the third reading of this Act should be carried out at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? I can only see one hand. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning, I should like to thank Maja Patrati for reading a statistic, which speaks quite eloquently about how and how statistics on the acquisition of citizenship in the years of Slovenia's entry into the EU are falling. Since we have hosted various parliamentarians from European countries days ago, and on such occasions we Members have also received various questions about the relationship we have with foreigners, I think it is sad that the debate in the law, which actually brings a lot of good, has somehow resolved only about how and how we will adopt foreigners from Guantanamo. In fact, the law is much nicer and takes into account many other things. I admit that I was blushing and ashamed, I was very red when my colleagues in Belgium asked me, "So it is possible that you are such a xenophobic country, that you have such restrictive conditions for the entry of foreigners and also for the acquisition of citizenship, because in fact you are somehow at the top of European countries, how and in what way and what are all the procedures for obtaining citizenship?" I think that this law of one thing only makes it easier to actually improve everything that we once said is difficult for all those who come to Slovenia. This is particularly important because it is in our interest that all of these companies, which have their economic organisations stationed, also, not least the desires of interest in educational organisations, that their lecturers, the economists do not have this unpleasant feeling in our country. Therefore, I think that the law, as such, is actually one step forward so that all these matters will be facilitated when they enter a foreign country. It is, however, known that we Slovenians are very hospitable, that we are a very small and warm nation, but that some of our laws, measures, and not least administrative obstacles – to say this in the end – make it difficult and impossible for us to live a friendly life in our warm country. So I think it's just numbers that show how it is. I certainly think that the law, as it is conceived, will allow and mitigate all the consequences that we have seen also through articles written by some who have felt in one way or another because of the various problems they have had at entering the country, and things will be easier. Since we have already talked about culturers, economists and, last but not least, higher education lecturers, I would not forget that there are also athletes, many sports exchanges between countries, and here we see progress, which is also to be welcomed. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. See, we have discussed this quite a bit, and I have already mentioned once that the proposed Aliens Act brings certain new solutions, which we support in the Group of Members, but the law also contains provisions that are unacceptable to us. Of course, I wonder why something controversial must always be tied to a good marriage. We've got a few of those laws that fall at the referendum; we're just setting something up and things aren't going through. This article will also allow prisoners from Guantanamo to reside in Slovenia, which is absolutely controversial. In our country, we already have enough criminals and mob gangs, so we don't have to import terrorists. It is not just the two prisoners who are likely to be under control, but their relatives who have the right to stay at the expense of the already accepted owner. For these arrivals, we do not have information, who they are, and what their past and intentions are. In addition, they are provided with all care and free movement at the expense of the State. Europe, however, is open to terrorists and is quite interesting to them. If it were innocent people, as they say, it would be right for them to return to their country, which they would gladly accept as heroes. But when it comes to sold souls, they can't go back to their own country, which is logical, but it just adds to the fact that it's just terrorists. However, national interest is nothing more than the import of prisoners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 53. We are moving on to Article 128 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to paragraph 151 and the amendment of the coalition to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I therefore conclude the debate in full, and we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 51st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY – ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENISH PRESSION AGENCY LEGISLATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Mrs Širce is not, nor is the Secretary of State, yes, you are here. [[...]] Here you go. You have the word on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me first of all two external circumstances before I come to the matter itself; first of all, the Minister of Culture, who will join us as soon as the Government's meeting is over and of course participated in the debate, and the second external circumstance is symbolic of the fact that in the materials in which the amendments to today's debate are presented, at the summit, the sign for the National Assembly, and below Triglav for the 20th anniversary of independence. The Slovenian Press Agency is also twenty years old, and it is only this year that it receives its first legal status. This is my starting point in a short presentation, that something that has so far been regulated solely by the creation act and therefore brings with it a number of conundrums, for the first time in law. We regulate the law in such a way that, of course, we recognize a limited company as one whose sole founder and associate is the Republic of Slovenia, and hence the fundamental obligations of the founders of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure institutional autonomy, editorial independence and adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service. In the introduction of the law you have seen the basic principles, allow me to deal with the principle of independence a little bit more because it contains two key features of this law. One independence is financial and another is independence, which is a condition for journalists to do their jobs autonomously. During the Committee's debate, we discussed this the most because it was necessary to show how to find the right measure between what the state must and what should be done so as not to violate the State aid rules and why it must be done, because public service is the one providing citizens with basic information. The second part of independence in addition to financial independence is the issue of governance and governance. This debate by the Member and Members in this National Assembly is all the more so because the drafter of the law is in the composition of the Supervisory Council, which is a novelty that was not previously in the Act of Establishment, and in the way we come to this world, recognises the guarantee of independence. You know that we have discussed this a lot on the committee, that our proposal for a two-thirds majority is just that the National Assembly would be able to unify itself around experts from an information, legal, financial, media point of view to this agency, the Slovenian Press Agency, to ensure independence. Of course, in addition to the role of the Supervisory Board, the role of the director and the responsible editor is described very clearly, which is an important element in the autonomy of the journalistic work. Allow me only a brief look at a large number of amendments, for which I hope, after discussion on the Committee, that, taking into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we can in fact take them into account as nomadic and that there were no major systemic challenges in taking this into account. We will be pleased to hear from our colleagues and with the Minister, when he joins us in the debate, to respond to any possible questions or to provide further clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Majdi Patrati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr State Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Press Agency Act was submitted on a regular basis by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth discussed the draft law at its 30th meeting on 25 May 2011. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments to the eighteenth articles, the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill and had concerns about the composition of the Supervisory Board, which will be composed of five members, 4 of whom will elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The oral opinion was presented by Dr Zoltan Jan. The amendments were tabled by three coalition groups, 17 of them on the request of the Legislative and Legal Service – not only by articles 18 and 19 – and the amendment to Article 24 was additional. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled three amendments to Articles 4, 5 and 12. In the supplementary explanation, Dr Stojan Pelko’s representative introduced a number of views that explained what the law regulated. It regulates the financing and definition of public service activities carried out by STA in accordance with European Union rules on transparency of public service financing and in accordance with State aid rules. The scope, content and procedure of the public service and the content of the market activity are defined and the existing form of the company is maintained. The strong role of the National Assembly in appointing members of the Supervisory Board is envisaged, ensuring the independence and stability of the STA and strengthening the autonomy of the activities of journalists and editors with provisions governing the appointment of responsible and other editors. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that most of the comments made had been taken into account in the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups. However, it drew attention to the question of the merits of the provision of public service by the STA and the two-thirds majority of the Members present, which would be necessary when appointing the members of the Supervisory Board. The Director of STA Bojan Veselinović presented the existence and functioning of the STA. The STA was created 20 years ago on the basis of a private initiative. To this day, it has operated in the ownership of the state. Funding is a form of public-private financing. Part of the Agency's funds are derived from the state budget. Finally, he supported the proposed law and warned that when the proposed amendment of the SDS Group was adopted to Article 4 of the STA, it would become fully available to the public, which would be bad for many online media, and higher costs for the Agency itself. In the course of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee discussed the fourth article and the two amendments. Let me say that none of these two amendments were then adopted. As a result, the amendment to Article 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party has become irrelevant. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12 has not been adopted either. However, the Committee also adopted the amendment to Article 22. All the amendments adopted are included in the updated text of the proposed law and are available for decision at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Press Agency was established in June 1991, this year celebrating its 20th anniversary. On this occasion, she will receive a marriage for her anniversary, which will regulate her status and her functioning. The STA is 100 % state-owned and is allocated by the State to its operation and to the exercise of its mission as a public asset under the annual contract. Currently, only the act establishing the STA is the legal basis governing the position and functioning of the Slovenian Press Agency. However, it does not contain any rules governing the transparency of the financing of this state-owned company. The latter is required by the Commission Directive on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings and on financial transparency within certain undertakings. We must conclude that the current SO regime is formally inappropriate and therefore a necessary step forward. We will do so by adopting the Slovenian Press Agency Act. The law clearly defines the scope and content of the public service, the implementation regime and ensures that the content of the public service of the press agency is free and available to all users under the same conditions. On the other hand, the law also defines the possibility of the Agency operating on a market basis, which is already under way, while the law does not extend the range of these market activities charged by the Agency to users. The principle of financial transparency ensures transparency in the functioning and operation of the Agency. The purpose of public spending and the prevention of cross-subsidisation of market activities from public funds will be checked and State aid rules will also be satisfied. In view of the existing legal organisation in terms of the economic entity of this company, nothing changes: the STA remains in the establishment and ownership of the State and organised as a limited liability company, which is subject to the rules of the Company Act in addition to the Act. According to current practice, when the supervisory function was exercised by the government, the supervisory board of the company is a novelty. Its five-member composition will be responsible for overseeing the operation and functioning of the Agency, with members representing key areas of expertise such as financial, media, legal and information. They will also appoint their representatives as Agency staff. Notwithstanding the fact that four members will be proposed and appointed by the Government and the National Assembly, it should be added that they will be independent and independent in their work, as enshrined in the law. Among other tasks, the Supervisory Board will also have the task of appointing a company director, including the government so far. All of this, including the prescribed 2/3 majority of the Members present to confirm the Supervisory Council, is, in our opinion, a positive step towards moving away from political recruitment, as the Supervisory Council will have to receive wider support from the positions and opposition Members. Since the public information activity carried out by the press agency is of paramount importance for each society, its functioning must be regulated by law. In doing so, it is essential that the independence and autonomy of editors and journalists be ensured - that they can provide users with accurate and integrated information, the press agency must act in accordance with the principles of independence, impartiality and professionalism. Transparency and stable funding are also a prerequisite for editorial and management independence. All these provisions of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Press Agency provide and we support the bill in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the guests. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on the Slovenian Press Agency seeks to regulate and determine the status and functioning of the Slovenian Press Agency as a media organisation whose primary task is to prepare and systematically edit and process information and to provide information to subscribers or users. The law also regulates the financing of such public service activities in accordance with European Union rules on transparency of public service financing. Furthermore, the proposal for a law also defines the scope, content and method of carrying out the activities of the Agency. However, in any event, it would be possible to discuss the manner or content of the article governing the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, with a view to ensuring, in the first place, the independence of the Slovenian Press Agency and the autonomy of its journalists and editors. However, for the appointment of the Supervisory Board, a two-thirds majority of the Members present is a rather unusual provision which deviates from normal similar cases in Slovenian legislation. The question certainly remains whether this is really the only way to ensure the independence and independence of the Slovenian Press Agency and its journalists and editors. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is possible to ensure the required expertise of the members and the independence of the members of the Supervisory Board even if they were elected or named by an absolute majority of the votes of all Members, since this would certainly represent sufficient, credible support for the members of the National Assembly. At the same time, any complications and difficulties in appointing members of the Supervisory Board should not be forgotten in the event of the required two-thirds majority vote and, of course, any consequences arising from such a requirement or provision. Finally, we all know how difficult it is in practice in the National Assembly to reach any agreement or agreement with a two-thirds majority. It is quite unusual to compare the importance of such appointment conditions, which can literally be compared to the conditions for amending, for example, the provisions of the Slovenian Constitution, which, of course, cannot be compared in any way after difficulty. However, we fully agree with the condition that independent experts in the field of media activity, law, information technology and so on take up such a function. We also have legitimate concerns in the Slovenian National Party as regards the paying of the news and the Agency's contributions. For example, questions related to decision-making, decision-making powers on what will be free of charge and what will be paid. In the case of an agency established on behalf of the State and the State and its citizens, the proposal was supported to ensure that the Agency's contributions and news were free of charge, since, inter alia, there may be a risk that the capital interests would give rise to the basic purpose and purpose of the Agency's activities. Unfortunately, such a proposal has not gone through and it is a shame, as has been the case many times, that it has already rejected meaningful proposals from the opposition. Unfortunately, the consequences of such rejection are felt in the end by all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we will decide on the support for the proposed law after the discussion and adoption or non-adoption of some of the proposed amendments, following today's consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to the co-workers and, of course, also to the Minister and her co-workers! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the law before us today is viewed with favor, for one of the key purposes of the law is to certainly strengthen the autonomy of journalists, editors, because it is governed by provisions governing the appointment of responsible and other editors. Otherwise, it is a practice to regulate the functioning of the Slovenian Press Agency, which will comply with European rules on transparency in the financing of public service activities or with State aid rules. The law also provides a strong role for the National Assembly in appointing members of the Supervisory Board, taking into account a broader or relative two-thirds majority. In the internal organisation, however, the law continues to play a strong role in the supervisory board as a representative of the public and the profession. The law also adapts the status of the Slovenian Press Agency to the fact that it carries out a public service by incorporating those public-law restrictions and the rules necessary to carry out the public service. When modifying the rules of legislation governing the company on the one hand, thereby allowing the STA to continue operating within the framework of the rules of European and domestic law on the other. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would also like to stress that in the framework of the public service, the STA must also provide content on the functioning of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, content on the functioning of the Roma ethnic community, content for members of other national and ethnic communities in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as content for Slovenian national minorities - our minorities in neighbouring countries, as well as for Slovenian expatriates and residents, and in the context of the daily English service also the content for foreign public in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also specified in particular that the content of the public service STA is free and under the same conditions available to all potential users, it seems to us that this solution is the right and appropriate. It is also of great importance that the principle of financial transparency, which is governed by Article 6 in the performance of the public service, is respected, ensuring transparency in the functioning and financing of the public service. It is also important that the law restricts the role of the founder, that is, the State, to the role of a strategic guide, while leaving those key operational tasks to the management of the company. In our view, the procedure for appointing the responsible editor is also fully regulated. This shall be appointed by the Director on the basis of a tender issued and after prior consultation with the members of the Management Board. However, in the event that the Director intends to appoint a candidate for the responsible editor for whom the majority of the members of the Management Board do not have a positive opinion, he proposes to appoint such a candidate to the Supervisory Board. In this case, however, the organisation also has the right to propose to the supervisory board of its candidate for responsible editor, taking into account, of course, the situation obtained in the invitation to tender, so that the candidate of this group of people who have applied for such a tender must be. The method of financing the STA is regulated in accordance with the requirements of European Community law and, of course, is careful to monitor state aid and EU rules on transparency of public service financing. In particular, it is defined and it is stressed that the amount of compensation received annually under a contract with the State of Slovenia for the performance of this service must not exceed the total costs incurred in the performance of the public service on the basis of the annual business plan of the Slovenian Press Agency. With regard to the operation and operation of the Slovenian Press Agency, a thorough audit carried out every year by an authorised auditor or audit service shall be carried out, on the basis of which the usefulness and regularity of operations shall be determined. The STA must also send an annual business report and an audit report on the use of funds to the National Assembly. On the basis of the foregoing, we consider that this is the appropriate basis for further consideration and reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you. There is no representative of unrelated Members, so Mrs Silva Montenegro will now be on her turn to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Minister, Secretary of State and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have always supported those changes in media laws that we believe are introducing mechanisms to ensure freedom of journalistic work in this area. The definition of editorial policy through the political will and the lack of understanding of freedom of public expression represents a kind of position of journalism with us, with which we have been falling on international media freedom for years. One of the fields of past attempts to manipulate political elites with media content was also the Slovenian Press Agency. The reasons for this are the ability to seek not only in the absence of a sense of creating a cultured plural media dialogue by the political majority but also in the subordination of the functioning of this institution. The activities and relations between the various bodies of the Agency have been defined in the creation act, leaving the rulings relatively free to appoint the Director of the Agency and, as a result, through it, appointing the responsible editor. A reflection of the regime where the government has the power to call off the Director of the State at any time and of its own volition has proved to be inappropriate and harmful in reality for the autonomy of journalists and editors, and therefore the legal arrangements for the operation of this valuable press service seem to be logical and good. Although, according to our assessment, the legal text does not constitute a radical break with the 20-year operation of the Slovenian Press Agency as defined in the founding act, which makes it possible for the Agency to be stable in carrying out its tasks. In particular, it is worth noting that the status and scope of public service and market activities are not practically changing, but are more clearly defined at the legal level. More important are changes based on areas of the provision of an autonomous environment and the allocation of management and control roles. The most important principle is the principle of independence, which is the principle most established in this law, irrespective of the principle of independence in financial and management work. In the Group of Social Democrats, we particularly welcome the allocation of greater importance to the editorate in the appointment of the responsible editor. This, in cases of disagreement with the proposed candidate, will have an opportunity for the Supervisory Board to propose its candidate. Compared to the provisions of the founding act, the law also defines the powers of individual authorities more clearly, so that the supervisory function of the Government moves to the Supervisory Board, which will be composed of a representative of workers and four experts, who will be appointed by a two-thirds majority vote in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The proposed majority, however, is quite unusual. But let us remember that in the course of the discussion of another media law for members elected to the Authority by the National Assembly, this is what foreign experts have proposed. This is the only way to avoid the interests of the ruling elite in the media. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Press Agency, which has been working successfully for 20 years, according to the Group of Social Democrats, provides an appropriate framework for the operation of the State. Only its difficult implementation will show whether the mechanisms for ensuring media autonomy, which is the most important, which has obviously been lacking so far, will work. We will therefore support the bill in order to improve the position of journalists in the STA and in other journalists' houses as well, to make information clearer, more qualitative and to develop as such for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. Your Honor! The legislative and legal service to which I will refer here will not be said that the opposition is always something which denies what the coalition is proposing, and it already notes that the law on the Slovenian Press Agency is in fact unnecessary. STA is already providing and providing users with such services and the question is whether the definition of such services as the exercise of a public service is justified. They write this themselves and add that in the National Assembly there will soon be a proposal for a law on the implementation of activities of general importance, which will fully regulate the field and the way in which activities are carried out of general importance, under which services such as the Slovenian Press Agency will fall. So much for a start. However, in the debate at the Committee in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed some amendments which were not adopted, of course. Therefore, in our vote, we will act as you do, honourable coalition Members, with our amendments, which are essential to the minimum of what this law will be able to "drink water". I'll tell you what it is. Of course, first of all, what is most interesting, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service – that the supervisory board proposed must be confirmed in Parliament, with a two-thirds majority. This is extremely unusual for an institution, as if it were to elect constitutional judges, even worse than to talk about constitutional changes, which is something of a constitutional change. This is the first thing that is impossible, and it will never really "drink water" or be realized and will not be able to reach a unified opinion, so that follows that the STA will continue to remain in knowledge, which is already there. Another important thing is that it has not been accepted and is considered a thin line between what the public service does and what is then a market activity, which is marketed and served. We wanted the products of the public service, which is also a budget user, to be free, and we proposed this, of course, which was rejected. We still think it's a huge damage. This amendment could not be re tabled, and this raises doubts as to whether it makes sense to adopt such a law. The last thing that is important is to extend the professional orientation of the members of the Supervisory Board, which is now precisely defined, narrowly defined and highlighted by the State Council in its criticism. In short, all these shortcomings are the remainder of what needs to be corrected so that this law is at least about what it is intended for and for whom it would serve. Of course, there is no point in losing words about the autonomy of journalism, which we can all agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State and co-workers of the Ministry of Culture, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We all agree that the Agency's information activities carried out by the Slovenian Press Agency are of paramount importance for each company, so its operation must be regulated by law, as it has been regulated by a creation act so far. What we need to ensure by law is autonomy, conditions for editorial independence and adequate funding. The law retains the existing form of the status-law organisation STA as an economic company and the main objectives are to strengthen the autonomy and independence of the STA, which must provide a service for society as a whole. This means that the STA must ensure the autonomy of editors, the autonomy of journalists and the autonomy of other authors in creating programming content, in accordance with the content design and professional rules, criteria and standards. And what will be the main debate today? We have just heard something, and we have expected such concerns, which will probably spark an interesting debate about the law that we need and we all really want it. Some of the conclusions and executions of part of the opposition are likely to go in the direction of, in particular, the different solutions identified by the STA authorities, namely the Supervisory Board, which is the main representative and supervisory authority, representing the public and the profession, and the Director who manages and manages the STA. This is what we expected, and this was also expected by the bill's proponents, who were trying to resolve all these issues in the best possible way. Although the SO public service is clearly defined in the law and is separate from market activities in accordance with European and domestic legislation, and although transparent and stable funding is thus provided, which is also the basis for editorial and management independence, we have been prepared for these indications. In the opposition, they see even some hidden purposes in these statutes of law, despite the fact that there is a great deal of emphasis on the expertise of this body in the composition of the Supervisory Council. Therefore, experts in the field of media, law, economics or finance and information experts are envisaged among the members, so we went and went to expand the professional profile of supervisors. And since a strong role has been established for the National Assembly to appoint members of the Supervisory Council, which, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a two-thirds majority, and this is the case, we will also come across a proposal that would determine this and weaken this safeguard of autonomy, i.e. by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, elect four members of the five-member Supervisory Board, which is an important safeguard against politicising the choice of the Supervisory Board itself. We cannot share this fear because we do not agree on the possibility that some in the National Assembly could only prove their right, prevent the creation of organs and the operation of such important agencies as the STA. In the Parliamentary Group, we really believe that the law governs the functioning of the Slovenian Press Agency properly, thus achieving a more lasting solution for our press agency and it is also an appropriate gift at its 20th anniversary. We will truly support the marriage in the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The position of the Slovenian People's Party to the Slovenian Press Agency Act is as follows. The June celebration of the 20th birthday of the Republic of Slovenia also coincides with the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Slovenian Press Agency, which began only a few days before the adoption of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia or the declaration of our independence. The Slovenian Press Agency was designed and still acts as a general service of the Slovenian and foreign interested public, providing a public service to provide information on events in Slovenia and around the world. However, the Slovenian Press Agency must adequately adapt to the offer of specialised content, as the mere supply of general content does not ensure its survival. The Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Press Agency is intended to ensure greater independence and independence of the Slovenian Press Agency, in particular the independence of editors, journalists and other software content creators. The law should also regulate the information, financing and definition of public service activities in a way that complies with European Union rules on transparency of financing and state aid rules. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we assess the need for the Slovenian Press Agency to ensure stability and complete independence, which will allow it to carry out its activities impartially and welcome the intention of the proposer to achieve this by means of a proposal for this Act. With regard to the relative two-thirds majority required by the law to elect four members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, we estimate in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party that the intention of the proposer is correct and well-intentioned in order to ensure that there is as much consensus as possible and to overcome the predominance of one policy option regarding the appointment of experts to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. On the other hand, the issue of derogation from similar cases in our legislation arises, as the relative two-thirds majority of the votes are required to adopt more important laws, such as governing the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly, establishing provinces, appointing judges of the Constitutional Court and others, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. There is also the possibility of long-term procedures for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. On the other hand, such arrangements would overcome divisions and really find such experts who enjoy support, both in professional circles and in the vast majority of the members of the National Assembly. Well, we'd all be forced to act constructively, which has been an exception to the rule lately. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed Law on the Slovenian Press Agency preserves professionalism and improves the independence of the Slovenian Press Agency, as well as clearly regulates the powers of the Supervisory Board, the Director and the Responsible Editor. Therefore, we will not oppose the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Amendments to the draft law to two articles were tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13 June 2011. First of all, I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Our amendment wants to extend the professions that are proposed to be members of the Supervisory Board, because in our view this set is limited, though not irregular, but limited, and we will find it difficult to get exactly such experts as we would then even receive with a two-thirds majority. So it is also clear to any normal person who knows how the saints work that you do not need to have an active, capable and effective member of the world who would be exactly one area, but this selection can be very wide, especially when it comes to doctoral candidates who master a wide range of fields, not only those for whom they have written their careers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Article 12 states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appoints 4 members of the Supervisory Board, one member of the media experts, one member of the economic financial experts, one member of the legal experts and one member of the IT experts. I don't remember the law that would be passed here to specifically prescribe an education for each member. I don't remember that, but I'm sure it didn't work out there. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which is more common, more normal, because if I go in kind: a member of the supervisory board of media professionals. I am asking here the question of who will now determine who is the media expert or is this learning direction, then I would ask you to answer me which college is this teaching course, that such a member will be a media expert. Because I can't explain myself otherwise, or I don't know which one, but I don't know who will now be the commission that will determine that he's an expert in the media. We can also see several times in the media that someone is presented as an expert in the media, but I wonder on what basis was he defined as such? If it's, like, I don't know, an electrical technician, he has a PhD in electrical engineering, he's dealing with this thing and it's a little easier. This is so for comparison, which is why I ask myself, is this expert in the media according to the learning direction that he got in college, whether this is based on some broader decision by a commission or something else. [[...]] Well, the economic financial expert understands a little bit more that he studied the economy, or is it another way of thinking that he's going to be, on the basis of completing an economic college, one of the directions, but here again, the question is, what if he finishes an economic college, I don't know, is he going to be able to apply? So we don't find out with horror that there's something wrong here. Well, with legal experts, it's probably a little easier there, because it's a little easier. That is why I do not think that such a restriction, I do not know if it is right, in my opinion and in the opinion of our party, this is not because, in any case, if it is the members of an authority, the supervisory authority, then it is likely that some more knowledge is needed, but I am not sure that it is necessary to prescribe for everyone that it should be from another area. In the final phase, if they are able to monitor the body well, everyone in the same area can, at the final stage, be able to work in different or possibly different areas so far. So that I'm really deeply disturbed by this strict prescription of every expert, because I'm sure it would be a kind of alien. I understand that with these four, maybe in two areas, maybe a little advantage or whatever, I would think. But that each one of them is one of his own areas - and besides me, so I'm going to let myself learn, it's not clear how we're going to determine who is now an expert in a particular field. And that seems to me a very difficult matter, and that is why I support the amendment that we tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Minister for Culture, Mrs Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Initially, I will not say thanks for the constructive and interesting comments and assessments of the prepared law, which will end the long journey, but I will not say 20 years, but the long way to looking for legal honours not only in life and not only in practice, but also in law. So that you would not answer and not at this point, when we are considering the amendment, ask about those possibly missing, as you say, the possibility that it would be good if in this country, as much as a hundred percent of the funding of the Slovenian Press Agency, and therefore look for a million and a half or more resources and in some way make all the small media more inert, because the news of the Slovenian Press Agency would be used. But when asked about the amendment to Article 12, I can answer the questions raised by both SDS Members. This is said to be nowhere in the law when the supervisory authority, whether it is the supervisory board or the programming board, determines the approximate profile of the members of that body, is not true. Because, already in our roof legislation, this is said in the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, we tend to set up a profile of those who are represented in the creation of acts that are sub-laws of an institution or agency or fund, because of the fact that they know about that activity. For example, it would be a little difficult for an Opera Supervisor to be an expert in beekeeping, knowing that we need completely different knowledge there and that it is good that these people are paying attention to other knowledge and that in this sense they can also facilitate the work of management because they can justify the questions raised there. But you need to know, well, it's no big deal if it's a broader composition, like sociologists, sociologists, etc., but they're not excluded within media professionals, informatics, economic and legal services. Economic and legal knowledge is, in this case, essential and credible, so much benefit in other institutions where they are, because it is one of the most important supervisory functions of individual authorities when they are involved in supervision and business and also then in some way make it easier for the founders themselves either to the municipalities or to the state that there has already been some verification of business, say, but, as you will see in Article 15, the powers of the Supervisory Board are very pragmatic, since the adoption of the annual business plan, company reports, accounting standards, the appointment of an authorised auditor. To justify, say, legal, economic, financial education and the knowledge of individual members. So I don't see any major problems, even though we've been working on this law, whether we leave it open, but it didn't work out, as it did many times, when everything was open and when the mathematical societies were present, or. Their representatives in fairly humanistic and culturally structured institutions, so I think that the proposed form is good, better and that it is still considered to be recognised, members of the Committee on Culture have been made aware of this, as recognised by the European Press Agency Association. The European Press Agency Association has responded very positively to our proposal for an emerging law, or to what you will also deal with today by voting tonight, in this sense, and at last the vague relations between the state and the agency, which have been many times bitter or a sweet object of many wishes, will be settled. Finally, it will be because the Supervisory Committee will be [[...]] So, what do they say? It's interesting what they say. Representatives of the European Press Agency Association say that the creation of a supervisory board as a kind of interface between each government and agency as a media house is a solution that guarantees the autonomy of the Agency. If we go further to the question that you have touched on in Article 12 or with the amendment to Article 12, it is further said that the colourfulness of the Supervisory Board, which is provided by the prescribed areas to come from, on the one hand, individual members of this Supervisory Authority, ensures the coverage of all those areas of expertise that the Agency’s supervisory authority must cover and, on the other hand, prevents the Supervisory Board from being just a front and not a guarantee of media autonomy and its professional and business-related activities. We want the dilemmas to be resolved and to trust this carefully verified option also with comparisons of other agencies, where experts are allowed to operate and operate by the Slovenian Press Agency from the point of view of the profession, and that this broad range to which you appeal would not bring more bad than good solutions. However, it is of great importance and I think that what is most important is not so much as this supervisory board is composed or in what way it is represented, as it is that a body that is truly, I repeat, the interface between each authority and the Slovenian Press Agency is not used or used, and that the Slovenian Press Agency is provided with the autonomy that was, as I say, the first to lead in the drafting of this law, in the drafting of this law and in ensuring that the Slovenian Press Agency receives a proper legal and appropriate legal mode of action after 20 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I got the answer, but of course I'm not entirely happy with him. I will say so, given that the National Assembly will accept or approve those four candidates on a proposal from the government, it is said that we will be familiar with it and will be very careful how these experts will be designated, especially that first media expert. As regards the evaluation of the European institutions, I couldn't help but say no, so I actually did. I would like to give two examples of how the European institutions can possibly assess. Until last year, I have never seen European financial institutions have any comment on the situation of Greek finances, neither Irish nor Portuguese, and we see what happened. Thus, the assessment of a European institution is as it is. Greece is a typical example in the financial field. If I went back to the media field, I would say that European media experts had great comments on the state of the media in Slovenia. This was in 2007 or 2008, correct me when that famous petition of 571 journalists against censorship announced that there are catastrophic media situations in Slovenia. And then that president came in and he was doing something about Slovenia and he had some comments, but he didn't meet with everyone. Today, I don't know, three, four years later, when editors in Slovenia are swept away like garbage, these European institutions have no comments. So far, I haven't seen anyone come to visit and ask why this editor was replaced, why they were replaced, why I haven't noticed anything like this. So these European experts are "just so", under the terms, and unfortunately, I don't give much. So I will monitor with great care before I press for those four experts who are scheduled to be confirmed here. And with great interest, I will monitor who is appointed media expert. So I asked if it would be on the basis of any curriculum that's in college, because of me, whether it would be any other assessment, that it would be an expert in the media, and this is supposed to be some subjective assessment, because I'm in the technical field and it's for me if it's 5 meters 75, then I know it's 5 meters 75. But if we're assessing someone for an artistic impression with 9.50 points, I know that there can be one way or another, it's not exactly true, so this kind of thing kind of slipped into my eyes and that's why my question is in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see no further interest in the debate. I conclude the debate on Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I am moving on to Article 13 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Mr. Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much. This is the famous 13th Article, which provides for the appointment of supervisors with a two-thirds majority of the Members present, which departs from the regulation of similar cases in our legislation, which has already been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. This is a vast majority and such a limitation would, in our view, make it difficult to appoint members of the Governing Council, so that many or all of it would not happen and consequently what would happen. Would they have stayed the same as the V.D., or how would they have solved that problem? I cannot imagine that in this and the future National Assembly we would reach a two-thirds majority of about four profiled supervisors, who are also appointed professionally, because this is not possible if, by the way, I say vividly, two-thirds of them could decide more about author Boris Pahor, and perhaps even about Frances Bucar, and then the matter is over. How are you going to get the other experts? You won't. And that's why the marriage won't live, and that's why it won't live, and it'll stay dead, or it'll remain status quo, and what it is now. That's why this amendment is important. We are not the only ones who have been alerted to him, and we are not the only ones who have warned us that he is clearly departing from similar institutions, such as RTV, here is sufficient to appoint a member of the Programme Council with an absolute majority of the votes of Members. So that comparability is in place and we think that without this amendment of this Article, the law simply does not drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I've got two reports. Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes, please. Then Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you. One of the legal obligations enjoyed by the National Assembly when it adopts laws is also the feasibility of what it accepts and, in a given case, this condition is certainly not fulfilled. This is a condition of a two-thirds majority in such a case that is not duly substantiated, is not justified, at least not by some convincing arguments and is likely to have a purely different objective as declared. Instead of a high level of consensus, the outcome of this type will be very likely to determine a high degree of delay and extension of functions for those who are there, indefinitely. I must say that I do not agree in any way with my colleague Alexander Zorn, who has just spoken, that perhaps agreement could be reached on Mr Boris Pahor, who is extremely respectable in the international space as well, or on Mr Frances Bucar, because he would remind you of what this looked like when it came to the issue of the Slovenian sea. At a time when the three prominent people who devoted their lives to fighting for Slovenia found themselves at a different starting point than the ruling coalition had, they were immediately announced with the cinnamon "Alzheimer Trio", this is an hateful speech for those who do not deal with the law so much, but we could then read about "Alzheimer Triu", listening for quite some time, until the moment, of course, the ruling coalition was in a hopeless fight for blood wrestling, to extend its mandates or fight for chairs "save" the idea that Slovenia should be led by some wise men and those same people were suddenly declared excellent examples of wise men who would be worthy of listening to them and should at all be heard in any decision. Very interesting logic, and this same story we found from exactly the same sources, in exactly the same media as the previous one, that it was "Alzheimer Trio". In short, some political goals are being pursued at a given time and, of course, this is not going anywhere. There should always be the same criteria, there should always be the same criteria for all, and for those who have actually done much positive, good for Slovenia, a high degree of consensus should apply. Unfortunately, it is precisely this case that we can prove, because it is completely fresh, it is only less than a year old, that, of course, in at least one part of the political spectrum, what we usually call a transitory, this kind of willingness. And if there is no such willingness, if some are also defamed by hate speech, depending on the daily policy objectives, then it is clear that such a determination is predestined to non-reality. Of course, non-fulfilment leads somewhere else, from those stated objectives that are now written in the explanation of the proposed STA law. This means, of course, that because in practice we could not reach full-fledged bodies, very probably very long not or never at all, we could extend the mandate to one and the same, we could just enter the names and surnames of those who are there, with Mr Veselinovic at the head and then have the status quo for an indefinite time. Any change in the law that would lead to greater operationalism, the actual feasibility of the law, and thus also meet the constitutional criteria that the text is now proposed, even after the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, obviously does not meet, and it would probably be determined that it is an attempt at political interference and what I know what else. This is so if daily political talk is adapted to the daily political objectives of the ruling coalition. What we want to point out is that, for the first time, laws must be feasible, for the second time: that they must be consistent to the greatest extent possible with constitutional standards and the other legal order of the State of Slovenia, and that our proposed amendment fully meets and, of course, when it comes to finding consensus on specific people, let them always and in any case for the same people under the same conditions, not to adapt: when you like them politically, it is wise, when you do not like them politically, but a member of "Alzheimer tria". This should end, if not with early elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have had many human resources votes in the National Assembly, not least in every session. And we have a lot of experience. The two-thirds majority of winning is, I don't know whether to say'mission impossible' or otherwise, we mostly know what it looks like in constitutional changes, because there is a need for a two-thirds majority, in this area we have not done much in this area and we have been far from those two-thirds. So, for that reason, our concerns, if I may say, are also afraid that this will not happen and, of course, what this means, then that science will remain and all that comes out of it. For the absolute majority, what we are proposing with our amendment, and, of course, I support it, it takes quite some effort. It's not that easy to get an absolute majority. It's not that simple. The two-thirds majority – and I don't understand where the proposal for this idea, if others, such as similar institutions in this media area, only needs an absolute majority, and that is why we have also tabled this amendment to make somehow the same criteria for all institutions in this area, if I call the institution when I compare it to RTV, in this context. However, as far as that comment, which had already been mentioned, respected colleague Zorn, perhaps the two-thirds majority could only get Boris Pahor, and I also have a certain thought, because, as I recall, he was, it was some idea to get the name of an honorary citizen in Ljubljana, but he didn't even get the general majority, he couldn't get it, but there were no ideological questions and nothing. That's what they say. It's a completely non-ideological thing, but the thing fell through, it didn't go through. And we in the National Assembly, when we know that we are a political body like the Ljubljana Congregation, not least the organs of the Ljubljana Congregation, we want a two-thirds majority. I am afraid that we will never achieve this and that is why I support this amendment of ours, which slightly reduces these really high fences that need to be skipped to an absolute majority, even this is a high criterion. And if we reach this criterion of the absolute majority, I think we will confirm the names of this body with a very large degree of credibility, so that I support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca, Minister for Culture, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u92	Dear gentlemen, do we understand what kind of majority this is? Not a two-thirds absolute majority. Two-thirds majority present. You didn't say that, but you were talking about a very, very difficult height. True, they are not always full of these rooms, but there is no doubt about the culture of decision-making. High fences, as you say, are strict in the two-thirds majority of those present for the supervisory authority of the Slovenian Press Agency proposed by experts. The ones we worked with in this marriage. We did not insist on this, in fact we have more than practice experts, that sometimes it is necessary to make an effort to obtain either for the presence or even for the consent of the decision-making process. Here were the experts with whom we worked, unforgivable and said, this is an important protector, this is the way the only authority between the government and between the Slovenian Press Agency, which we now do not have, because now you are coming to the government, you say this director we want or not now, yesterday and it gets there. Now this interface with the Supervisory Board, which also deals with other reviews, is not just a determination of who will be in the lead of the STA. In short, they set up high fences and rigidity, and we did not want to oppose any thinking that went in this direction that was appropriate. I also think that the proposal you tabled as an amendment to Article 13 is not so easy to accept and realize if we live in the belief that something cannot happen because people are judged in a different way. And that's not possible right now. The simple majority would be the easiest, but I would insist and I would like to respect the will of those who helped us write the law and those who put the basics in place did not want to take away primate from some guarantee of independence. In fact, they did not want this political valet to be the only and most important criteria for appointing members of the world. If you think within this debate, which has now been exposed, and on the committee very, very much exposed, that the expected two-thirds majority of those present can be blocked, if you feel that you, for example, would block the appointment in the vote, then it seems inappropriate to leave such a form. I emphasize, it's culture. This is a culture of behavior, this is an important message of why the government has decided that these guards are high, and what it wants to do with this message and what it wants to call this body. If you think this is too high, then the standards can be lowered. You have your powers at your disposal today. We have also considered, as I say, that the difference between the majority of the votes of all Members, that is to say 46 votes, compared to two-thirds of those present, can, if anyone wants, constitute a problem in one case or another. But the culture of decision-making should, however, go in the direction of not having these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u93	I've got two reports. Anybody else want some? Anyone who wants to discuss it should sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you. I warned earlier about the problem of such provisions, but we do not seem to understand. Even two thirds of those present against the absolute two thirds are not as big a difference as anyone might now conclude. If all Members and Members were to be 100 per cent disciplined, there would be no difference at all. For if we are all present, then the exact same majority is the same, the same majority of the votes are needed if the two-thirds majority are present, or for the two-thirds majority of all Members and Members. But as I say, that's less important. I've given you a more important reason than that. This is a misunderstanding that the same criteria for all must always apply, without adapting to the current political objectives. Because, otherwise, what we witnessed last year by the current rulings, like when Mr Boris Pahor and Mr Bučar were on the side of the ruling coalition, they were wise when they were not, and they were tried in "Alzheimer Trio" and they were victims of the hate speech. This, in advance, almost prevents the search for consensus. And let me give you another additional reason that's even fresher. Why don't we believe that we can achieve a broader consensus with the current coalition when we're in the workforce? Let us take a look at the current cultural workforce of the current government. Only two, three weeks have passed when, during the same period of the current ruling coalition, it pushed into the background of a respected culturer, the winner of many international and domestic most prestigious awards and recognitions for his creative work, Mr Iva Ban, and pushed Urška Čepin to the forefront. So go Ivo Ban, come to the front of Urska Čepin! This is the human resources policy of the current rulings. I'm sorry. We'll never agree to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. When it came to culture, the culture of voting, presence and the like. Madam Minister, I would stand here in your shoes. What happens if, let's say, the problem with this two-thirds majority you insist on, and I think it'll probably go through if it falls. You explained to us that this was suggested by the experts. Who do you think they're gonna ask? What do you think the matter doesn't go through or you or the experts? I'm afraid they'll ask you. I don't think those who ask you that question will be most pleased if you say, yes, listen, they're experts, what you've explained to us, that I won't say again. The experts advised us that this would be best, and they will prove to you that the two-thirds majority are practically nowhere to be found, that this will be more than a fugitive. You won't be able to apologize to the experts, because the last one is yours, you have that last word. They'll ask you, after all. So in this context, I look at it. There will be no excuses for some experts, not least because in Slovenia, every matter is done by experts. Sometimes they're experts, but sometimes they're experts, because that suits us, and you take that as a good question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u98	I myself said that there were two options that you opened up here and that we were only looking for recommendations from experts who wanted to have a high threshold for confirming such a body. If you think so, because they won't ask me, but in the end, you'll decide in the National Assembly here when the members have to be confirmed. If you believe that this can be a blockade, an obstacle and that these standards, as have been seen, are too high, then you have time to define yourself as a different form when voting. It's not fatal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you. I must say that there is a considerable debate on this matter. I have to say, I listened with one ear. I accept the Minister's full content arguments, and in this sense I am actually behind her and her arguments. However, I would point out that this requirement for a relative two-thirds majority is completely redundancies or unnecessary. Why? Because the law is adopted, as I understand it, by a simple majority. If the law is adopted by the ordinary majority, then, of course, the ordinary majority may in some other circumstances, in another Parliament very simply amend the provision that can actually lower the standard and elect members of this Council by a simple majority even or absolutely, etc., or most of the present or whatever. So, from this point of view, it is very important that we consider which is the majority of us and stick to it, regardless of who is here, unless we go into adopting the law by a two-thirds majority, which is probably not proposed by anyone, does not want, nor does there are constitutional conditions for it. From this point of view, I would say that if I understood the Minister correctly, if we were to make a deal, but indeed all of us, for the so-called absolute majority of 46 votes, then that is a good solution, if we even consider that we will never change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I conclude the debate on Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13 and thus the debate on the law. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE 1. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply. Member of the Financial Business Act, the insolvency proceedings and the forced cessation. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Borut Saiovic. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mag. Borut Saivitz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The National Assembly is at its 36th extraordinary session. 12. 2010 adopted an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. In this way, the National Assembly has eliminated the dilemma and different interpretations as to whether the legislator knowingly distinguishes between discharges in the enforcement procedure and bankruptcy proceedings. This Article of the Act provides that the priority claims shall be regarded as unpaid deductions for the termination of the employment relationship prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure and shall be interpreted as meaning that the prioritised claims in the enforcement procedure shall also be regarded as unpaid deductions for the termination of the employment relationship arising prior to the commencement of the enforcement settlement procedure. Former employees of Mercury and Mersteel, who were fired before the start of the forced settlement and whose unpaid dismissals were not recognised by the coerced administrators as priority claims, sought to adopt an authentic explanation. At that time, and immediately after the adoption of the interpretation, Director Mersteel Darko Gregorič assured that first of all, the compensations would be paid, here we mean a cash refund instead of a cancellation period, which, by the way, represents a smaller part of EUR 400,000, which belongs to 74 retired Mersteel workers, and later. Merkur Group has reserved EUR 539 000 for 119 Mercury and Mersteel workers, and together, compensations for workers who have lost their jobs from the declaration of insolvency to the start of the forced settlement process amount to a poor million euro. However, the latter, i.e. the promised and guaranteed payment, did not result from the intervention of the coerced manager who delayed the payment of the compensation. However, the Board of Directors should decide on the basis of the oral instruction of the competent judge of the District Court in Kranj. That's why Mersteel 10. 1. With regard to the eligibility of payment of damages, a judge shall be requested to issue a written compulsory instruction to the administrator. 12. 1. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 101 of the Act, the Court also issued the following written instruction: "The payment of compensation for short notice payments in respect of the applicable Article 21 of the Act cannot be considered as a priority claim even after the adoption of the authentic interpretation, since this interpretation is only the third point of Article 21(1), which refers to discharges, which are not compensation due to a reduced notice period. The latter do not touch on the authentic interpretation, so the situation is the same as before the adoption of the authentic interpretation and the consent to pay still cannot be given." We want to remove any confusion and problems related to the interpretation of Article 21 with an authentic explanation and to resolve this as quickly as possible for the benefit of the workers who have been dismissed. By authentic explanation, we give no one anything that does not belong to him, which would not be guaranteed or promised. Let me also point out that the above-mentioned written instructions of the court cannot be challenged and that the decision of the court would be tested in the appeal proceedings against the claim test decision and that the procedures for compulsory settlement due to the economic crisis are considerable. However, waiting for the court to definitively state how it understands the provision of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the first paragraph could lead to difficult remedial consequences for workers. The current psychosocial situation of the vast majority of Mersteel's fired workers requires the immediate conduct of the legislator in the proposed direction. We are also aware that this interpretation concerns the same case, the compulsory settlement of Mercury and Mersteel, in which there is an unconstant interpretation of the provisions of that law. Apparently, it's a problem that doesn't stem from the law, but from the interpretation of the text of the law. We hope that this is the last act of the legislator in interpreting the provisions of Article 21, since otherwise the National Assembly would become a kind of parallel judicial body to correct the decisions of the courts. I'm sorry to exceed your time, thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Saiovic. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. The position will be presented by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Act was considered by the Committee at its 33rd meeting on 26 May as the working body of the mother. Mr Saiovic, as we have already heard, is the proposaler. The Committee was informed of some opinions, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, by the State Council Committee. The representative of the applicant explained the basic objectives of the presented authentic interpretation, the Legal and Legislative Service, represented by Mrs Kurent, said in a presentation of the written opinion that there was no need for an authentic interpretation. The Prime Minister and Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, also said that there is no need for an authentic explanation and that the government does not support it. The Council of State did the same, meaning that his representative, Mr Jernej Verbic, said that the competent commission of the Council of State did not support this authentic interpretation. However, Merkur Maksimilian Kalan, a representative of the dismissed workers, explained why such a situation had taken place because it was simply that two judges were reading the same law in different ways and that was why there was also a re-initiation. After the introductory part, the Committee came to consider whether the proposed authentic interpretation should be adopted. The Committee then adopted, pursuant to Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considers that the authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Act should be adopted. The Committee then moved on to the consideration of the proposal for an authentic interpretation and also adopted it. In fact, it had adopted an amendment that reads as follows: In the proposed text of the authentic interpretation, the text 'in the compulsory settlement procedure' is replaced by 'in the insolvency procedure' and the text 'in the compulsory settlement procedure' is replaced by 'insolvency procedure'. The Committee then adopted, on the basis of Article 150(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision, which was adopted unanimously. It reads: The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures and a proposal for its text, together with the proposed amendment of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister? I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government has identified and adopted an opinion on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. The Government agrees with the proposer. It agrees in this sense that this issue, which the applicant is referring to in the proposal for authentic interpretation, constitutes a serious problem in practice. That is why the Government has also dealt with the appropriateness or necessity of such an authentic interpretation and this provision of the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination as proposed. The Government has found that it is reasonable to support the legitimate objective pursued by the proposed authentic interpretation of the law, and the Government also agrees that the situation we are facing in this regard certainly justifys such an effort. However, the expert position adopted by the Government and this is not different from that adopted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is that the question is whether the topic pursued by the proposal for an authentic interpretation is such that it deserves to be regulated by the National Assembly. In fact, wages and salaries are defined in the Labour Relations Act and not in the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination procedures, and the Government therefore considers that this objective can be achieved through an authentic interpretation of such provisions in the Labour Relations Act if the legislator seeks to regulate those relationships backwards and, of course, the regime would be even more consistent once the provisions of the Labour Relations Act have been amended. In any event, if the National Assembly decides to adopt this authentic interpretation of this specific provisions of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination on behalf of the Government, I can express the hope that the situation would not arise if an individual or legal person having an express legal interest were to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality of this provision, provided that the National Assembly would explain it in an authentic manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party or its Group of Members, Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For those who are looking at us, this is one such very difficult content, we are talking about the authentic interpretation of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, of Article 21, paragraph 1, as if people had these papers in front of them. I'll try to tell you the life story we're talking about. We have a company in the Bellies that went bankrupt. The bankruptcy manager shall require all business associates of this company for one year at a time, that all that they have received, that is to say they have done and obtained, the bankruptcy manager shall require that all of that be returned to the bankruptcy mass, but that there is no obstacle to the payment of the pension to the director of this company, is not an obstacle, nor is it to him. In this case, we have a company or companies that have gone bankrupt, but we are not talking about compensations or discharges for Mr Director, but about discharges and compensations for ordinary workers. Here we have become scientists and are exploring with authentic explanations of the point of paragraphs, articles of a complicated law. Let us resolve one point by providing an authentic explanation that the prioritised claims in the enforcement procedure are also unpaid discharges. This was said in December 2010. But this is one of the two companies that triggered this explanation, Mersteel and Mercury, and they said, "I feel bad. What if they accepted such an authentic explanation? Who are they? For the court is more." It is obvious that the court is more than a legislative branch of power, obviously the Constitutional Court has taken power in this country, which was heard today. I really don't know where we are. I've been here 11 years, but I don't understand that. As soon as it comes to the issue of compensation and discharge for workers, each can work on his own. But each one in his own way and attracts the entire court. If we have said that the authentic explanation is such that the unpaid deductions for termination of the employment relationship that occurred prior to the start of the enforcement procedure are the preferred claims, then this is the case! The court says, no, it's not like that, and now it says it's not like that. It's funny, it's really funny that we're looking for an authentic explanation ourselves, so the legislator is looking for an explanation of what he clearly accepted. That's really funny. But obviously there's no other way. There's nothing else. Because we explain such a law to the directors of the company in bankruptcy in a completely different way than to the employee. What else can a man do to find an authentic explanation? These workers haven't gotten anything yet, but the directors all got it. Retirement is a retirement, regardless of the contract, whatever it is. Nothing is worth the Director's contract any more than the employee's contract, nothing less, and the government says that it understands the objective that this interpretation or search for an authentic explanation does not belong to the ZFPPIPP, I will not read it, but to be a judge in the Labour Relations Act. That's what the government says, and I went to law enforcement and asked them if that's true. And that's where they told me it wasn't like that, because there's no authentic explanation to look for. The State Council opposes what we are talking about today. Of course, it is good, and I appreciate that once and for all, as far as I know, I am not a member of this committee, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice thought otherwise. The decision was that, it was different. In the Slovenian National Party in December 2010, we voted in favour, so we will also do today, knowing that it is not really "fair" and it is not fair or that we show ourselves to very bad legislators to look for an explanation of what we ourselves have adopted. Noting that there is no other way that there will be no distinction between directors and workers, we will do so. The explanation states, even if this is not feasible because some content is supposed to be applicable back to the law. Sure. A few days ago, we talked about other laws that, of course, did not talk about workers, but about the prestige and will of this government, and we were able to accept the law peacefully back. Calmly and like this. But here, when it comes to getting one change back, it is impossible to take laws back, unless, of course, some "world" conditions are met again, which could be interpreted here or interpreted, but no one understands what needs to be fulfilled. Obviously, all it takes is for the gentlemen or for those who feel so right to be married. But when it comes to ordinary people and workers, then, of course, the validity of the law is not possible, authentic interpretations are not possible, courts give their opinions, they give their opinions, those concerning them, but of course "fucker", once again "fucker", so that I will not use the worst word on the conclusions of this National Assembly, which is now after the constitution, whether we understand or not, if we are arguing or not, the first legislative branch of power. The second is a separate executive, which depends on it, because there are those who have been confirmed by the latter. The third is to be independent and separate from the judicial branch of power. That's what it is. And as long as we have as much disrespect as we have in recent times in these fundamentals, it is certainly a matter of sense to be in this National Assembly at all or leave to a certain layer of individuals from different branches of power. For the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination, I am talking about the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much. A nice hello to you all! Once again, hello to Minister Zalar. We are talking about a serious, important and rather complex subject; something that is substantively clear and comprehensible, but not dealt with in the relevant legal bases, is in courts where these cases end or epilogues can be based on something broken. That is why in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support the authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Financial Transactions, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation in order to establish a legal basis, a legal basis which will enable the injured to pay the deserved. The Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Discontinuation have already been amended several times in the past months, with a hand on the heart. The real problem and the search for solutions for these have led us to adopt amendments to legislation that define a series of procedures and lay down rules for operating in insolvency proceedings. Although the objectives and purposes of the law were clear and precise, the interpretation of Article 21 of the Law, which sets out the group of unsecured claims which must be considered as priority, has resulted in different legal practices. The Court’s specific practice in the case of Mersteel’s workers has shown that another additional step needs to be taken to ensure that workers’ rights in insolvency proceedings are fully secured and that various substantive and legal interpretations are clarified. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we thoroughly examined both the opinion of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Services. We can agree with some important aspects of both opinions, but at the same time we are convinced that the proposed authentic interpretation does not go beyond the purposes and objectives of Article 21 and is substantively correct, but is certainly just in practice. It is difficult, and we cannot agree to a situation where decisions that have a significant impact on the lives of employees in insolvency proceedings become a hostage of a legal vacuum resulting from a different interpretation of legislation by a court or anyone else. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that the solution provided by the authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on Financial Transactions, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation is not necessarily permanent. It is important for us to resolve with authentic interpretation those cases that are now or have occurred in the near past, while we expect the Government to prepare, as soon as possible, an appropriate amendment to the labour law so that in the future such intervention by the National Assembly, which solves a specific case, will no longer be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members is to be presented by Mr Andrej Magajna and is not. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janez Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u112	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have recently adopted an authentic interpretation of the part of the law that we are talking about today, which deals with financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, which eliminates the different interpretations and dilemmas of Article 21(3). We have before us the text of an authentic explanation for the second part of the same law. The proposal states that the first point of Article 21(1) of the Act should be understood by deemed to be the priority claims in the insolvency proceedings between wages and salaries for the last three months prior to the initiation of the procedure, also financial refunds, compensations instead of the notice period for termination of the employment relationship agreed between the employer and workers under the law governing working relationships. Following the adoption of the first authentic interpretation, a written instruction was given to the courts stating that the claim for compensation for a reduced notice period could not be regarded as a priority claim because the compensation for a reduced notice period is not liquidated and that it is not even affected by the authentic interpretation. The dismissed workers of Mercury and Mersteel then asked the court to retest the instructions issued, but unfortunately failed. The Court explained that the original decision remained unchanged. In the Social Democrats' Group, we understand and accept the order of the Court as a legal act, but we believe that this should only take into account the second dimension of the problem. Indemnities do not constitute a new right, but constitute compensation for outstanding salaries due to a reduction in the notice period. All claims for compensation as well as other forms of payment from other salaries must be understood as claims based on the right to pay. We are convinced that such an interpretation is also in line with the definition of the Slovenian Constitution, which speaks of the principles of the social state and the right to social security. By means of the proposed act, we want to protect the weaker in enforcement procedures, in which case the workers of Mercury and Mersteel, as well as other Slovenian workers who may or may not have been in a similar situation, are undoubtedly dismissed. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposal for an authentic explanation as well as the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! In a very short time, we repeat the exercise a second time. At last December's 36th regular meeting, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Law on Financial Transactions, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation, thereby eliminating the dilemma surrounding discharges in the enforcement and bankruptcy proceedings. This time we are dealing with the first point of the same article, the same law that touches on the issue of monetary reparations. This article is quite clear in this part and refers to priority claims and uninsured claims and mentions, under point 1, wages, compensations for the last three months prior to the commencement of insolvency proceedings. According to our belief, I also belong to reimbursements or compensations instead of the notice period for termination of the employment relationship agreed between the employer and the workers under the law governing the working relationship. Our Group will also support this authentic explanation, but we have already stressed on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice that this should not become a practice. In both cases, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made it clear that there is no need for this mandatory interpretation, since the legislation is sufficiently clear. Of course, the question is, How does one want to read or want to read marriages? The problem in Slovenia is obviously that some judges, coerced and bankrupt administrators read the laws we adopt here to the detriment of a small person, in this case to the detriment of workers who are on the road, and on the other hand to the benefit of capital or those who have put people on the road. These remain protected, nothing happens to them, and coerced managers and bankruptcyists often play strange games to the detriment of small creditors, these are workers and various subcontractors who are without political influence and end up getting nothing. However, when workers who are twice injured should have lost their jobs, this is existence, and they do not get wages or embezzlement or compensation, and forced managers, the bankruptcyors activate all their gray cells in order not to do so. Of course, because more would remain for banks than the largest creditors, which by their lending, as in the case of Mercury or Mersteel, are also responsible for the collapse of a company that received loans in the political form of an individual owner or director, rather than for banks to carry out a thorough financial diagnosis prior to the granting of credits. Credits to some privileged people are being destroyed by Slovenian state banks and, due to constant recapitalisations, they leave a large desert in the state budget. The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination has already been supported by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and we will do so today. The proposal was tabled by the Coalition Members. During the debate on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, it has already been shown that the coalition in this own proposal was no longer the most confident. Finally, with the explanation and conviction that even if we accept this authentic explanation, Mersteel workers will have nothing to do with it. So today we're doing some of Sisyphus's work, or as Korosca would say: all of it is the Gegen of the Blaze. If these assumptions are true, then the government should long before the National Assembly with a legal novelty, which would have resolved these dilemmas so clearly that it would no longer allow a large palette of imagination to judges or bankruptcys to the detriment of the weakest article in a forced settlement or bankruptcy, that is, workers who will be fired. In another case concerning the right of workers to social security, the Constitutional Court stated that it was in a possible unclear or inconsistent legal regime and, in the event of doubts, it was necessary to interpret the provision on the right of dismissal for the benefit of workers. It can happen to us in the future that we will deal with a similar case. SCT released SCT manager Maria Shantl a few days ago. SCT's going bankrupt now. Why the court solved Shantle, it may be known somewhere in the near future. There is still relatively little information on this in the public eye today. In the past, Mrs Shantl was a member of the SRD administration, the Slovenian Development Society, a company we liked to call "the gravedigger of Slovenian companies". Certainly, it would not be wrong for the courts to check past the work of individual bankruptcyists or coerced managers before giving them a new opportunity to make a good profit or to mix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! Again, from what we thought, we were convinced that we had finally solved something, from the dilemmas arising from the interpretation of the laws already interpreted. And this time again one of those fundamental injustices that promote mistrust, not only in government, mistrust in politics, mistrust in the rule of law, and where in fact they remain somewhere at the edge of the same rule of law, always the same, workers or those who have lost their jobs. We have already said no such practice, we wanted to remedy it by authentic interpretation, then it turned out that the interpretation of another branch of power was different again and today we are here again and we are trying to resolve this issue in the interest of directly affected. In December this year, the National Assembly adopted an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and compulsory winding-up procedures, by which it eliminated the dilemma and different interpretations as to whether the legislator distinguishes between discharges in the compulsory settlement process and insolvency proceedings, an authentic interpretation of the prior claims in the enforcement settlement procedure is also considered to be unpaid discharges for termination of the working relationship which occurred prior to the commencement of the enforcement settlement procedure. At that time, former workers of Mercury and Mersteel, who had been fired before the start of the forced settlement, sought to adopt this authentic interpretation and were not recognised as priority claims. Regrettably, after the adoption of that authentic interpretation, there was a re-explanation of the provisions of the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Clearly, this is a problem that does not arise in marriage, but in various interpretations of the text of this law. As a result, Mersteel’s workers received the benefits paid, not the compensation; the compensation was a payment paid by the dismissed workers instead of the cancellation period. The latter was decided by a competent court which, in the case of Mersteel, conducts the proceedings. In spite of the Court’s decision, however, there was a completely different treatment of the payment of compensation in the compulsory settlement of Mercury. Notwithstanding Mersteel, the coerced manager paid compensation to the workers. In the Group of Members, we cannot agree as a co-proposer of this authentic interpretation for the different treatment of Mercury and Mersteel's workers. This is based on the constitutional provisions on the right to social security and the right to work protection, which, inter alia, implies that, in the event of possible unclear or inconsistent legal arrangements, or in the event of doubt and uncertainty, such provisions must be interpreted for the benefit of the worker. The decisions of the Constitutional Court should also be followed by the principle of analogy on the issue of compensation. In addition, we note that the compensation represents only compensation for unpaid salaries due to the reduction of the notice period and that the latter interpretation of the legislation is also applied by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in lieu of the repayment period paid by the employer to the worker in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, taxes as a wage, i.e. income, and is charged and paid for social security contributions. Therefore, despite the different interpretations of the competent ministry or government and some other legal opinions, we decided to abolish these different interpretations by authentic explanation and to resolve the problem as quickly as possible for the benefit of the weaker party, the workers being fired. By authentic explanation, we don't give anyone anything that he doesn't, or we don't take anything that's his. Let us also note that the court’s rulings mentioned so far have not been able to be challenged and that the court’s decision would have been tested or authorized only after the appeal proceedings have been completed, after the compulsory settlement which had otherwise been concluded last month. By almost 93%, the Mersteel Trustees confirmed the hard settlement of the Mercury Metallurgical Company by 155 million euros, and the Kranj District Court issued a settlement confirmation decision. This means that ordinary creditors totalling EUR 44.5 million will be paid 55% in five years and the priority creditors will be paid in full. In our view, waiting for the judiciary to definitively state how it understands the provision of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the first paragraph, given that the enforcement procedures due to the economic crisis are considerable and the weight of Mersteel's settlement, in which the compensations of the workers who have been dismissed represent fines, would lead to difficult remedial consequences for workers. The current situation of the vast majority of dismissed workers, including Mersteel's workers in other forced settlements, which are taking place and where similar different interpretations are taking place, requires the immediate conduct of the legislator in the proposed direction, so we will have the authentic interpretation that we are co-proposers in the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. We were not alone in this article's interpretation last December, but obviously we were not able to clear up the problem. We have had many opportunities to hear about the problems of former workers of Mercury and Mersteel who were fired before the start of the forced settlement and whose unpaid dismissals forcible administrators have not been recognised as priority claims, but everything seems to be stuck in the interpretation of legislation, which is not for the benefit of the injured workers. While some feel that the current proposal of an authentic interpretation is not admissible, its content implies an extension or even a different meaning to that provision. This is also the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, partly supported by the government in its opinion, which also rejects the authentic interpretation. However, it is interesting that the Government has much to say in its opinion about the inadmissibility and inadequacy of the authentic interpretation, because these matters should be regulated by supplementing the Labour Relations Act and possible additions to other labour legislation. At this point, we can ask ourselves, "Who is the most important drafter of legislative proposals in this country and who has the opportunity to adopt certain legislative corrections through a coalition in the National Assembly?" Thus, it is somewhat unusual for the government to point out from this point of view the inappropriateness of the proposals, while failing to provide an alternative solution or proposing a way to resolve this unclear situation in a different way. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we currently see in this proposal an authentic explanation the only solution to actually move this dead stream, because it is not an administrative setback, but a hardship for people who have lost their jobs in a relatively fast process and at the same time have lost their financial returns or compensations, which, in agreement with the employer, certainly belonged to them. If we want workers to actually get what they also have in line with the general principles of legal certainty and the social state of preparation, we need to try to take a step forward and such an authentic interpretation goes in this direction. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the amendment prepared by the Home Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which takes into account the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and introduces the insolvency and enforcement procedure into the dictatorship of the proposal for authentic interpretation. Also due to this technical correction, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! For the second time in a short time, we are adopting an authentic interpretation of the Financial Operations Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures and even the same article, which is a specific case of forced settlement between Mercury and Mersteel. At the expense of interpretation, it has laid down which, in practice, would cause damage to workers and the question of confidence in the provision of the rule of law and also of the social state. Today's proposal for an authentic explanation is that the priority claims in the insolvency proceedings are also to be considered in accordance with Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Act, as well as cash repayments or compensations agreed between the worker and the employer instead of the notice of termination of the employment relationship; that is, in proportion to the time between the conclusion of the agreement and the commencement of the insolvency proceedings. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the authentic interpretation of Article 21 of this Law must be adopted in point 1. We see the reason for the need to eliminate this unfair and legally unsustainable situation that has taken place in Mersteel's dismissed workers, compared with the Mercury workers whose compensations have been recognised and paid. The different interpretation of the laws of compulsory managers and the case law in these specific cases is not necessarily the only one, but is certainly unacceptable and unacceptable in terms of constitutional rights after equal treatment and thus legal certainty. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government is, however, quite clear and cannot be disputed from a legal point of view, but other solutions, which would also be possible for workers to be wronged at this time, are not possible. If we were to change either this law or the Labour Relations Act – since it is ultimately a right from a working relationship – and through corrections or novels to save or protect workers, retroactivity would be unacceptable. Today and because of existing legislation, we have cases that need to be solved in such a way that they are clearly and equally understood and interpreted in the same way with the same legal consequences for all. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed authentic interpretation, as we cannot allow the various interpretations of the law in practice to lead to the exact same situations of different treatments of citizens and citizens. I wonder how many workers have not received an authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. All parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, have presented their views. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, the text of an authentic interpretation and the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to this text. I will ask in a row the still reported representatives of the parliamentary groups, do they still want a word after the presentation? Mr. Franco Yuri? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Franci Kek? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Judging from today’s debate here in the National Assembly, one would have very pleasant impressions and would say how well the National Assembly stands unitedly for an ordinary worker. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a lie, it's not like that! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you are forced to do so, so do you. We will be supporting an authentic explanation with the amendment, while at the same time allowing you to refresh your memory and your conscience, and especially because of the people watching us, I say this: we have already accepted one authentic explanation, as you know. We received it either by the end of last year or at the beginning of this year, it is not so important, but look: Judge A acts by paying the charges, Judge B acts by not paying them. They both use the same law, they both have a law school, they both have a permanent mandate, but that's how they do it. But in this country we still have the Supreme Court ruled by Mr Maslesha, but he sleeps the dream of a righteous one. Instead of hitting the table and telling me how to figure it out. He's in charge of saying that and carrying out a uniform case law, but that's not the case, but he doesn't know what he's doing. There's another authentic explanation. The workers came to me, too, if I'm ready to sign the case. I have made it very clear that the opposition Members do not have the slightest opportunity to bring any matter through, for a fundamental reason, because the coalition is voting as it votes and does not respect, but the opposition is abstract as if it is not in the National Assembly. However, I told them that in the SDS Group, I would reach the support of my fellow Members in order to support an authentic explanation. That's what I told them. An expert member of the Zares Group came to me and asked me to sign the case. I turned it down. I didn't want to sign this authentic explanation. Why did I do that? By the way, I knew there was a game in the back, a clean game. A game for the audience, a game for the viewers, a game for the local media, and they are not behind any of the workers' rights. This has, of course, happened to me several times before, and I am careful about such matters. Look how the sequel went. The situation was clear, I believe that there were signatories on local televisions, they were probably in the local media, at least that's usually the way it is done, so I see that it happens to be beautiful in front of voters and workers. That's it. Oh, look, we're starting the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee on 26 May. What happened on the board? Ladies and gentlemen, 15-0 didn't come out of the elevator. Not at all. The event was as follows, and I could not explain it before, because I have to interpret the official views of the committee, the one on paper, as an SDS Member, and I will tell you what was going on there. We first listened to Mr Saiovic's proposaler, who said what good intentions they had, what great intentions they had, but unfortunately, look, it won't work, it won't go through. But the intentions were really good, and something needs to be done for the workers. Because the Legal Service is against it because the government is against it, they're against it. Something similar has been repeated by all the other Members, those who discussed it at the time, including the SD representative, in my memory. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, this is very important, Member, this is very important, please, if you don't mind me. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't care. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u123	Mr. Gorenak has the floor, please, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Look, first of all, the situation went like this: when it hit me, the speakers thought you were a little bit eager when you listened to them, and I told you that you didn't want the workers to get those pair of fiches they earned themselves, and they're fighting for them and asking us for them, but at the same time this same National Assembly has authorized the government to take some truck to the Ljubljana Bank, 250 million euros, and there the gentlemen share 1,600 euros of regress. I've told you a few more bad things, because you know how bad it was, you looked at the ground, and you could do it today. During my performance, Mr Saiovic went from the first to the second Member of the Coalition Members and then there was a conversion. First, I think Mr. Saiovic, who said that this should be supported somehow, then came Mr. Potrč, who also said that this was actually true. And then the vote was 15:0, very nice, ladies and gentlemen. That's nice. What have we done to this day? Now look, the Legal and Legal Service is against, because there is no possibility to resubmit an opinion. The government, represented by the Secretary of State at the time, is against, but Mr Minister is in favour today. Why is that? What happened? What happened from the last time the Ministry was up against, until today, when the Ministry was in favor? What happened at the LDS, the last time they were against it, and today they're in? What happened in Zares? They were against it. Today they're in. SD, what happened to you that you were against and now you're in? I think I convinced you. Wasn't Gorenak the one who convinced you? Not at all. Do you know what convinced you, ladies and gentlemen? TV3 and people watching us. That's what convinced you. That's what convinced you. Thank God that's true. I'm aware that some of you are having a hard time listening to my performance, but the truth is, let's face it, but everyone from the first to the last doesn't get carried away. Mrs. Pecan, perhaps you'd like to continue. Please. Look, it's relatively simple. And it can't be any simpler, actually. If it were in the interest of the National Assembly and the Coalition to take care of a small man, then this point would have ended last time in five minutes on the committee, and today in ten minutes in the National Assembly, but that's not the case. We are still ready or ready to give 250 million to the Ljubljana Bank, and now they are yelling when they split the regress, and they are screaming that they need 250 million more, and they will probably get it from this government. Is that it? So this is a social state, a country that takes care of a small person. Oh, it's bullshit! Do you know why you're going to vote like that? Because you're afraid of the workers and thank God you're afraid of them and you have reason to fear them because they'll take you away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak used certain sentences, statements, accusations that were not correct in his debate, Mr Gorenak, but this is not the first time that has happened to us. Fellow Members and Members and also Mr Minister have a chance to discuss the replica if anyone answers. The minister has already called. Mr. Saiovic has applied. Mag. Saivitz has the floor. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that it is precisely because of such low-down, political debates that this round room is certainly for some time with pleasure that I am leaving and certainly not a candidate in the next elections for such a society and such political reflection. This was a typical example of why politics loses its reputation. We had a problem that was first identified by the court. I agree in this part with Mr Gorenak that, of course, it is a problem if different judges decide on different matters differently. Perhaps they bear part of the blame, and most of the blame in this story is borne by us Members in this National Assembly because we adopt too many laws, we accept them too quickly, and we do not see them properly. If our adoption of the law was then more decisive, more clear, if we were fortune tellers and knew what would happen in this country, then we could be smart and then all of us could have worked out a better marriage. Today, however, we are saving within the scope of the possibility what we can get rid of. Never and never has there been a dilemma as to what is substantively right, certainly and logically, it is that those who have agreed with the severance for contributing to the rescue of the company and to the minimum extent have been agreed, we pay our severance, and we have all understood the story in the beginning. After reading the law, the court decided differently, and our task is to explain by authentic explanation what we thought in the original law. Where a legal opinion is given by a government, if it is given by the Legislative and Legal Service, it must be taken into account and read. However, I must tell my colleague Gorenak that I am a Gorenjec, at home from this village, but that I have not talked about this problem in any media, not in Slovenia and not in television, and I have been asked about this subject, but that the question, which is human, cannot be a question of political prestige. And these were the dilemmas that we discussed both on the Commission of the State Council and at the beginning of this meeting. And I am sure that this is a good practice, that 15 people have reached us with some consensus, now that we are going to fight and fight at some political stage, who gets a bigger medal, but I don't think it's delicious, it's not fair, and above all it's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am responding to Mr Gorenak's claim, which I find to be incorrect because my position, which was presented half an hour ago, is very clear and is also evident in the magnetogram and I did not say what Mr Gorenak had just put in my mouth and I would therefore ask that you, Mr Gorenak, be correct when summarizing me. I have stressed that there is no doubt and that the government believes that this proposal of an authentic interpretation is pursuing a legitimate objective, so in this part we are in favour, pursuing a legitimate objective. Why is that? Because there is a serious problem in practice. And this problem has been detected through different court decisions. And since we know that bankruptcy procedures by nature are not very fast procedures, final decision-making on these cases, when it comes to different court decisions, would be disproportionate for a long time and could in fact occur if it were difficult or could no longer repair the damage caused by this different interpretation. So in this work, we are talking about finding solutions. However, I have also said something else that the Government believes that this issue cannot be regulated from a legal point of view by an authentic interpretation of the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures and that it would be much better to try to resolve this issue with at least an authentic interpretation of the Labour Relations Act, but I also said that it would be legally most consistent if it were to amend the Labour Relations Act. And that's the government's position. The problem that we all have together is that we agree that those who are most in need of assistance are affected here and that we need to find a solution to this situation and that this problem is linked to judicial decision-making and that we have an institution that is called an authentic interpretation, which must be used in very, very exceptional cases and carefully, because, in fact, such an attempt can turn into a conflict and undermine the consistency of the law, can even jeopardize its constitutionality, even I have warned in the final part of my opening act that I hope this will not happen, that such a situation will not occur. In theory, I can imagine the situation that even one court, on an official basis, would initiate such proceedings before the Constitutional Court in relation to an authentic interpretation. It's not an impossible situation, but I hope it doesn't happen, because I think we're all trying to get these workers compensation, that's what this whole thing is about. And now the question why the government did not come immediately with a change of law, precisely because, for the first time, this information came to the government at the same time as the National Assembly, that there was a different decision of the courts, secondly that the National Assembly was the one who reacted immediately and initiated this procedure for an authentic explanation. Third time. That the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, by its decision-making and vote, has given a clear indication of what decisions of the National Assembly regarding this authentic interpretation can be expected, regardless of the concerns of both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Fourth time. Since it is a situation where the amendment of the law could not in any case apply backward, as the representative of DeSUS said in his introductory address, it would therefore be possible to regulate only cases further. We would be in a situation where workers who are already affected by this moment could no longer help themselves because their rights are not established, which have actually triggered this process to regulate the situation, and so now we are trying to use this authentic explanation in some way to cover those who have actually become the first victims of these different interpretations. In this respect, because we can therefore expect, at least from the presentation of the parliamentary groups that the National Assembly will today support this authentic explanation, this will mean two. First time. That this interpretation will apply backwards and that, of course, courts will be able to use it when deciding in specific cases when giving instructions to bankruptcy managers. Another time. That, of course, it will continue. This means that the need to deal with the same issue will fall away with any amendment to the law that the government would put into the legislative procedure. However, only in the event of an attempt to challenge this provision, which is to be interpreted by the National Assembly in an authentic manner, before the Constitutional Court – in such a case alone, would it make sense for the Government to come up with a proposal for a new law that would address this issue further. So I conclude this debate, once again, with a clear explanation: that I consider that we are not here because we would be afraid of someone, but that we are to solve the problems of people who are in the public interest and that is the common task of the Government and the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I agree with that other part, as you say. Everything is possible in the court today. I wouldn't be surprised if there were a situation like what you said could happen, and that the goal would not be achieved, that the worker would get nothing. This is also possible because everything is possible in the Slovenian judiciary, as we have seen today. The Constitutional Court sets up a congregation, yes, it's the same thing as us taking one constitutional decision now, and we say, I don't know what. That's really possible in our court of law. But I can't agree with that first part. Your Secretary of State explicitly said, "We don't support authentic explanations." That's all. You have also all said in better words that you do not support authentic explanations. Mr Saiovic, I do not see any complacency in this, but I see purity towards people, like that trihead water, and we need to know that. It's a simple matter. Nothing in my implementation, I haven't said anything in my implementation, which would not be true. In addition, I do not have one vote from the Mercury workers who are in the Kranj home, nor will I, because I am running on another end, and I must say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u131	Dr Gorenak, after Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is a replica of the fact that the debater has the right to answer the debate of another debater because this debate relates to his debate and that his debate was misinterpreted and misinterpreted. In this case, it was not because you even agreed with what the minister said, so you would have to use the right of replica more carefully. The word is Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] Borut Saiovic as a member of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I agree with the President, because if it were different, this would be a replica of a replica, which is not going to work. Yeah, that's the whole point of this story that my speaker finally mentioned, that we're looking at things so that someone in Gorenjska doesn't have any electorate. I would look at the story differently or the same if it were happening in Maribor, Koper or New City. Responsible, serious politics must do what it thinks is best, not that everyone likes it every moment. We heard in the debate that someone had a serious problem to sign under this authentic explanation. There were many more of them. I have to say that after my turn, I had no such problems, and I'm glad we're here today. I would recommend, however, that in this story we speak as little as possible, that we do what is right, because otherwise someone with political or other tendencies will go to the Constitutional Court and then there will be only a shadow of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Sarah Wheeler has the word. [[She's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Willie Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Aloys Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Would you like a word from the government, Minister? He doesn't want to. He wants to speak to the mags' proponent. Borut Saiovic? On the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, on the text of the authentic interpretation and the amendment, we will decide in half an hour according to the meeting’s time frame, which is at 6.40 p.m. Well, in half an hour at 6.40 p.m. in the vote. I hereby end this agenda item, which will be suspended at the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.40 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 18 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 25 Members and Members voted against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment to Article 18 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 20. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 27 Members and Members voted against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 22. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 26 Members and Members voted against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment to Article 22 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 29. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 37 Members and Members voted against 7. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment to Article 29 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 35 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 27 Members and Members voted against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment to Article 35 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 53. We're voting. 26 Members and Members voted against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 128. We're voting. 42 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 128 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 151st Article tabled by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. 43 Members and Members voted against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 151 has been adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and thus conclude the second reading of the bill. The three amendments to the bill were adopted, and I therefore ask the representative of the Government whether he wishes to make a proposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to discuss the third reading at this meeting. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Government, as a motioner, proposes to the National Assembly that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this meeting, a third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude that the third hearing will be held at this meeting. The decision will be taken if it does not oppose more than a third of the Members and Members. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 42 Members and Members present, 21 of whom would not have been accepted against the Decision if it were opposed to more than one third, since 21 is exactly one third of 63, the decision was adopted and the State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Wednesday, 15 June, after the vote. [[...]] I hereby end this agenda item and will continue with the vote on the third reading on Wednesday, 15 June 2011. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Press Agency, the regular procedure. Two amendments were tabled to the law. First, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 12 of the SDS Group. We're voting. 29 Members and Members were in favour, 36 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 12 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted in favour, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13 has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. I ask the Minister whether she proposes a third reading decision at this meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u137	Mr President, I propose that a third consideration of the law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Since amendments have been adopted to less than a dozen articles, we can decide on this. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a third hearing to be held at this meeting. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 21. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 21.) The decision was adopted. The third reading of the bill will take place on Wednesday 15 June following the end of the vote. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination shall be adopted. Mr. Gorenak, explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support an authentic explanation. I believe there will be a coalition, at least that's what she predicted, and I'm looking forward to everyone writing for it. Look, €220,000 is the framework number we're talking about. It's like giving birth to five girls. That's the problem. The situation is simply clear. If the director of the Ljubljana Bank can carry a million, then we will give these people 220 000 euros, or a little more than one fifth. If we're Ljubljana Banks [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u140	Mr. Gorenak, stick to the content. And please explain why you're going to vote yes. Probably not because of the Ljubljana Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you for warning me. So, Mr Vice-President, I will vote in favour, and we will vote because we give only 220 000 euros to workers with this decision, and the Director has taken a million. "We will vote in favour" because this decision gives us only EUR 220 000, but we have given the Ljubljana Bank 250 million and they want 250 million more. That is why we will vote in favour. I, as I point out, am pleased or pleased, on behalf of the entire Group of Members, that this decision will be adopted because it will obviously be. Before that, I said it was accepted as giving birth to five girls. Of course, this is because it was the same on the committee and I am aware that the situation is such that people forced you into such a vote and I am happy and thank all the coalition Members who will vote like that, even though I know it will be difficult to push that button, but it will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak. You've been holding on to time, but not all the content, but I'm not surprised. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Anyone but Franc Yuri? No, no, no. Franco Juri, you have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group to explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, on behalf of the Zares Group, which is co-proposing this authentic interpretation, for the second time we have been co-proposing this interpretation. And we will also support this authentic explanation, and we are looking forward to supporting all of us with an authentic interpretation, because it is the elimination of one of the many injustices that arise in our society and which contribute to the fact that people, especially defrauded workers, are becoming less confident and do not even trust in the rule of law. So this time, I hope that there will be no more room for inauthentic interpretations, and that finally the issue of workers directly affected by this story will be resolved as we do today in the National Assembly. So the voice of the Emissary Group is indeed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-13-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a vote on the decision which I will read once again: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination shall be adopted." We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decision is adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that we are moving on to the text of an authentic explanation. First, we will decide on the amendment adopted by the Committee and then on the entire text. We decide on the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation in its entirety, in short, along with the amendment already adopted. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. He voted 65 against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
