ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member and Member of Parliament cannot attend today's meeting: Mag. Melita Župevc, Dr. Luka Yuri [[By 3 p.m.]] And Bojan Kontic. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORTMENT OF THE LAW ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MAINTENANCE OF THE MAINTENANCE ON THE PROPOSAL OF A PERSONAL WORK OF THE STATE AND THE DETERMINATION OF THE COUNTRY TO BE STOCKED IN THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, and a good greeting to the Members and Members. The law before you relates to the registration procedures for the property. In Slovenia we know the concept of dualist property, which means that it is two rights. One is an exclusive property right on the part of the building and the other is a right on the common areas of buildings or functional land. This high-level property is, of course, acquired as any property on the property by enrolling in the land book. In Slovenia, in the past, there have been a number of problems in aligning the actual situation of the property with that of the land book, and the country has already tried to do so in the past. Thus, in 2008 the Act on the Establishment of Floor Property was adopted at the request of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the decision of the land belonging to the building, which is the law with the shortcut to the ZVETL, which has been amended today. The essential feature of this law is that it allows for the registration of land or on the ground property, including on the proposal of only one high-level owner, whether or not other high-level owners agree. However, the fundamental principle is the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the procedure. After three years of implementation of this law, some of the problems that we are addressing have also occurred in practice. The key innovations that the novelty brings are as follows. First time. It prevents or removes the risk of potential delaying or obstructing the procedure for carrying out a prior or parallel cadastral registration procedure under the property registration law. In fact, the regulation to date was such that, in the case of unregulated cadastral issues, the court terminated the proceedings and the parties referred to a special administrative procedure in which these cadastral matters were settled and, of course, the rights and cadavers enjoyed by the parties were at risk of delaying these proceedings. The amendment now allows the Court to deal with these issues in parallel in the context of a single procedure, which will mean that the proceedings will be quicker and more fluid. Another novelty is that in order to facilitate the work with the novel, the circle of participants is expanding. In the procedure for the establishment of the floor property, the manager is also attracted after the novelty, as he can provide the court with useful information on the registered acquirers, the building as a whole and its individual parts. On the other hand, its participation also helps the acquirers of individual parts to become involved in the process. In the procedure for determining the land of origin, the novelty also ensures the participation of the municipality, which, on the one hand, can ensure that the court is directly informed of the urban aspects of the individual spatial situation and, on the other hand, protects the public good and thus the public interest in a particular case. For the procedures for determining the land of origin for buildings constructed before 1. 1. In 2003, active legitimacy is also extended to municipalities and land book owners. It is for these procedures that real estate records are the most uncoordinated and thus also legally safeguard the interest of municipalities and land-based bookowners following the alignment of real estate records with the actual situation, while at the same time increasing the possibility of carrying out procedures in concrete cases and thus contributing to the basic objective of the law, namely to speed up these procedures and to regulate records with the actual situation. The third novelty relates to the depreciation of documents. It is a situation where individuals who wish to obtain an entry into the Land Book do not have the original of the Charter from which their right is derived, but only with copies. So far, it has been necessary to carry out a separate procedure in which such a copy has been depreciated and actually acquired the status of entry into the Land Book, and the amendment now foresees that this procedure will also be carried out in a uniform manner within the framework of the identification process or the establishment of the floor property, which once again means that when one takes place instead of two proceedings, this procedure will be faster and the work of the Court will be more effective. The notice also provides for priority treatment for all proceedings initiated by 2013. Therefore, due to the interest of the proposer that these procedures be carried out at the earliest possible time, there is a certain advantage of preferential treatment for all those procedures that have already begun or are still to be initiated by 2013. This will, of course, mean that the courts will also have to take this into account through certain organisational measures in the framework of the annual schedules. With all the above, we will contribute to bringing the records of the land book into line with the facts as soon as possible. That's why we're counting on your support for the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Anton Kolaric for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is sitting at its 29th session. 6. In 2011, he considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law establishing the floor property on a proposal from the acquirer of a particular part of the building and determining the land belonging to the building submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration after a reduced procedure. Members and members of the committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, an opinion of the Council of State, an opinion of the Council of Justice and an opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana. However, amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 13 of the SD, Ares and LDS were tabled within the deadline of business. As a representative of the Government, Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, took part in the meeting, stressing that the amendment sought to facilitate procedures for the establishment of land on the floor and the identification of land belonging to the building, as the current law, which was in force for some three years, showed certain obstacles that prevented the speedier and more effective implementation of those procedures. The bill therefore introduces some changes that are intended to remove these obstacles. The first amendment concerns the potential delay and obstruction of procedures in order to establish the implementation of the cadastral entry governed by the Property Registration Act. Another important change is to extend the range of participants in the proceedings to managers and, of course, the compulsory participation of the municipality. However, other changes today's representative, Mr Secretary of State, has already spoken about and would not repeat them. The Legislative and Legal Service also took part in the meeting of the Committee. The representative stressed that some comments had been made and that the amendments tabled by the three parliamentary groups had been duly corrected. The State Council has also upheld the law. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 13 of the SD, Ares and LDS, as well as new Articles 13a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u6	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, distinguished president! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of the individual part of the building and on the determination of the property belonging to the building. In the DeSUS Group, we fully support the novel because we believe it is appropriate and necessary, since it ultimately allows for a more efficient and cost-effective land-book registration process. The Basic Law, adopted in 2008, tried to have a positive impact on the rather irregular or actual situation of the unadapted situation in the Land Book in a way that allowed the acquirers of the individual parts of the building to obtain the registration of the floor property in the event that the landowners are inactive or even absent with regard to the establishment and registration of the floor property. Although this law was well conceived and had a positive purpose, the three-year implementation showed shortcomings and obstacles, which still leave many unresolved cases in the courts regarding the establishment of a property on a certain part of the building and a particular plot of land. This amendment of the law no longer provides for a specific administrative procedure for entry into the terrestrial cadastra. If the property is still not included in it, the court will only, by its official duty, arrange for the entry into the cadastral as part of the procedure for the establishment of the floor property. The round of participants is extended to managers and municipalities, so this is an additional contribution to the economic procedure, as more useful information will be provided to the courts. The registration process will also be simplified in cases where owners do not have all the necessary documentation. Thus, it will be possible, directly in the process of establishing the floor property, to enter into the land book by means of the Institute for the Replacement of the Missing Charter for the Registration of Property Rights, which is applicable under the Land Book Act. The proposals on the basis of which the Ministry has drawn up a novelty are based on practice and have been made by courts. It is therefore hoped that the registration procedures will be significantly shorter from now on, with fewer administrations and for the user or customer in the process. It is also expected to have a positive effect on the up-to-dateness of the land register. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal of the novel and we will also confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of the Floor Property in front of us contains certain improvements that are necessary for the faster and more efficient implementation of the registration procedures. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we support the amendment of the law, which introduces the fact that a participant in the procedure for the establishment of the floor property is also an administrator or an administrator. We also support the provision that the court, in the procedure for the establishment of the floor property with the competent administrative authority, requires a description of the building and of the individual parts, if the latter has not yet been entered or requires a change of that data, if the latter do not reflect the actual situation. The law also introduces a provision that the enrollment participant who prevents the person appointed by the court from entering the premises, issuing the data and preventing professional activities in the execution of the entries or recording the changes to the cadastral of the buildings which are in the process of entering the building manager’s identity and parts thereof, in order to exclude such a participant from the proceedings. I would draw attention to the fact that certain new provisions of this Act are overstepping the provisions of the laws already in force and thus create inconsistencies between them, which will directly prevent the functioning of the new law. The scope of the cadastral registrations has been uncoordinated since it has already been proven in practice that the implementation of the administrative procedure does not allow for the prompt and effective resolution of the proceedings of the floor property, and the Council of Justice has also established it. The new Law on the Establishment of Floor Property establishes a new property relationship, beyond the classical foundations, establishes a new procedure for the establishment of floor property and the establishment of the relevant land to the building, although there is already an appropriate legal basis for this, for example, in the Real Law, the Housing Code and the Land Book Act. We believe that if we are already changing the new legal basis, we should have previously analysed the existing one and, if it turns out to be a certain other law governing the same matter, prevent the duplication of rules. In the draft law, certain provisions of the rules already in force should be repealed in the transitional and final provisions. Unless we do so, there is confusion in the application of the correct legal basis in decision-making procedures. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the law, but we hope that the changes envisaged will indeed contribute to a more efficient and faster resolution of the procedures for the registration of the land title into the land book. That in a few months we will not get the novel on the table again, saying that the provisions are not sufficiently clear and concrete and that the novel could not be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of floor property in the Republic of Slovenia, despite the existing Act establishing a floor property on a proposal from the acquirer of a part of the building and the decision-making of the property in the building, which was adopted in April 2008, remains problematic. The basic purpose, now in force law, was to establish a rapid and effective procedure for entering the land book, for a little more than 300,000 properties, which are either not yet registered in the land book or do not have an orderly floor property. However, the analysis of the implementation of the legislation showed that the procedures defined by the law created obstacles which were not detected and known at the time of the preparation and adoption of the law. As a result of these obstacles, the law does not and does not achieve its objectives. The new law that we are considering today addresses these problems by what, and by upgrading the initial provisions of the law in the light of the fulfilment of the basic principles of the Law on the Establishment of Equitable Property, such as the economy and efficiency of the procedure, and by taking into account the fundamental concept of the basic law. The proposed solution includes changes that will largely eliminate the risk of delaying or obstructing procedures for the implementation of the previous cadastral registration under the Property Registration Act. The novelty also extends the range of participants in the proceedings with a view to facilitating the work of the courts. Thus, the building manager and the municipality may also be involved in the procedure under the Act on the Establishment of Floor Property, which will provide additional information in the proceedings that will help to speed up and improve the implementation of the procedures, while at the same time increasing the standard of public interest protection through the participation of municipalities in the prescribed processes. Furthermore, the amendment extends the active legitimacy of the procedures for determining the land belonging to the buildings built before 1. 1. 2003, including the municipalities and the introduction of amortisation of documents, thereby requiring double procedures for entering the land book. The Law on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the determination of the land belonging to the building builds the existing law with concrete solutions resulting from a serious analysis prepared by the Ministry of Justice, together with the courts. At the LDS Club, we support the solutions brought by the novels of the Law on the Establishment of Floor Property and we hope that this law will also contribute to the faster regulation of land registers in Slovenia, so we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In order not to repeat the content of the proposal for a new law, which we agree not to repeat, for sure, the useful content given by the amendment, that is to say that we support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. However, we would like to draw attention to the fact that we also did so in 2008 in order to take further all the measures necessary in the courts and the Ministry of Justice, which the Minister has already promised at the working body meeting, in order to provide the basis for the effective implementation of the law. The advice itself should also be checked for any further concerns raised by the Council of Justice and the members of the Council of Justice, depending on whether new obstacles to the implementation of the law will be put in place. For so far we have waited from 2008 to this year, it is a good two years, and at this time we could probably provide a few more entries than we actually did. However, the registration of property and property rights is particularly important because it is also an issue of property ownership, an extremely important question for a large number of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, because we know how the entry into the land book was inconsistently regulated and we know, in the end, what was going on with the realisation of the housing law, when many of us were granted ownership rights, and how difficult our desire to enter the land book has been, because the construction procedures, the regulation of contractual relations and similar inconsistent arrangements have been. So we want the success of this reform, it is absolutely necessary. We advise and underline the need for immediate monitoring and possible complementarities in order to bring about a major problem that exists with regard to the recording of property in the land book and, before that, in the cadastral as soon as possible and as consistently as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u14	Good morning, colleagues, colleagues. The previous government or parliament in its previous composition made significant progress in the area of the resolution of property, as we adopted the Act establishing the floor property in 2008. This law allows the procedure for the creation of the floor property and the entry into the land book to be carried out on a proposal from a single proposer, whether or not the other co-habitants agree with it. This was an attempt to facilitate the creation of floor property and the incorporation of multi-housing buildings into the land book. As is known, first - class property is created only by entering the land book. In 2008, when we adopted this law, the number of unregistered real estates or real estates, where the investor was registered as the owner, not the actual buyer or owner, was still very large. The number was about 300,000. They also own such companies, especially construction companies that no longer exist or are bankrupt today. Today’s chain bankruptcys of construction companies such as SCT, VEGRAD, Grosuplje Construction Company can further deepen the issue of the floor property. It is therefore necessary to allow the purchasers of individual parts of the buildings to obtain a land-based book entry of the land-based property even in cases where the land-based bookowners are inactive or have long been absent. If the amendment of this law is to be implemented, it is hoped that some of the obstacles that may arise or may arise will be removed; this is to the potential delay or delay in the implementation of the procedure for the establishment of the floor property proposed by the acquirer of the individual work or the property belonging to the building. There is now a delay or obstruction of proceedings also due to the statutory prior cadastral registration referred to in the Real Estate Registration Act. In the event that the building is not yet entered into the cadastral system, the court will do so on an official basis, which is good. In multi-housing buildings, it is difficult to find a consensus of all roommates, just like here in Parliament, and many times there are difficulties in entering the floor property. The practice has also shown that legislation has not always followed the reality of life, and this has resulted in problems that have caused great problems for people. If they are truly clear legal bases, it is only a technical and technical question to enter the land title into the land book. However, clear legal bases must be provided by the National Assembly. We will not oppose the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. A new law that is ahead of us is due to certain claims for corrections three years ago to the basic Law on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the decision-making of the property of the building. The law was adopted at that time because of a number of judicial complications resulting from a completely irregular situation, a situation that had arisen and all records since social property time, a modest privatisation legislation and relatively unsuccessful attempts to resolve the situation since independence. As the applicant also points out, and in this case we strongly believe that their allegations are true, certain legislation has proved to be unhappy and, above all, ineffective. Thus, the corrections are very welcome, for example, we support the news in order to include the building manager in the proceedings. This is an addition to the law, which is logical and lifelike, but above all in practice are managers, at least in most cases people who own or have up to the most information about property and property. It also makes sense for the Court, when it finds that the building is not entered into a cadastral cadastral registration and thus prevents the delay of judicial proceedings by continuing to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Real Estate Registration Act. However, respected colleagues and colleagues should be reminded of something. Here we also have a relatively negative opinion of the Council of Justice and a very negative experience in the field for the implementation of the entry into the Land Book in general. The Council of Justice points out in its opinion that it is very questionable to regulate these situations by special law and in a different way, especially if most relations are already governed by a real legal code and the Law on Unfair Procedure, and much of this is covered by the Real Estate Registration Act. They also point out that the basic law already applies to the exposure of new property relationships outside the classical framework, which is problematic. Secondly, in the Slovenian People's Party we obtain specific information from the ground that in the field of enrollment in the land book after the recent adoption of the Law on the Land Book, there is real confusion. It turned out that the organisational structure was not adequately prepared and even more so that the competent authorities were not organisationally able to implement the new legislation when the novel was in force. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are so afraid that this novel will have no real effect if it is stuck in the very essence of writing into the land book. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a new law, because today we are talking about the amendment of the law, and not about the meaning of the existence of such a law already on the ground, such as the critical Council of Justice. From this point of view, however, some progress has been made, but many things are still not being resolved or many are expected to remain an obstacle to the implementation of this law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore expect the Government or the competent ministry to carry out an appropriate analysis and report within six months of the implementation of the law, whether the current novel results and or serves its purpose effectively. At the same time, we would also like to take this opportunity in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to appeal to the competent ministry to find solutions to the current difficulties in the area of writing into the land book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda or at the latest at 1.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on development aid to the white countries in the period 2013-2016 under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members, with Ivan Grill, the first to be signed. The bill is proposed at the 30th emergency session of the 23rd. 6. 2011 treated the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. Since, after the discussion, the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the competent ministry. I'm sorry we can only say what we've already said. I am disappointed that 35 Members and Members of this National Assembly have assessed that the law is suitable for further consideration and that the law was appropriate, and then, I think, 11 Members of the competent national working body have decided the opposite, because of other work obligations. And that 11 compared to 35 advantage. And now we can say once again that, while we would like this law to help people in Montenegro, Semic, Metlika, but 11 people on the work force have obviously changed their minds. Why is that? I don't know. If there are not enough convincing facts that there is 14% unemployment in this province, that there is a large number of workers' forgiveness, that the economy has clarified that health care is impaired, that road and rail infrastructure is poor, then what should convince us that someone is in need of assistance. Do not speak to me as some of my colleagues have said, we have adopted a law on coherent regional development, lying that the whole opposition has not confirmed this law. Yeah, we're the opposition, and we confirmed it. With conduct, you know, you know, and you know that the Law on Harmonised Regional Development is a paper sheet, so that the Ministry has shown that it has done something, and it has helped to date since its entry into force there is no one with one euro. But when we passed the Pomura Act, because we just said, let's help ourselves, it's the result, and it's the partial result. I'm sorry we turned down another law. I'm still saying, let's help ourselves, people of God, let's help ourselves, let's help the Slovenians. Today we have 5%, we have seen how Europe is punishing us now, but I don't care. It pains me that we're standing so badly. That we're a long way from Maastricht, as far as public debt is concerned. We have 600 million euros in damage caused by the storm yesterday, the day before yesterday. We have a bunch of problems, we have political divisiveness, we have a country in disarray, we have a state of crisis and - nothing! And here we have at least one law that we can help people with. In addition to helping them, God will not allow such and similar disasters to happen to them. No! No! No! No! An excuse for a law that is a total bluff — the Law on Harmonized Regional Development — I support it because it should help. However, it has not helped and will not help any of the 12 statistical regions. And we see it, and if we see it, let's help the Slovenian to himself, individually, in statistical regions. You'll help the suction, because it'll be necessary. I come from there and it's in my heart the most, but I feel the same way about all the other provinces. I will never say, "Don't help the White Land to help Zasava." No, let's help everyone! And I really don't understand – 14% unemployment, poor health care, no road connections, no traffic connections, no workers' forgiveness, no economy of the law that could help, but no! [[...]] But it's money to pay off Greece. It's money to pay off Portugal. I'm just wondering where we're going to get $600 million to help with the damage that's caused. Knowing that there was a call for assistance at European level to the countries affected by the storms. And I also know, or I suppose, that, given everything I've been asking and heard, this country, this country, and the competent ministry, doesn't know that. And I wonder if, after last year's storm, she asked Europe if she could help and if she would ask at this point. If we do not turn around again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I am sorry, we have supported all laws to help the provinces and will continue them, because we help ourselves, the people of God, not to look at everyone else, but to forget ourselves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u20	Your Honor! There's nothing to add to the explanation we gave at first reading. Something was wrong with the preparation of this law and with the purposes behind it. Obviously, it was a matter of trying to get closer to some part of the population, somehow saying how that part of the marriage is better, fairer, fairer than others, which we believe is the system law that was passed this year, the one that should and began to provide assistance to the needy immediately. It is not understandable and very difficult to explain why he appeals that he should not help the White Land immediately, but only by 1. 1. 2013 What is the secret here, the bill's proponents have not told me, so I am not surprised that the law on the committee has experienced the same fate as it did. According to all the data, there have already been calls this year and in the years 2011-2016, the White Country is expected to receive around EUR 288 million in one way or another to establish basic infrastructure and to create better conditions for development and to adapt faster to the needs of the whole of the Colony. After all, in the strategic documents and debates we have called Pokolpje, including Kočevsko, an area that is less developed, which is degraded and similar. And in this law, it simply let go of this part and focused on just one area, which indicates that there was a hurry, that it wanted to do something that at first sight would have been liked and could have been understood as a good gesture, but you know how it is with the Danish who are walking around and offering something, only in the far future, if at all. This is a fact and Mr Tanko, you already know why you left out 2011, 2012 and you only wanted this help in 2013 and beyond. That's probably what's happening. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] What are you talking to me about?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u21	Mr. Colleague Anderlich, don't get carried away from the bench. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u22	No, no, if he's in the way. You must warn him first.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u23	I can't hear him because he doesn't have a microphone on. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u24	You can't hear him, but I can hear him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u25	As soon as he has it, I'll take care of him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u26	But that's just manners. If you do not want to participate constructively in solving problems, then by hindering, misleading and similar things, you try to prevent even what is good and what specific areas would benefit from. Of course, there is no dilemma here, and I firmly believe that we are basically Members and Members of Parliament working to ensure that all areas in the Republic of Slovenia receive the same treatment, equal assistance, which, of course, must be designed in a way that anyone who is able to meet the criteria at such a level of development can be justified in order to be able to reach them. This must not be shocking, it must not be over your fingers and eyes, but on the basis of criteria, calls and, of course, transparent spending of money when it comes to direct assistance. In the Liberal Democracy, we firmly believe that the third development axis will be accelerated in the coming period, from Koroška to the White Land, and that this will be the largest contribution, in addition to building another infrastructure, to more coherent regional development. The promises are good, the things are being prepared, the funds are being planned, which means we are on track, but of course in 2011 and beyond, not just after 2013 as some would have thought it would be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be moved by Willi Rezman. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Tanko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be relatively short, for a reason, because we have also represented it in the past and which has not changed in any way since then. It means that the unrelated Members support the Government's attempts to help the development areas at risk, through various measures, but the measure proposed in this proposal is not such as to be appropriate. It is not appropriate for the various reasons that we have mentioned so far, not only in the short term, but that we are very disturbed by the fact that it foresees disproportionately large, important aid compared to others, including affected areas, and of course we are disturbed by the fact that part of the organically connected part of the proposed law has been released. And because measures are already in place to help the Cowclepe, a wider area that is more proportionate, which takes more account of the problem across Slovenia, that is, other areas where development problems are involved, we believe that those measures that have been taken and which we consider appropriate should be implemented. We know that in Slovenia there are differences in development across individual regions. We know that these are excessive, we know that they are even growing, we also know that our regions will never be fully evenly developed nor because of this, because this is not possible because of the different preconditions in which individual regions live their lives. Unjustified differences, however, need to be reduced. And the measures taken by the government are meant to go this way. Some have tried to achieve changes in this regional development in different ways. Let us remember that, first of all, the main weapon was the establishment of the provinces, and we did not realize that. Then there was a whole series of proposals for individual laws for individual regions, which, apart from one, were all rejected. And yet we have finally amended the Harmonised Regional Development Act, which seeks to be systematic and on the basis of which measures have already been taken to help the Chopper. We support these systemic solutions, we support measures that are also targeted at the direction of the development support to Pocolp and the White Land within the Pocolp, and we feel that there is no need to replace the already adopted measures with the law that foresees its effect in 2013, or, for a reason, the applicants have also stated why this year is written there. As far as the Group of Non-Aligned Members is concerned, therefore, all 5 votes are taken to ensure that the old measures are implemented and that this proposal is not adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u30	All in attendance, Your Honor. I too will be very brief, because, as we announced in the position of the Socialist Group of Members, at the first reading of the draft law at the plenary session of June, our parliamentary group of the draft law did not support the majority. Nevertheless, the proposal received sufficient support for the second hearing on the Committee. Our parliamentary group also followed the guidelines in the Committee's debate that Slovenia needs to resolve regional differences in an integrated solution. With regard to the proposal for a law, which also contained solutions already in force under the Harmonised Regional Development Act, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that proposals relating to individual regions, that these proposals constituted a systemic derogation and, at the same time, highlighted the dilemma of compliance with the Constitution. All the arguments cited so many times, as well as the possible unconstitutionality of the proposal, are the reason that the Social Democrats' Group of Members did not devote its support to the second reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me introductoryly reiterate to all those who are deceiving that this law would only enter into force after the proposal if it were the will to adopt it. It is not true that if it were the will to support this law, the amendment could be made in force in 2012 and also in the balance it would be possible to provide funds. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we regret that the Development Support Act of the White Krajina in the second reading no longer received support and was rejected by the ruling coalition without mercy. Once again, we have witnessed that the ruling coalition, in which we can count DeSUS and Really, does not care about the problems and hardships of our people, this time it was the White Land. Since the White Country Development Support Act was adopted at first reading, with only one vote of difference, and also under a web of circumstances, we were aware in the SDS that the ruling coalition would want to reject this law as soon as possible and place it under the carpet, because they know that it is a very unpleasant topic for them in the public eye. That's exactly how it happened. Just a week after the first reading of this law, an urgent meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government was convened in the Chamber without a TV transmission, so that people would not see the coalition reject the law without mercy at second reading. Before that, we have also put forward a proposal in the SDS that a public presentation of opinions be made before the second reading of this law, where the economists and all interested people from the White Country could have the opportunity to propose an addition to the original text of the law, and the ruling coalition has also rejected this proposal. Dear Government and the ruling coalition, your hairy excuses that for rejecting this law, the problems in the White landscape will be solved by the Law on Harmonized Regional Development, no one believes you today. The funds that can be obtained through invitations to tender under this law are drips into the sea and nothing more. This drop has obviously erupted as a significant part of the 2011 and 2012 balance of the budget is also lower, and I am sure that you will also accept such a balance in the coalition. I wonder how you'll then excuse such solutions. In the SDS, we have prepared and put into parliamentary consideration the White Krajina Development Support Act in the belief that this is the only way for the White Krajina, which has been forgotten and neglected for decades, to at least partially halt its continued decline in the economic and social sphere. Without immediate financial assistance and the construction of an essential transport, energy and municipal infrastructure, the Bela Krajina will certainly be economically poor and will become an area with the highest unemployment rate in the country. So far, several white companies have been bankrupt in the White landscape. The future of some who are fighting only for bare survival today is increasingly uncertain. The largest company Secop, which employs almost a thousand people, will move its production to Croatia. People in the White landscape certainly deserve the country to come to their aid and enable them to create conditions for existence and at least minimal development. They do not ask for help because they themselves do not want to work and participate in their development, they just want to be provided with working conditions and nothing more. Dear Belokranjka and Belokranjci, unfortunately this time you were also left in SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. I'm sure you'll be aware that a ruling coalition that obviously doesn't care about people's hardships is working in the White Land in a way that creates priorities where they shouldn't be. If only part of the funds allocated to Greece to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank had been earmarked for the development of the White Krajina, the situation there could certainly have changed in a very short time. But to say that the Law on Harmonized Regional Development is a solution for the White Country is more than a diversion, and we all know that this is not the case. I wonder if the Members who will sit here in the next term will admit that that law, as I have mentioned many times before, has been an unsettled transfer and that will be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u34	Your Honor! Indeed, the Group of Members does not support the bill in the majority. Of course, it is not possible to avoid the view that some of the findings of the proponents and discussers are not without a basis. However, we have also adopted a system-wide law to promote coherent regional development to avoid the pressure of the regions in the National Assembly. There was no such law at the time of the case of the Pomur region. Undoubtedly, it is a problem of specific partial laws not to make a comprehensive comparison with the situation and needs of other regions or areas which also have the right to State intervention, if conditions exist. The proposed law, however, means concrete aid to a specific region without meeting objective criteria on the basis of which other regions would benefit under equal conditions. The aid, in addition to the difficulties that are evident, must include all the circumstances, all the criteria and not least the real resources provided. On the other hand, empathy in this assembly is not a problem quickly, but it is clear at the outset that so much of the proposed funding is disproportionate to the resources that the Republic of Slovenia is committed to solving development problems in other very comparable areas, because our approach to solving economic and social problems can also be referred to as social threats from observation and control of the whole, because otherwise we can commit new developmental structural imbalances, the assessment of the Group of Members is the same as I mentioned at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already acted in accordance with our already established practice of support with the legislative proposal and other solutions which in any way enable improvement in the situation in the areas of development lagging behind, and we have therefore supported the decision to continue the consideration of the Law on the Development of the Support of the White Land. We have already made a similar proposal in our parliamentary group a good year ago, prepared by former Member Andrej Fabjan and sent to the Council of State in coordination, and some members of the 6th constituency also participated. Unfortunately, that marriage proposal has not received broader coalition support, and a similar fate has also been met by the law that we are considering. Despite some proposed amendments extending the proposed development support measures across the entire area of the Colony, which would prevent certain duplications, and allow the implementation of the measures provided for in the law to begin in 2012, the procedure for addressing this law ended on the home labour body. In the parliamentary group, we regret this decision because we believe that the implementation of this law would accelerate the development of this beautiful region, from the country of the forgotten region, which is currently in a particularly poor economic and social situation. White Krajina has always been, because of its geographical location, a transport and economically neglected area, which has recently been facing more than 14% of the unemployment rate due to bankruptcys, which have been following the current lane and the departure of certain companies abroad. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the proposed law would solve a number of situations in which the Government has not been properly confronted, as an appropriate programming approach for development, support to the White Krajina and concrete financial resources would enable this area to be successfully addressed by the financial and economic crisis and create conditions for a development breakthrough. The bill seeks to achieve this through a set of 8 development support measures that would allow for the creation of new jobs and the promotion of higher added value activities. At the beginning of this year, the Act on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development was adopted, which was opposed by members of the Slovenian People's Party because we considered that this was a step in the wrong direction, in order to increase the degree of centralisation and that the law did not provide sufficient resources to deal with regional differences, as stipulated by the previous law, which provided funds in the form of 1.5% of gross social product. Our assumptions are apparently being realized, as the new law, which is supposed to be systematic, does not provide sufficient support for the developmentally lagged areas, so the need for so-called intervention laws is still large. As has already been said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party regret that the process of dealing with the Development Support Act of the White Krajina is ending, as it would allow the economy to be revitalized and the development of road and other infrastructure faster. At the same time, we call on the Government to allow the Belokrans, or all the people of Pocolupia, to withdraw from the spasm in which the economic crisis and the multi-year stepmotherly attitude towards them, through the various measures it has so strongly advocated in the consideration of the Law on the Promotion of Coherence Regional Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u38	Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable President. It is clear that the DeSUS Group has already shown its disfavor in the previous proposal of the White Country Support Act. Above all, we understand the fact that, last but not least, it is the Democratic Party of Pensioners who has been active in this area for some time now, so we had ministers, ministers. We ourselves were aware, and with pain and somehow anger, we accepted the fact that developmental differences or differences between regions in Slovenia are increasing. This is certainly a very bad sign for the harmonious development of our country. We have always sought to create or design mechanisms that will slowly equalize these differences. We fully understand the fact that, at the time of the absence of built-in mechanisms, the intervention law for the aid and development of Pomurje came on the day. At that time, too, the DeSUS Group confirmed or showed favor to this intervention law. However, we were aware of the next phase when the proposals for intervention laws for Podravje, Koroška and other parts of Koroška rained, that something must be done to incorporate system laws and criteria so that decisions and measures can be taken without intervention laws and to harmonise differences between developed and underdeveloped regions. We fully understand the situation in the White Land. However, after we have adopted the Law on the consistent promotion of regional development, it seems to me that sufficient mechanisms have been put in place, including through these mechanisms, as well as through the creation of an interdepartmental commission with the Government, which is responsible for specific short-term measures in the area of the White Land, as well as through recognised areas of the so-called problem area with greater unemployment in the area of the White Landscape, Kočevsky, Kolpija, I think or we in the parliamentary group there are enough good mechanisms to help the White Country in the sense that it will develop more rapidly. However, if we look at today, when we also have on the table the draft state budget balance for this year, then we see that these funds for the Cowcle also do not fall for the White Land, they remain. Therefore, all these measures taken by the Government are very concrete, also concrete, by not reducing funds. Well, the White Land will receive this help. And the adoption of an additional intervention law to help the White Krajina would be discriminatory and somehow favoured to other comparable areas. There is Koroška, there are other regions, which are also in a very difficult development situation. The DeSUS Group believes that through all these mechanisms, through the regulation, not least through all short-term measures to help the White Country, the conditions under which the White Country can develop intensively are given. Not least, however, respected colleagues and colleagues, all these measures have been taken in such a way that they are largely linked to the activities of local communities. It is up to the local communities to decide whether they will be able to take advantage of all these measures in their favour, turn to their own interests and speed up the development of the White Country and this region, which we consider to be in a real difficult situation and somehow change the trend and the course of events, so that it will then be better developed. So these are all arguments that the DeSUS Group cannot support this time the attempt to adopt the White Country Development Support Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law amending the law on investment in public health institutions, which the founders of which is the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1994-2011, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. He's got a good word. Dr. Ivan Erzen, State Secretary, Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, for the period 1994-2011, entered into force on 28 April 1994. Since the entry into force of the Law on investments in public health institutions, we have seen many positive effects of this legal solution in the implementation and completion of investments in public health institutions. A special account shall be drawn up at the Ministry of Health and funds shall be collected for investments separately from other appropriations of the budget. The sources of investment resources are in accordance with the provisions of this Act: State budget resources, part of the depreciation of public institutions, assets from sale and rental of property that the public health institution does not need to carry out its basic activities, gifts, elections and other earmarked funds from the recipient of the funds allocated by private law persons for investments in the public health institution. The purpose of the law proposed is to extend its validity by four years, that is, until 2015, in line with the flow and completion of investments in progress and the planned investments in that period. With the Ministry of Health putting in place a consistent and rigorous implementation and monitoring of existing investments, the extension of the law will also increase the efficiency of the implementation of investments and the more cost-effective use of public money. The extension of the law relates in particular to the continued provision and maintenance of a stable system of financing investments in public health institutions. It's about investments in buildings and equipment. I would also like to point out that, despite the fact that this is a matter of extending the law, it is necessary to know that these are not investment activities that would be made up of mere thought, ad hoc, quickly, but rather a programme that we want to implement in the next period, as has been adopted in the Government and then in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Ljub Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, welcome to the house! The Health Committee shall meet at its 8th regular session on 30 June. 6. In 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the amendment of the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, for the period 1994-2011. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 105th meeting, on 3. 6. 2011 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In addition to the text of the bill, the members of the Committee for the Consideration of the Meeting received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health, Disabled Persons. Mr Ivan Eržen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. He stressed that the purpose of the proposal for a law was to extend the validity of the existing law on investments in public health establishments, which is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1994 to 2011. Since the entry into force of the law, there have been positive effects in the implementation of the completion of investments in public health institutions. To this end, the Ministry of Health has developed a specific resource, a specific account for which funds are collected for investments. The funds of the State budget, part of the depreciation of public health institutions, assets from the sale of real estate, rental, gifts, electoral and other earmarked funds for public health investment by private law persons. As a result of investments made, started or are in the completion phase, that model should be maintained until 2015. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and has drawn up a comment on Article 4 concerning the replacement of the health plan of the Republic of Slovenia with the Resolution on the National Health Plan. The opinion on the draft law was also forwarded by the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, Labour, Health, Persons with Disabilities, which supports that proposal, in particular in view of the urgent need to ensure the financing of investments in public health institutions covered by the national development programmes which will be launched or have already begun or are being completed during the period 2011-2015. In the debate, the members of the committee largely supported the proposal for a law, asked some questions, namely: To this end, what amount of resources was raised in 2010? What dynamics in fund-raising are foreseen in this year and in the coming years, even in view of the tight economic situation? The way in which the funds collected will be used is because there is no information on the application of the law on what investments are taking place and the phases in which the funds are being spent. The past experience of managing investments in public health institutions shows that they are only taking place for too long, that in the meantime there are additional costs, which is also shown by that law, which has changed since 1994, when it entered into force, and that investments have been prolonged or have not been concluded within a period of time. When will the Ministry proceed to define and develop the network and standardise hospitals in relation to existing capacities? The implementation of the law from 1994 to now and until 2015 also shows that on the one hand we have a great need for these investments and, on the other hand, the funds chosen and acquired are not being used effectively. The Ministry of Health should not lead investment in health institutions because it is not qualified. The issue of depreciation is also raised, which is recognised only in health and social protection. The questions raised, open dilemmas, were answered by representatives of the Ministry of Health. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee drafted and adopted two amendments, namely the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to introduce a new Article 1a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended bill, which is still under consideration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Germič, the position of the LDS Club will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1994-2011 by extending its validity until 2015. At the parliamentary club, we support the extension of the law until 2015 and we also support the reasons given by the applicant why it would be useful to extend the validity of this law for the next four years. We therefore support the decision that the funds earmarked for investments in public health establishments that are not spent in the current year are kept in the Ministry of Health’s special account, since this is the only way that certain investments that are not completed in a given year can continue in the coming years. And here we find it highly justified that the Ministry or Government is justifying the extension of this law by also taking care of the efficient implementation of investments and the economic use of public money. Here in the LDS, we point out that past experience shows, of course, that these principles have always not been achieved, because the type of investment is that they have been taking too long, that at the time of the start of the investment, there was a redesignation and, of course, a substantial overrun of the investment value, as set out for a specific project at the start of the construction. That is why we have also pointed out on the Committee that there are very important elements missing from the explanation of this law, which would give more guarantees that the objectives set will also be achieved. In particular, we missed a more extensive explanation of the dynamics and the level of the funds collected and how the dynamics of spending over the next four years, that is, by 2015, since it was important to note that the bad past practice should not be repeated enough. This calls on the Ministry of Health to ensure that investments that have been successfully completed within the time limit for those investments that will start during this period and which are also expected to be completed during this period are successfully carried out in such a way that, after the start of a given investment, there will be delays due to the redesigns that on the one hand require additional financial resources and, on the other hand, these investments are taking place for a substantial length of time, as it would have been necessary to complete a certain investment from the beginning to the end, as proposals, that is to say, investments that take place too long with new knowledge, with the new development of technology, establish new criteria and then change the financial design of these funds. Of course, we also remind the Ministry of Health that this account would not be needed if the implementation of investments were in line with the programme, because in this way the planned funds would be spent in full in a given year and in the next financial year they could actually continue to invest on the basis of the funds that would be raised in the next financial year. However, we also agree with proposals and reflection that the Ministry is not the same and is not the right address to make investments. In particular, the Ministry should carry out a strategic and supervisory function in the planning of investments and then supervision in the implementation of investments, while investments should be left to individual public health institutions which should ensure that the investment is carried out effectively in accordance with the investment plan. As I have said, in the parliamentary club, we will support the bill with the desire that the plans identified in the National Development Programme will also be implemented in accordance with the programme during this four-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u46	We will also support this bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We will not miss the opportunity to list some critical objects related to the law and the material that has been prepared. The first thing that falls into your eyes is that marriage doesn't bring anything new. Is it questionable whether, after all these health problems, either as far as investment is concerned or as far as other programmes are concerned, we really don't need anything new right now? Can we be content simply with the fact that the old one, who cannot be cocked with great success, is merely prolonged? The other is the specialty of this law. The law is, in a way, special - it speaks of specificities and special health conditions and it speaks of a special account that is actually a key, which is open to the Ministry of Finance. Seventeen years ago, this specialty, which we have never tried to change, never modernise, never fix, even though we know that in some segments this specialty has also had negative effects, for example, because it collects part of the depreciation in other public institutions and centralises it in one place, which undermines the economic power of those public institutions to which this amortisation or part of the depreciation is collected. The third question that comes to us is, where are we going to go if we solve all the problems we have with special accounts? If we do this also in the area of child protection, where there is now a shortage of premises, after we have adopted a law that allows free protection to another child and has begun to lack space. Where will we go if we solve all the problems in education, in sports, in culture? Where are we going to go if we solve all of those stalled national programmes, such as the national housing supply programme or the national energy programme, where what we've set up and recorded in programmes and resolutions is almost not being realized? Therefore, the Government itself or the proposer notes that this method: "has not been effective, not successful and not economical". That's what I'm quoting from the material. And I quote further: "Therefore the government finds that, despite the high investment costs, they do not achieve the expected effects and do not solve in the long term: first, effective and rational implementation of the programmes" - Then why do we prolong this if it does not guarantee efficiency and rationality?, "Energy efficiency, so that we do not provide architecturally optimal solutions" and even a number of other weaknesses are listed by the government itself, but in this paper they do not get an alternative in terms of presenting a different way of solving existing health problems. And if we are not solving anything, then what does this law solve, or this extension, of one model for another four years? It only ensures that some amorphous mass of funds will be collected, where relatively independent will also be shared relative to my judgment untransparent, because we do not have a financial plan. The financial plan for the period 2004 to 2011 was presented and adopted on the euro precisely, although it was more than €300 million, but now we have nothing in front of us, and we do not know how much of the amortisation will come from the individual institutions, how much will come from the gifts, from the elections. And as long as this is based on our ambition to remedy the state of the facilities and equipment in health care, these are for us considerable nebulosies, quite incomprehensible and we give our voice of support only because of the fact that we do not yet have what we have purely collapsed. Otherwise, we believe that we need rapid change rather than prolonging old practice, which cannot be done with the example of good practices.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The initial law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted in 1994 as we have heard many times today and this matter or the established law is in force by 2011, so we have completed it three times in the meantime. The law has its positive effects from the very beginning, since it would probably not be complemented three times and in its three-fold additions it also has new premises, new infrastructure and, of course, the only goal and purpose of doing health services for our citizens is not least to do better. The funds for investment are in accordance with the provisions of the law: State budget funds, part of the depreciation of public health establishments, means of sale and distribution of real estate, gifts, elections and other means of purpose. Therefore, the extension of that law is also a necessary instrument for the completion of ongoing investment projects. At the same time, we have heard, both on the Committee and on other decision-making points, that, in order to complete the investment projects that the Ministry of Health is in the process of ensuring that all work and projects will be completed by 2015, and thus by 2015, when we will no longer need the law. Personally, I find it hard to believe, but let's be surprised. If I review the content, which my predecessor mentioned last time, to other areas, I can say that we have such laws and complements in the area of culture, whose activity or, last but not least, the implementation of the Cultural Tolar and Euro Act, we know from 1999 that has solved certain matters, but not as effectively as the owners imagined, the administrators of not least immovable monuments. And the aim of this law, which we have before us, is to ensure that investment in public health institutions is financed on national development programmes that will be launched or started in 2011 until 2015. This law has its full support from the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, as well as from the Ministry of Finance. The year was very receptive to the law on the grounds that the funds were not used rationally and purposefully, and therefore the original Ministry of Finance was also very resilient in its thinking and support. On the one hand, it is difficult to understand the views of the Ministry of Finance, which is intended not only to ultimately be strategically oriented and to have an insight into the use and investment of state resources, but to invest in very spent, pre-diving, we can say, archaic, many-timely used health infrastructure, it is not least an investment in it, helping people, helping all generations who know that they are getting older or older each year, and who, last but not least, need a service and a good apparatus, and it will be even more visible in the future. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance, which at the end of the day has only given its position not to oppose all its arguments, has agreed to support. In the parliamentary group, we fully support the amendment of the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and thus ensure a stable system of financing investments in public institutions, their buildings and equipment in the future. Of course, with the sole and sole aim - to serve and provide quality health services to our people. Finally, it should be stressed, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned, that ad hoc amendments to the law are not, but are investments in which the Republic of Slovenia is committed, as they are defined in national development programmes. Of course, in the SD Group, we believe in the work of the Ministry of Health’s professional services, as well as in the management of national health institutions, which will also continue to invest in the future in its approach, its expertise with its responsibility to public funds, so that those entities can reject the thought of non-rational, unprofitable spending of public funds by taxpayers. The SD Group also supports the amendment while at the same time taking the initiative of the Ministry of Health to consider the possibility of ensuring the collection of funds in a different way in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Given the many concerns of the coalition, one would expect us to deal with a better law today, more comprehensive and, of course, more efficient. For in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is not enough funds to invest in health infrastructure. This law also has only one substantive article, which is not unusual for this government to have only one article in Parliament. Nevertheless, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is a law that extends until 2015. Otherwise, this law was adopted in such a text as early as 1994. Since the entry into force of this Act, to date, minimal but positive effects may be detected in the implementation of investments in public health institutions. With the help of this law, according to the Ministry of Health, approximately €60 million has been raised so far, which has been invested back in building and complementing and adapting health capacities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that in this mandate, resources in the state budget for investments in health infrastructure have always been drastically reduced, as we often witness unsustainable conditions in many health institutions, the Oncology Institute, the Clinical Centre, hospitals throughout Slovenia and other health institutions, for patients and also for staff who often work in unsustainable conditions. That is why the extension of this law is so important that at least in this way something, or at least a few, is gathered, but at least a few of these funds. On average, between €7m and €8m a year, according to the Ministry of Health. A lot too little in terms of needs. But at least something. Better this than nothing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the money that we taxpayers should give to Greece and the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank should rather be earmarked for our health care. As I have already mentioned, there are many problems with poor infrastructure, long-term appliances, poor working conditions. Here, however, money is provided for institutions that pay high rewards, which pay high regressions, but of course money is easily spent. That money's basically going to shit. As I have already said, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In doing so, however, we call on the Minister of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to devote significantly more resources to our patients and health personnel in the coming years, including from the state budget. We are convinced that, of course, this money deserves this very category of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In 1994, the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted until the end of 2011, when the investments were to be completed. According to the Ministry, there are positive effects in the implementation of these investments, as a special account has been created where investment funds are collected separately from other budgetary resources. The resources for these investments are: State budget resources, part of the depreciation of public health establishments, assets from sale and rental of real estates that the public health institution does not need to carry out its activities, gifts, elections and other earmarked funds, receipts from the funds allocated by private law persons to public health investments. As stated in the reasons for the adoption of the law, the recognised depreciation at the cost of health services will increase accordingly following the expiry of the 2009 financial sustainability measures, which will also be reflected in the amount of the funds collected for the implementation of the investments. All such funds have actually made it possible to finance investments, irrespective of the end of each financial year, and most importantly, precisely because of the investments being made or they have already started or are in the completion phase, that model should be maintained by 2015. In short, the main objective of these changes is to continue to provide funding for investments in public health institutions covered by national development programmes that have started or have already begun or are being concluded in the period 2011-2015. While the issue of viability was clearly raised in the debate on the labour market, or the usefulness of financing investments in the manner defined in the national development programme, it is clear that the country has the majority of its investment potentials, which are designed to modernise the health infrastructure, aimed at a costly renewal of existing old buildings or new buildings, as a result of existing obsolete and technologically unreasonably organised facilities. Therefore, despite the high investment costs, they do not achieve the expected effects. In the Zares Group, we therefore reiterate in this context the importance of building a health network and with it standards and standards that will be based on a different approach to implementing investments in health infrastructure; or in the form of so-called typical hospitals, including nursing hospitals, which will replace obsolete facilities. The latter may, however, become facilities that will, at least to a minimum, satisfy demographic changes and related different services in the area of long-term care. In the Group of Members, we will really support the bill in the hope and expectation that a comprehensive upgrade or reform of the existing situation will begin immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So it's a kind of national programme, I think it's been in place since 1994, which knows a particular system of fundraising, which is not exactly a practice elsewhere, or some national programmes, or some national programmes, which have had this method of fundraising, whatever was already established at the beginning, somehow dissolved or completely transformed. By assessing that this fund is, this way, that it works. And what is most important in this law is to extend the time frame for the implementation of these investments, that is understandable in this economic situation, but the fact that investments continue is good, not only for the health sector that urgently needs these investments, especially for the people, the most vulnerable, the most necessary categories, these are patients and, of course, the elderly on average. I'm sure our economy also needs investment. I am always trying to stress this everywhere, in all areas. I think it's the investments that will help us recover or recover our economic stagnation. But unfortunately, we're getting close to a rebalance that's definitely not going this way, at least after the knowledge that comes into the public no. Therefore, several times they have been indicated that I will not say an affair regarding the implementation of individual investments, but this is also, of course, my constant, unchanging opinion that the contracting authority is primarily responsible for the correct management of the investment. Usually, the finger points to operators, but the contracting authority is responsible for carrying out all investments, whatever. It is not only the contractor who tries to legitimately carry out an expertly correct project to the end, but, above all, he also wants to earn money from each project. After all, he pays taxes, pays his employees, his subcontractors, etc. So I know where the responsibility is and hope or hope that this awareness is the responsibility or that this investment management is getting better, including in the area of health. Thus, in view of the situation which is and given that we still have some of the necessary investments to make in a number of obsolete health institutions throughout Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u56	Mr President, honourable Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law extending the validity of the existing Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1994 to 2011. This is extended until 2015. This is a very short but very important law, allowing the completion of investments and investments that are in the phase of completion by 2015. In our parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a law in view of the urgent need to provide funding for investments in public health institutions covered by national programmes, development programmes that will start or start or end during the period 2011-2015. In the Group, we estimate that the way in which funds are collected separately in a special account is appropriate until, as planned, financial resources for the implementation of investments are defined differently, i.e. in the Systemic Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. As a priority investment, initial investments in the emergency department of the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana as well as the emergency centres elsewhere in Slovenia are now considered: adaptation of facilities in the hospital Celje and construction of the oncology department within the University Clinical Centre Maribor. Here, however, I would like to express the concern of Members of our parliamentary group regarding the announced government austerity measures at the beginning and in the future of the envisaged investment in health. The effect of the rebalancing will only be seen after its implementation, but a significant intervention in the implementation of investments is expected in 2011, as approximately half of the budget is expected to fall from the available total. However, the negative impact on the implementation of investments in 2011 will be less intense than it would otherwise have been due to the collection of investment funds. This year, some 30 million euros are still available in this special account, which will allow for less distortions in the implementation of the investments already started. We know that the situation in some of the key public health institutions, such as the emergency section of the Ljubljana Clinic, is already critical for both patients and employees, and we support the early completion of the planned or already started updates in our group. However, with regard to the planned rebalancing that we are expecting, I should also say that we should not neglect all other investments in Slovenia, especially the emergency centres. In doing so, it seems to me that there will certainly be some delay in all these investments. In doing so, I think it is very important that the set-up of the Emergency Medical Centres Project Committee really closely monitors the situation throughout Slovenia, as we know that we have a different situation with regard to emergency centres in 2011. Some have already obtained building permits and some have not even begun documentation. Monitoring and distribution of these funds, which will certainly fall, would therefore be very important. As I said, in our Group of Members, we will adopt a proposal for a novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Public Health Institutions Investment Act, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, are in fact less difficult for the period 1994-2011 - it is only a matter of extension and it is therefore justified to adopt the short-term procedure. In the framework of the objectives of the law, it is certainly necessary to continue to provide funding for investments in public health institutions under national development programmes. As the fact is that a number of investments will be concluded in the period 2011-2015, i.e. during the period of extension of the law. Specifically, it is a matter of ensuring stable financing of investments in buildings and equipment, and the proposal does not specifically show provisions relating to the financing of the maintenance of certain health equipment. The content of the law also provides for a special account at the Ministry of Health where funds are acquired separately from other budgetary resources. There's nothing more to say about that. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we support the bill in question and, as I have heard, there is consensus in all other parliamentary groups. On this occasion, however, let me mention the issue of financing the maintenance of medical equipment. Due to inadequate cuts and savings in maintenance resources, there are many cases in public health care institutions, hospitals, health care homes, and the failure to comply with sanitary requirements. There is insufficient servicing of surgical equipment, devices where manufacturers require certain time maintenance and servicing. The management of health care agencies has been ignoring these regulations, all with a view to cutting and saving money. Their approach is many times earlier of managerial nature. I mean, first of all, I have different equipment. It's expensive equipment, it's big maintenance tools like sterilizers, computer-controlled surgical equipment, radiological devices, surgical lasers, anaesthetic devices, not to mention further. And because of the failure to comply with these rules, several Slovenians and Slovenians may die a year for various reasons: sepsis, infections, inflammation. Finally, material nature also has consequences when such poorly maintained and serviced devices need to be maintained as a matter of urgency. It would seem interesting to read some analysis of the pathological conclusions, findings of how many Slovenes and Slovenes died from sepsis and how much this could be associated with inadequate maintenance and financing of such equipment. A specific case I've heard of, a sterilizer hasn't been serviced in 15 years. The surgeon cannot know or better if his knife or his preparations for surgery are actually sterile. It deals with the patient’s history and diagnosis, with surgery itself, but cannot actually monitor and control one prescribed maintenance of such and similar devices. So it's just someone else's responsibility, but it's not just surgical knives or needles, mate, it can be technologically sophisticated equipment that needs to be adjusted and serviced by authorized experts, let's say laser surgical devices in eye surgery and so on. This also shows unnecessary cuts in resources and, according to the local authorities, a trip to the patient's safety account. And that, Mr Secretary of State, by the way, is in your mind, because, as a primacy of Dr., you are well concerned that such cases are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. As no amendment has been tabled to the amended law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the time of the day's work, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law of the sea in the framework of a shorter procedure. The application of the law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u60	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The main reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code is the comprehensive transposition of the third maritime package of maritime safety measures, so-called Erika Three, which was adopted within the framework of the European Union in 2009. The amendments to the Maritime Code last year did not transpose all the directives. The proposal for this law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a directive governing the investigation of maritime accidents and a directive on the compliance of ships with the requirements of the flag State. The deadline for the transposition of both Directives was 17 June 2011, and the proposed amendments and additions to the Maritime Code should therefore be urgently adopted. In addition to these changes, there has been a need in practice for other minor changes necessary to ensure the safety of navigation, namely: the equipment of tractors in the mandatory towing and pilot vessels in the mandatory towing system with a system of automatic identification of vessels, allowing better control of the safety of navigation. Furthermore, the area of port charges, where the Minister will be responsible for maritime affairs, shall give consent to port charges for public economic services provided by the Republic of Slovenia, maritime education and training, where more effective controls are provided to achieve the minimum level of knowledge that seafarers must have, the provision of necessary works in the public interest at the time of the strike for port workers, port supervisors and maritime inspectors, more detailed rules for the award of the status of society in the field of maritime interest and the correction of conventions, in particular the establishment of a material basis and a violation. In addition, some minor editorial corrections have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Transport Committee. At its 16th meeting, on 29 June 2011, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which was sent by the Government to the National Assembly with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the Government said that the main reason for amending and supplementing the Maritime Code is the transposition of European directives, including into our legal order. In addition, the need for other minor amendments to the Code, which relate mainly to maritime safety, has also been demonstrated in practice. In particular, it is the equipment of tractors and flat vessels between the mandatory dress and the pilotage of the automatic vessel identification system. It also showed the need to regulate port charges and also the need for maritime or maritime education and training of seafarers. Well, a very important chapter is also the provision of necessary works in the public interest, for example at the time of the strike for port workers, port supervisors and maritime inspectors. More detailed legislation also lays down rules for the granting of the status of societies in the public interest. All of these chapters were presented by a government representative in an introductory explanation. The Legislative and Legal Service has also reviewed the proposal for a law, made comments relating mainly to inconsistencies in the equipment of vessels, and assessed that the chapter of charges relating to services of the public sector is somewhat under-explanatory. In the debate, which was the most extensive at the time of Article 7, supplementing Article 56 of the Maritime Code and relating to port charges, it was mainly pointed out that there would be a high rise in port charges on the coast, which could be a particular problem. In view of the fact that the Minister of Transport had the power to agree to these fees in the past period, this was a kind of safeguard that did not result in too rapid and too high charges, and the problem is that it was the original task of the municipalities. The agreement of the Minister of Transport is controversial because it is not an area directly covered by the Ministry of Transport. This dilemma, with regard to the competence of who can determine the level of fees, was the most extensive and, in the end, it was also somehow found that this original task should be left to the congregations and that they would also take responsibility if these port charges were too high. There was also much debate in the investigation of accidents, namely, the Code provides that the Republic of Slovenia or the Government may conclude an agreement in this case with the Member State of the European Union, with which they will then review individual accidents. The view was expressed that we should carry out such accidents with our own staff in Slovenia, and the fact is that in Slovenia we have only two experts who are qualified to investigate accidents, so it is such a solution that we can connect or conclude an agreement with the Member State of the European Union with the most appropriate solution. The Committee adopted all amendments to SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS; it did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group of Members, and the Committee also adopted some of its amendments. After discussion on the individual articles of the bill and after discussion and vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Alojz Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! We will support the proposal of the Maritime Code in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. As we have heard from the introductory explanation of the representative of the Ministry and the Chairman of the Transport Committee, several directives have been adopted within the framework of the European Community in 2009 to be transposed into our Maritime Code. In doing so, most of the changes relate to the area governing the investigation of maritime accidents and to the area governing the compliance of the ship with the requirements of the flag State. In addition to this transfer of the acquis into our legislation, there have also been several shortcomings in the implementation of the existing Maritime Code, which the proposal seeks to amend or remedy. These changes are mainly in ensuring greater safety in maritime transport, namely in the implementation of pilotage and ship tow, in the education and training of seafarers, in the provision of essential works of public interest at the time of the strike, in the determination of port charges and in other minor corrections brought by this amendment to the law. We will therefore support the law, as a whole, as well as all the amendments adopted by the Home Committee, which further improve the basic proposal of the Maritime Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you for your words, Mr President, and a beautiful day for all, the Secretary of State, the co-workers and all colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. With regard to this law, the so-called third maritime package - Erika III - was adopted as a basis for 2009 within the European Union, a legislative package of the European Union containing 6 directives from which the Directive on compliance with the requirements of the flag State and the Directive laying down the basic principles for investigating maritime accidents should be fully transposed. Therefore, the transposition of these acts is the main reason for the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, as well as the identified shortcomings that need to be addressed so that there are no adverse consequences for maritime safety such as: ensuring greater control over the implementation of the pilotage and tow, providing emergency maritime work in the public interest during the strike and overseeing marine education and training programmes. The draft law also lays down more detailed rules for granting company status in the field of maritime public interest. It is envisaged that an automatic identification system, so-called AIS device, should be used between the mandatory towing and the pilotage. In the port of Cyprus there are currently four tractors and one pilot boat; of these, two tractors already have this AIS device installed. As a maritime safety authority, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Maritime Code on the basis of analysis of maritime accidents and findings of infringements of the mandatory towing and pilotage regulation, namely that drivers and pilot vessels are required to use the AIS device to improve the safety of navigation. In the area of port charges providing for the financing of an economic public service for the regular maintenance of port infrastructure intended for public transport, it is clear that the Minister responsible for maritime transport gives consent to port charges for economic public service only for the one provided by the State. In the case of economic public services provided by municipalities, these must take account of the actual costs of providing this public service at a certain level. Therefore, the idea was, of course, to return with the amendment the Minister of Transport's consent to a certain amount of charges in municipal ports, pointless and unnecessary. The new Chapter on the investigation of maritime accidents introduces basic legal bases in accordance with the Directive laying down basic principles for the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending this Directive. Under the current maritime disaster legislation, maritime inspectors are investigating us because the directive explicitly requires investigators to be independent and independent and must not carry out any other tasks that may affect their independence in the investigation of maritime accidents, a different systemic solution has to be found. In fact, this means that investigators should not carry out any administrative or regulatory tasks, i.e. neither should inspections. After the current statistics on maritime accidents, which the Republic of Slovenia should provide for investigation, there is less than one accident per year. It would be irrational to hire an investigator who should not carry out other tasks. A little joke, I think it'd be nice to have a job like that, no. The bill therefore provides for the possibility of investigating maritime accidents through investigators from another EU Member State with which the Republic of Slovenia would have an agreement. Such a solution was also supported by the European Commission, which was consulted by the Ministry of Transport in the drafting process. The Group of Social Democrats notes that the changes and additions to the Maritime Code are meaningful, necessary and will therefore support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u67	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. We have carefully examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, which follows a reduced procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In this regard, we have also proposed some amendments to the Group of Members, which, unfortunately, as many or almost all have not received the necessary majority and remain just a dead letter on paper, although we wanted to improve the content proposed by the Government with the contents. As it is said, the amendments apply to the content of the European Directive of the third package of legislative measures on safety of navigation, in particular to the area under which the flag sails, and also to the content, refer to the area of investigation of maritime accidents, which requires special experts, so-called independent experts, and we can also educate these experts in the Republic of Slovenia, since we finally have a college bearing the same title - the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. The SDS Group is particularly disturbed by the fact, as is the case with many other content, that, taking into account and introducing the necessary content required by the European directives, certain options and opportunities are exploited and some other changes are introduced, which are not so necessary and are not necessary, but, above all, they do not meet the conditions to be addressed in a reduced procedure. This is mainly about port charges, it's about interest associations, it's about acting on sentences and so on and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we were of the opinion that, by deleting the 200th Article, we could help avoid additional costs in investigating maritime accidents, where we could benefit from our own knowledge. Since, of course, the content of the law was carried out following a reduced procedure, the applicant did not make use of all the professional references in order to obtain the opinion of the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport, which started this study year with some content, where such experts could also be trained to investigate such accidents with all the necessary references. As far as we have the data, Slovenia is now over two such experts. After the statistics on maritime accidents, however, it can be found that there are only one per year, but at the moment we have two such experts who could be included as independent investigators, which would, of course, save some resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia that could be used and allocated to the education or training of these experts. The fact is that in the event that the Republic of Slovenia or the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia calls on experts from other members to assist in such an emergency, for which it must also have prior arrangements and probably some agreements signed. At that point, there are costs that are not so small, and in fact, the costs in the proposal to justify the content are not to be traced anywhere. Of course, it is a high cost, and this could be avoided by first educating these experts at home - we have sufficient knowledge and experience in this area as well. We are in the parliamentary group because our proposals for amendments have not been heard, and we feel that we will not confirm such content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u69	Mr Franco Juri has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague. In the Group of Members, we really support, in principle, the amendments to the Maritime Code, which form part of the implementation of the European directives on safety, disaster prevention and certain aspects that urgently need to be regulated in this area. At the same time, we believe that this is another lost opportunity. First of all, in ensuring safety of operation and navigation, we could consistently follow the spirit of the directives of the European Union and reintroduce what we deleted from the Maritime Code in 2003; this is a ban on navigation for nuclear-powered and nuclear-weapon-powered military ships. I do not understand why, in this mandate, we have not mastered this mental shift and taken advantage of the spirit, the positive spirit of the European Union directive, which increases the safety of operation within our ports and re-entered the article that we deleted in 2003 because of NATO's order. As you know, and as has been said, the main debate was on Article 7, which substantially interferes with and amends Article 56 of the Maritime Code and practically deletes the fuse which gave the Ministry of Transport the power to limit the increase in fees or charges of bonds at the level of municipal bonds, of course. As it was found, whether it is clear or not, this has also been discussed by the Committee on Local Self-Government, whether it is delegated or the original tasks of the municipalities. And this ambiguity exists until we know clearly whether it is the original or delegated task of the municipalities, it would be good to keep this fuse, because otherwise the users of the attachments will be exposed to the will of the two authorities or two decisions - the municipal and the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Ministry of Transport referred to the fact that prices are formed on the basis of the powers of the Ministry of the Environment, this is true and prices have increased because of what is seven times eight times. End-users, i.e. citizens, nationals who use the preferences that are within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, are most affected by this. Let us be aware of this, and it is a category that is not very important, but is important because of the specificity and specificity of our three coastal municipalities: Koper, Izola and Piran, where small fishermen and other citizens are now on the brink of arbitrary decision-making on one side of the environmental ministry, on the other hand, the municipalities. Therefore, we believe that it would be better if this fuse were kept at least temporarily until the law defined how prices or fees should be developed. From all the above, in the Group of Members, we will really define ourselves to this law by our own discretion, and we will also listen to the arguments that speak in favour of this or another solution until the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u71	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u72	Respectable present. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support amendments and additions to the Maritime Code following a reduced procedure relating to the implementation of the third package of maritime legislation on safety in navigation, which regulate the investigation of maritime accidents and the flag State Compliance Directive, as the deadline for adoption has already expired in June. The regulation of the status of societies in the public interest in this area, the provision of essential works during the time of the port workers' strike, is also regulated in more detail by the provision of more effective control over the minimum level of knowledge of seafarers. The adopted supplements to the bill have addressed irregularities and inconsistencies and miswritten provisions to which our Law-Legal Service has pointed. The Minister of Transport has already explained on the Home Committee that under the new European legislation, the State must ensure independent investigation of accidents, which Slovenia is unable to provide at this time, according to the Minister. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expect to include all our experts first, because we do not believe that we have only two. We are of the opinion that in the event of maritime accidents it is certainly wiser to trust their experts who can carry out such investigations with credibility. In our country, at the University of Ljubljana at the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport, we have already trained experts and also a simulator where these staff can be further educated in this field. This Faculty has an accredited programme with the subject International Maritime Safety System and the subject of Marine Accident Investigation. A new habilitation area of Traffic Safety was also adopted. In addition, additional education is currently under way with experienced domestic and foreign experts at the International Marine Surveying Institute. With regard to charging port charges, we certainly believe that we have to trust the municipalities not to overstate them with new overpriced prices, as they need to take into account, in a new way, that the amount of port charges for the economic public service of the regular maintenance of port infrastructure must reflect the actual costs of carrying out this public service. It is true that this is a very loose criterion, but in this case we are on the side of the municipalities, as they always take into account the real potential of both sides in price setting, including in other areas of operation. It is also true that it would be good to consider whether a methodology or criteria should be established to determine the level of port charges, so that there will be no undue differences between the congregation and the congregation. We also support the amendment of colleagues to have the government adopt appropriate sub-laws within half a year, because it is not clear why it takes a year to do so and it seems to us that it is a fully reasonable period of six months for the implementation and implementation of these minor amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u73	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law of the Sea. It transposes into the Slovenian legal order the directives of the so-called third maritime package of legal measures on safety of navigation, which were not the subject of the last novelty of the Maritime Code. In particular, it is a directive regulating the investigation of maritime accidents and a Directive on the compliance of ships with the requirements of the flag State whose deadline for transposition has expired 17. 6. 2011. In practice, there has also been a need for other minor but urgently needed changes to ensure safety of navigation. In this way, the law provides, inter alia, for the mandatory equipment of towing drivers and pilot vessels in the mandatory flight crew by means of a system for the automatic identification of vessels. More effective controls are also envisaged to achieve the minimum level of knowledge that seafarers must have, taking into account warnings from European inspections. Provision of necessary works in the public interest at the time of the strike for port workers, port supervisors and maritime inspectors, more detailed rules for the award of the status of companies in the public interest in the field of maritime affairs, material basis for offences and some minor editorial corrections. The most important changes concern the area governing the investigation of maritime accidents and the area covering the compliance of ships with the requirements of the flag State. We have devoted much debate to Article 7 of the proposal, which amends and complements Article 56 of the Maritime Code. The amendment no longer requires the Minister's consent to the port charges prior to their publication. This raised the fear that the prices of port charges would increase substantially if the article was adopted in the text as proposed, as local communities would be left to their will. An amendment was therefore adopted to add a new third paragraph of Article 56, which regulates the level of port charges for the economic public service of the regular maintenance of port infrastructure intended for public transport provided by the local community. As has already been said, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a novel of the Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u75	The word is "ma'am mag." Sara Wheeler, on behalf of the SNS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members. According to the applicant, the draft law introduces less difficult changes and additions in the field of pilotage and towing with a view to enhancing maritime transport safety in ports. It also lays down the legal basis for transposition of directives and for compliance with international conventions. If we read in detail the opinion of the legislative service, we find that this is not a minor change with the left hand. As usual, the law shall be adopted on short notice. It would be nice for Parliament to have the opportunity and honour to process and adopt quality laws that do not veto or fall in the Constitutional Court because of the hand-to-hand adoption. And something similar is happening to us with the Law of the Sea. We have overlooked whether it was precisely the intention of the proposer to add a new Article 3a in the law, which provides for the founder of a society in public interest. That article gives the Minister discretion and a monopoly to decide only on the status of society in the public interest. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we consider and point out that there is no reason for such powers to be given to the Minister, as an administrative authority in the Maritime Code. The second is the content of free legal aid. You used to call this lawyer a law-abiding writing that was even incriminating, and now it's gone. Most of the talks on the seventh article of the amendment and the addition of the law in question were on the working body. It is an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 56 of the existing law, which originally provides that the Minister shall give consent to the port charges before their publication. With the existing dictatorship, it was meant for ports in state and local jurisdiction or municipal jurisdiction. The amendment, however, reduces only the fees for ports within the state framework by explaining that they are at local level the original competences of the municipalities themselves and that the State must not interfere in this area. And so there was a case where the amount of the utility fee increased by a few hundred times. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are convinced that it would be only right for the Ministry of Environment and Space to adopt a regulation on maximum prices for such fees as it has done in the field of municipal services, since it is only in this way that we can protect the interests of the population. On the basis of all the above, we will not support amendments to the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u77	Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the government, fellow Member and fellow Members. The Maritime Administration is one of the oldest and most extensive legal areas in all. For Slovenia, as a legal country in which maritime legal relations exist, it is essential that it has a thoroughly regulated and updated legal area covering both administrative organisational work and rules on contractual and compensation relations relating to maritime navigation. The valid Maritime Code was adopted in March 2001 after many years of preparation and essentially the regulation of maritime legal relations was Slovenian because we did not have the Slovenian Maritime Code until then. So far, the Codex of the Sea has been amended four times and supplemented, last fall. This is not unusual, as maritime law is highly internationalised. Its historical and current development is characterised by the fact that international conventions and other forms of international unification are often created before national laws. Today, in essence, the entire area of maritime law is covered by international, either interstate or autonomous rules. Therefore, Slovenian legislation must also adapt and comply with all the international conventions and other acts binding on Slovenia, as well as those sources which are widely used at international level. The proposed novel is one of such adaptations to the Maritime Code. In 2009, the so-called third maritime package, which covers six directives or two regulations, was adopted within the framework of the European Union. The transposition of the remaining two directives, the other acts being mostly transposed last autumn, is the main reason for this time and for the amendments to the Maritime Code. Another reason is to ensure the implementation of the existing international conventions ratified by our country. In addition to the transposition of the directive governing the investigation of maritime accidents and the Directive on the compliance of ships with the requirements of the flag State, we would like to highlight in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia the two innovations brought by the proposed novels of the Code of Sea. The proposed amendments and additions will provide greater control over the execution of the pilotage and tow and will ensure the performance of the necessary works of public interest at the time of the strike. This time, urgent work will have to be done by both port workers, port supervisors and, of course, maritime inspectors. Since the success of our common future depends mainly on our knowledge and innovation, it should also be pointed out that the novelty in maritime education and training provides for more effective controls to achieve the minimum level of knowledge that seafarers must have. And our position on the only substantive dilemma and discussion on the parent's working body. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we object to an arrangement whereby the Minister responsible for transport would issue an agreement on fees that ensure the smooth provision of economic public service services, the regular maintenance of port infrastructure provided by the local community. This is the original competence of the local community and the Minister's consent to these fees is unnecessary, non-systemic and constitutes a great lack of trust for local communities. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that the problems of the price of water reimbursement and the associated fees for the municipal economic public service of regular maintenance of port infrastructure cannot be solved by a maritime code. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u79	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SD, LDS and Zares parliamentary groups and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. As has already been said in the presentation of the position of the SDS Group, we have just tabled an amendment to Article 18, which in some way improves the situation, especially when it comes to the actual use and use of domestic, own knowledge, and thus contributes to a more rational use of budgetary resources. And if our proposal is insufficiently substantiated from this title, then we rightly ask ourselves what else we should write in order for those who reject this content of our proposal to understand that we want and want only good. But I am afraid that, like all other good proposals, this proposal will also come across a deaf ear and will, in other words, be ignored without anyone taking a deep look at the content of the proposal, which, I stress once again, is good and rational. What's this all about? It is true that statistics show that there are few maritime accidents in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a statistical information that says that an average of one such accident occurs a year. As far as we have data, the Republic of Slovenia in this area is overtaken by two experts. What seems much more important to us is that it is right to take into account that we are right in our small maritime, coastal state also within the framework of the University of Ljubljana Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. And in the past, as well as in the present tense, in this specific maritime field, when it comes to disaster investigation experts, the content that actually enables the product of its own knowledge and provides experts as envisaged by the proposal has been prepared. For this reason, we expected the applicant to take this proposal into account in the consideration of the working body, because we felt that the proposal was well founded. Of course, we have also asked certain people who are well - acquainted and who have helped us to do so. We checked that out. What lies ahead is the fact that the government and, as a result, the coalition in the National Assembly decide on the content of a proposal which will be dealt with in the short term, often causes damage. In particular, it was clear that the Minister of Transport was on the committee when it was reviewing the proposal for our amendment, trying to obtain further information. Obviously, there is not enough time for the content of the proposal to be dealt with following a reduced procedure, and it is difficult at this time to gain and ask the opinion of many independent experts or experts who are aware of the contents of the proposal to assist the bill in this regard, as proposed. And it was clear here that not all the options and opportunities that the applicant has at his disposal to directly from, the University of Ljubljana or the Faculty of Maritime and Transport have also acquired certain professional foundations. Why is he actually going? Does the Republic of Slovenia really need to take advantage of such experts and conclude certain agreements in this regard? As a result, this also means paying and providing financial resources coming from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for those experts who are not so cheap. And what was also questionable to us and we missed, and still this information is not, how much does such an expert cost? What does this mean at the annual level if we have statistics on one such maritime accident, where such an investigation is being conducted, how much does it cost? And if we have two such experts in the Republic of Slovenia this moment would probably be enough if we had the availability and review of how much it costs. Thus, we are left without this information and it is questionable what amount is involved here or what means, or whether the funds that the Republic of Slovenia gives to an independent authority outside Slovenia for this purpose exceed the amount that is sufficient for such an expert in the Republic of Slovenia to function, and it is likely that there are still some resources available for additional training. This would also fill the available capacity of the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. Finally, certain simulators and other means available for education are used to complement experts. After all, this university is also linked to many other universities within the European Union. And this is about taking account of these facts, which are not just as many people might think that they are just some of our beautiful desires, which are not realistic in practice. We believe that it would be right to support the content of this amendment, which would also help in some way to rationalise the use of budgetary resources, but what is even more valuable is that, because we have all the conditions, we can also train such experts at the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport and, in this regard, we can also provide these services to any other Member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u81	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. After him, Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment is likely to have a good purpose. In any case, we would all like experts to be acquired on the basis of our knowledge, including our university or higher education institutions - the Faculty of Maritime Affairs was mentioned. We can agree on this in principle, but the fact is that, in a globalised situation and also in the functioning of the European Union's common internal market, it is somewhat anachronistic to prevent any institution from engaging foreign experts or, in this case, maritime disaster investigation experts from European Union countries if the need arises. And the fact is that with the rapid, extensive expansion of the capacity of the port of Cyprus, we are facing new circumstances that require the fullest possible cooperation of experts, regardless of their origin. The port of Cyprus becomes only a segment of the wider port environment of the northern Adriatic, which competes with northern European ports. From this point of view, the synergies between the Koreski, marketing, Venice and Reški ports are an axiom, to which we must also adapt our actions in the event of accidents. Indeed, there were not many accidents, but there were several, some of them, and some of them can be expected in view of the intense increase in cargo and shipping in our inland waters – and also to the port of Cyprus. We also carry cargoes with a certain risk through our port, and we also have silos or tanks of kerosene and other hazardous raw materials on our second pier. So if we come from this assumption it is good to equip, even in the Maritime Code, to equip our ports with a slightly more global security. Therefore, I think it makes sense for the parties of the coalition and of Zares to make this possible in the manner set out in Article 200th. I do not deny all the claims made by the proposer of the second amendment. I think the point is right that it is necessary to strengthen and train our experts, our knowledge and enable us to actually engage our investigators and our experts, even in the event of accidents. But the fact is, reality is what it is, we live in the European Union and we must not have and cultivate prejudices to cooperate and also to engage foreign experts when it comes to important issues such as security issues against accidents in our ports. We will support the amendment of the coalition in the hope that this does not prejudge, of course, is not the main theme of this Maritime Code. The dilemmas that arise have already been brought to light at the time of the presentation of the positions and are dilemmas relating to the specific interests of the inhabitants of our coastal area and coastal communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u83	Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS amendments, because it has been so clear on the Transport Committee of the country that the arguments show that this is the only solution for the country of Slovenia at this time, that it is only under these directives that the country is now obliged to ensure independent investigation of maritime accidents and that unfortunately we do not have sufficient expertise at this time. It was written down, and it was said that there were only two of them. And one of these experts, who was present at the meeting and also told all the members and members of the Committee on Transport that, if there were to be, God forbid the major disasters of Slovenia, but that he would not be able to carry out such an investigation. And that is why such an amendment is urgently needed. That is why I do not believe in the good intentions of some who, in order to save a little bit of money, would have deleted the article because I think that would be irresponsible and that all the tragedy of such an act would have been manifest only in the event of a possible maritime accident. We will support this proposal, which ensures independent investigation of maritime accidents, including to foreigners. By giving us our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u85	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. It could be understood from the explanation of the SDS amendment that we are completely excluding domestic experts in the investigation of accidents. I think it should be explained that this is not the case. Both in the text of the law and in the amendment to Article 18 tabled by the parliamentary groups, we are talking about the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to conclude an agreement with the EU Member State to investigate maritime accidents. Thus, it is possible for the State or Government to conclude an agreement and to conduct an independent investigation in the event of a maritime accident. However, given that we have these two experts in this area, there is no reason and there is no doubt that we would not be involved in this accident investigation process. Of course, I think we must all be aware that if this is a larger accident with worse consequences, of course, it is also far above, not just knowledge, but the physical ability of the two to carry out this complex investigation. However, we are talking about security in this article. We know much more about traffic safety because we face such disasters daily. We talk a lot less, maybe, about these accidents because it happens once, or not so many times a year. But if it happens, it can be very bad. Above all, it is necessary to draw lessons from these disasters, or really to produce all the necessary analyses, so that in the future something like this will never happen again, or to minimize the possibility of repeating itself. And these are the tasks and expectations of the investigation procedures of these accidents, where it is certainly very important for experts to participate in these investigations who have a lot of experience and work in other countries where traffic is much more extensive and therefore more maritime accidents. All of this will, of course, be possible if the SDS amendment, which deletes such a possibility of cooperation, is not adopted. I think that at least at this point, when we talk about security, we should be more careful whether a deletion is proposed or not. And not least, when you're talking about finance, that only the cost of this investigation is the most important or one of the most important reasons why it should be done by the locals alone, I don't think there's enough sober judgment here either. What if the cost of such an accident or a lack of investigation is enormously higher than that of an independent investigation under an agreement concluded with another member of the European Union? A whole series of questions that, of course, will be answered if experts who have experience and know this area of maritime accidents are involved or have very extensive experience in this. That is why I think it is really wrong to assume, above all, that we are making it impossible, for example, for domestic cooperation and that it will only be done by strangers and that we will only provide money to others, not for the locals. It's just not like that. This is not true because it is completely different in the law and once again I stress that it is important to ensure an independent investigation and then follow these findings in the sense that similar accidents or the possibilities of similar accidents in Slovenia are substantially reduced in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u87	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I must say that it is very unusual for me to talk all the time about the need to rationalise state administration, to save money, in particular where a very large amount of money is actually draining it, that is, the salaries of the various experts employed by the State Administration, that at one time a group of Members in the National Assembly, which has the most full mouth of excessive budget, is required to delete an article allowing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to conclude an agreement with another country in the European Union, which is qualified and also has staff trained to investigate maritime accidents. I think that we have read the explanation of the law, that it is very clear in the explanation of the law that in Slovenia, in Slovenian territorial waters, there is less than one maritime accident per year and it is actually pointless to demand that we only have to investigate maritime accidents that occur less than once a year, 100% of the employed person who will carry out these investigations, this investigation. In fact, this man must not do anything other than this under the European Union Directive, nor should he do anything private, which has anything to do with maritime law, with the implementation of maritime regulations, because this could have an impact on another activity. I think it is only rational that we can agree with Italy, which is the closest, later when Croatia will be in the European Union, including Croatia. After all, we know that we also control the register of ships through Croatian connections, I think experts, so I really don't understand where we have common sense anymore. That is why I said earlier that it would not be bad to have such a job where I would have less than once a year’s work and receive a full year’s salary. Great, I'd be right behind it. But since I am not an expert in investigating maritime accidents at sea, of course we cannot get this work in Slovenia. In particular, I might even support the amendment if I were capable of doing so, the SDS, because I might be able to compete for this job. However, there could be someone in the SDS who has qualifications who could get such a good synecure in this country on this account. By the way, I would have said something else before, when I was preparing myself for the debate or for the preparation of the Group's position, I checked something else. Intruder [[Incomprehensible]] which he had with him, but he warned of the approaching ship and only the boat went, "a fondue", as we say, but the problem is that this man must now sue for compensation. The fact is that the State does not care that private individuals who have been injured in a maritime accident will receive compensation, but in previous amendments to the Law last year of the Maritime Code, it has been established that any ship, like that in the case of car insurance, must be insured for the damage caused to third parties. And this will be supervised by our Maritime Administration from 1 January 2012 if the ship has this insurance concluded, otherwise it will not be able to enter our port. By the way, the accident that happened this year to this fisherman was caused by a ship that did not come to the port of Cyprus at all, but to the market, but our authorities immediately connected to the market, the marketing authorities stopped the ship, wrote down everything they needed, and the criminal charges were brought against the captain on our side. So I must say that our Maritime Administration actually works extremely well. It is right, however, that with the novelties that appear at the international level, because it is not only the European Union, but the whole world, which is the maritime code, I think, regulates maritime legislation, the whole world is focusing on the fact that the educational level, the safety of navigation, the equipment of ships and so on are improving, because maritime accidents are as low as possible and even if the consequences are as low as possible. That's it. Of course I'll support the marriage. I'm going to support the first amendment, and of course not the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u89	Mr. Miran Jerič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A lot's been said before, if I'm allowed just a few words. We will also support the first amendment to Article 18 in the LDS Group, not the second one, and if I may say so to Article 23 of the amendment, we will not support it. I agree with my colleague, Janko Webro, who stressed that the law clearly states that the government can conclude an agreement and an agreement, and more importantly, these investigators have no responsibility or guilt but to find the causes of a maritime accident. And if we do not have a sufficient number of these experts in Slovenia right now, I think it is good that we have this option open. And of course, I believe that this will be good in the future when we have a sufficient number of experts. See, in the event of natural and other disasters and also in the event of maritime accidents, Slovenia also helps with the assistance of the forces to protect and rescue the consequences of natural and other accidents, not only at home, but also abroad. It also helps with experts from various fields who identify the causes of accidents and, once we have the causes, we also make it easier to ensure greater security in the future by investing in that area with different measures. I am confident that this cooperation in the field of investigation will be even more in the future than it has been so far. Of course, no one wants accidents, not natural disasters at sea, but life is such that these things happen. And if they do, we must aim to identify and eliminate the causes of such an accident as soon as possible. Therefore, this amendment, which allows this possibility for the government to agree with the Member State of the European Union to include investigators from these countries in investigating the causes of the maritime accident, will be of course welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u91	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u92	Let me explain again. The directive provides that a domestic investigator may investigate a maritime accident. If it does not, use another option. That's what the directive requires. And speculation by those who aim even so far that the content of the SDS amendment is assessed by you that the amendment is proposed because we have experts from SDS at our disposal, seems a little excessive, a little excessive. However, the justification and explanation in the proposal for the amendment we tabled is sufficiently clear and we have said in explanation that the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport has resources, it also has equipment, it already has two experts at its disposal who could be involved and we would avoid giving the Government the opportunity, if our experts are not, to find them somewhere on the market within the European Union, but we have not received this information, either, for what it is actually a cost. If we don't have this expert or if we have this expert. It is also true that we have not received this information, and it seems appropriate for us to have an amendment, which we also propose to support and thus give us the opportunity to benefit from it and to help in particular the area which is primarily concerned with the training of such personnel, and above all, we have such experts in the domestic market, but if we do not have all the opportunities to acquire them or educate them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u93	Mrs. Breda Pecan, you're giving up? I note that no one wants to discuss Article 18 or these two amendments anymore, so I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Clearly there are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding this section on Article 23. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 29th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's an effigy of the law on supplements to the law on safety in rail transport after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members, with the first signed mag. France Gnyardsich. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mag. Franz Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, distinguished, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Colleagues and colleagues! Accidents at unprotected railway crossings occur relatively often. In order to reduce the number of these accidents on the railway routes, we have tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Railway Safety in the legislative process. Most accidents are caused by the fact that participants in traffic are too late or do not notice the incoming train or rolling stock at all. The aim of the law is therefore to increase the visibility of incoming vehicles with disruptive, flashing, stroboscope lights, because we believe that this may have an important impact on the increased visibility of the incoming vehicle and thus reduce the possibility of an accident. In the last 15 years, there have been 618 traffic accidents on the level crossing roads, killing 137 people across the railway line. The main part of traffic accidents occurred at unsecured level crossings of the road, marked only by the Andrei Cross, but which is surprising and worrying at the same time, 20% of traffic accidents also occurred on level crossing roads covered by prisons, semi-prisoners or lights. In 2009, there were at least 10 years of traffic accidents at the level crossings in absolute terms, but despite numerous warnings and increased preventive and repressive work, 38 accidents occurred at secure level crossings. On average, there have been good 41 accidents every year at the level crossings of the road over the last 15 years, with the number of accidents moving below 40 in the last 3 years. In 2009, the number of accidents was even below 30 for the first time during the period considered. The problem is that in the same year, despite a small number of accidents, the number of deaths increased. The characteristic of road accidents at level crossings across the railway line is a small number of injuries compared to the dead. In the last 15 years, 34% died and even 39% of all road users died on the railways in 2009. In doing so, I would like to add, on behalf of the signatories, that the number of accidents at railway and rail crossings is decreasing, but we believe that the proposed addition will certainly be a step forward towards improving transport safety, in particular at unsecured crossings, which will not be secured for many years due to high financial costs and a large number of hundreds of them. Finally, I would like to say that we are pleased that in the proposal for the amendment of the law we have been able to translate the idea transmitted by the citizen Mitja Vilar of Šmar – Sap pri Ljubljana, who is an example of a thinking citizen who is capable of thinking about new things that can help save lives and preserve human health. In us, the signatories have found those who have listened to this and are trying to improve safety on rail transport by means of this proposal to supplement the law. Finally, on behalf of the applicants, I would like to point out that we are aware of the costs that will be incurred for the contractor - Slovenian railways or municipalities when it comes to looking at the transitions, that this will be a cost, but it should be stressed that we are confident that it is far less than the value of one life itself, which would be saved in the coming years, or that the cost of treatment and disability costs will be lost on these transitions, so that savings in this regard will be greater than investment in improving the visibility of the upcoming trains. We therefore hope that the Members and Members of Parliament will support this amendment law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u95	The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jank Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! The Transport Committee considered the Railway Safety Act at its 16th session on 29 June. This is the law transmitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Žnidaršič, and the group has also proposed that we deal with the law in a reduced manner. The representative of the panel presented the law and said that the law had been tabled in order to reduce the number of accidents on railway routes, particularly those at lower speeds. This is mainly local transport and accidents at unsecured railway crossings. However, most of these accidents occur because participants in traffic are too late or do not notice the incoming train or rolling stock at all, since in particular the afternoon lighting equipment on these towing vehicles and compositions is less visible. The main purpose of the bill is thus to increase the visibility of incoming vehicles by installing flashing stroboscope lights and special mirrors in the necessary places along routes where visibility due to curves or other obstacles is limited, which would make an important contribution to reducing the number of accidents. The law was also reviewed by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had very serious concerns about the content itself. She also pointed out that somehow the content was being duplicated by certain solutions in the existing law and that some solutions should be addressed in sub-legislative acts. Nevertheless, the Government’s opinion, which somehow listened to this need to improve transport safety on these regional rail routes, followed the Government’s view and sought appropriate solutions to improve and supplement this law, also taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee's debate was also largely subordinated to the fact that we were working together to find solutions and to pursue the goal of genuinely ensuring greater safety on railways or in level crossings with local roads. So the amendments that have been adopted follow these solutions. The Committee subsequently voted on all articles of the bill together and also adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u97	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Igor Jakomin, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The proposed law on amendments to the Railway Safety Act was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr France Žnidaršič. In particular, the proposed law aims to ensure an increased level of safety at level crossings marked only by a traffic mark. The applicant provides that at such level crossings additional measures shall be taken at unprotected level crossings in places where visibility may be increased, special mirrors and railway vehicles shall be marked with additional stroboscope lights, which should increase their visibility, particularly at level crossings. The provision on the installation of special mirrors allows them to be installed on routes which are not subject to interoperability conditions and, of course, only at crossings where visibility can be increased. More detailed provisions on the technical specifications of mirrors and their fittings will be made by means of a regulation. The second measure is also related to security at level crossings equipped only with the Andrey Cross. The equipment of vehicles with stroboscope lamps is intended to increase the visibility of vehicles and thus better alert road users to the incoming vehicle on the track. This provision also applies only to lines which are not subject to interoperability conditions. Which are these lines and the precise determination of the technical characteristics of the stroboscope lights will be determined by a regulation. The proposed law also lays down a time limit for aligning the Level Transition Regulation with the provisions of the proposed law. The time limit for issuing a regulation specifying lines which are not subject to the conditions for ensuring interoperability and for aligning the Regulation on Brakes, Safety Equipment and Equipment of Railway Vehicles with that law. A period of two years after the application of this Act is fixed for the installation of mirrors, which is the duty of the controller. The law further lays down the time limit for equipping towing vehicles with stroboscope lamps - not later than two years after the entry into force of this law, which is the duty of the carrier driving on non-interoperable routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u99	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u100	Well welcomed on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In our parliamentary group, we will support the Railway Safety Act, especially in the event of the fact that the text has also been substantially cleared during the meeting of the Transport Committee and, last but not least, has also taken into account the European directives governing certain equipment, both for trains and for rails, which must be aligned with all the members of the European Union. In this case, it is even an attempt to develop a specific technology in Slovenia in the field of railway safety, which would later be presented to the other members of the European Union as one of, hopefully, effective ways of solving or ensuring greater safety in rail transport. The fact is that all these measures, which are envisaged by the establishment of mirrors on opaque curves and by the appropriate installation of stroboscopic lamps on train compositions, cannot be implemented on international tracks or routes, but this can be done on regional routes in our country, which are several. One of these, which is also being updated in the last period, is the so-called nomadic line from Grosuplja to Kočev, which has the status of the regional line and the means are ensured that in 2012 this route will be implemented and can be both freight and passenger transport. However, due to the extremely high costs of signal security devices, which are somehow in the rank of construction works, it is not to be expected that at the time when passenger traffic will run out, all automation has been built or installed, which would provide extremely safe rail traffic on this track, and it is therefore possible to improve the visibility of train compositions and transparency in curves that are somehow opaque - there are level crossings - of course to significantly improve safety on this track too. So that when we talk about the means that we can invest at some point in rail safety, of course this is also one of the cheapest measures, not least with which we can provide additional security, because if we talk about installing stroboscope lights on a train or installing mirrors along a track, this cost is significantly lower than automation or electrification of regional lines. So in any case, we are talking about saving already by improving safety with better vehicle equipment and, of course, costs can be reduced because there will be fewer accidents. In our opinion, the text of the law can be supplemented by amendments that are also tabled and tabled together with other parliamentary groups and with the applicants, so that we will support all the amendments that have been tabled, which we believe will also fully meet the expectations of the Legal and Legal Service and, last but not least, will become feasible in practice, and we really want this law to bring good experience and thus possibly one of the good practices of a small country in the European Union in the field of railway safety, which we hope will then also be established throughout the European Union. In short, it is possible to see a modest law, but extremely, extremely important, so we will both support the articles and amendments of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u101	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Have a nice hello to you all. The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Railway Safety, which we are considering after a reduced procedure, includes additional measures to improve railway safety or road users when they encounter road crossings. It is certainly an important content, which, in our opinion, is once again premature, according to the SDS Group, in the sense that such a change is proposed following a reduced procedure. For this reason, when we deal with both proposed content, on the one hand, in order to achieve greater safety on the level crossings of the road across the railway line by installing special mirrors and on the other hand to increase safety on the level crossings across the railway - by placing specific stroboscope lights on towing vehicles, we provide further greater safety. Here we need to take into account that we have run out of the professional position of the security authority we have in the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Public Railway Agency based in Maribor, which also works with the European Railway Organisation, as a security authority called ERA. This is certainly important because it is a matter of uniting security systems that must be taken into account on the one hand by those who have free access to public railway infrastructure with towing vehicles on the railway infrastructure of Slovenia in order to ensure that these things have to be harmonised. Unfortunately, because we are considering the content after a reduced procedure, there is probably no time for this to be asked at the level of the European Railway Association, too, what they are doing and how they are doing. And here we will face the problem, because the ERA European Association is a European Security Authority, it is preparing and already analysing and testing some devices that are, of course, far from what this proposal contains, and this is the so-called video surveillance sent to the test stage by German railways. This opinion by our security authority, namely the Public Railway Agency, which we do not follow in the content of the proposal, would of course help make it easier for Members and Members to decide. In the SDS Group, we believe that any improvement in the situation, regardless of the price required by the additional increase in security, is removed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, much less than is worth one human life alone. But the facts here are completely the opposite. Just look, this week's proposal for a rebalancing of the budget, which will be in the government or even tomorrow, is declining precisely in the transport sector of €140 million. And this is a matter of great opposition; on the one hand, to improve security, we want something special and we give it to Europe to accept it. First, we will test and then give Europe an assessment, instead of asking the European association what they are doing in this area and, as I mentioned, some more modern devices are being used. In the SDS Group, we have also proposed a certain amendment to improve the situation over the next five years when the so-called level crossings of roads across the railway with overpasses, underpasses, and other crossings were secured by prisons or semi-prisoners, which would be enough for about five years to arrive in the Republic of Slovenia conditions where unprotected crossings would, of course, no longer exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u103	Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u104	Honourable Vice-President, Ministry Representative, colleague and colleague! At the time of the drafting of the amendment to the Railway Safety Act, two members of the Zares Group - a new policy - signed the proposal mainly because the main objectives of the law are to reduce the number of accidents and reduce the number of deaths on railway crossings. The law currently in force lays down the conditions for safe, orderly and unhindered public rail transport carried out after a single, technical and technological process. The specific conditions for safe rail transport relate to the railway line, to all the European rail system, to the development and management of safety in the rail system and the crossings of roads and roads. However, statistics unfortunately show that accidents at certain railway crossings are largely too much. The key causes of this are, unfortunately, too many times a human factor or human inattention. By amending the law in the first place, we are working very hard to address the causes of accidents, which is why we want to increase the attention of the participants and, above all, the visibility that would make it impossible to avoid the arrival of locomotives. While I will not specifically mention the technical improvements that we are proposing in the law, I will mention only their central and essential purpose, this is an emphasis on reducing the number of severely injured and dead people. In this place I would also like to commend the Ministry of Transport, which, irrespective of the Government's original position on the home working body, has taken a constructive approach to the consideration of the amendment proposal, which has allowed us to find together the appropriate implementation of provisions that will allow for real improvements in rail safety in Slovenia. We will, of course, support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u105	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u106	Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian People's Party certainly support all measures that would help to ensure safety in rail transport, as any life that this would save is priceless. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we have several concerns and questions about this law. First of all, that the applicants are not adequately and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure show the actual financial consequences of this law. The consequences for public finances are not properly demonstrated, as it is not true that they will not be. Slovenian railways already in difficulty will certainly be given an additional financial burden by this law and, with so much as a lack of means to maintain roads, which also affects traffic safety, will be charged to municipalities or roadkeepers at level crossings as an additional cost for the installation of the intended mirrors. At the time of the amendment of the law, we ask ourselves: Will the partial introduction of only some routes really help to increase safety? If we are already deciding to support these measures in the National Assembly, then it would be better for real security to put them in place immediately, for all routes. In view of the proposed and accepted additions, it is envisaged that such additional markings or lamps will only be mandatory on vehicles which are not subject to conditions of interoperability, as many trains will remain in danger without these lights. We therefore rightly wonder whether this is just a skilled commercial move by the manufacturers who, as is known, have proposed such additional equipment. As not all trains on all Slovenian routes will have these lights, the danger will increase as those trains that will not have these additional lights become more dangerous, even less visible than trains that would have such lights. Evidence is on the roads where we can see how cars that forget to turn on lights are less visible than those with lights on. So it is clear that just by driving all lights on, this at least partially contributes to better visibility of cars and thus greater road safety. The additional illuminated trains will certainly be more visible, and the problem will be that they would be equipped on certain routes or certain trains, not all of them, because we cannot prescribe such additional equipment to foreign carriers, so some trains would be even less visible in some way, because they would be even less visible without these additional lights, so on the contrary they pose an even greater danger. But Members of the Slovenian People's Party support all measures to help improve rail safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u107	Mr Anton Urh of the DeSUS Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the amendment of the Railway Safety Act. The amendments adopted at the home work body have amended the provisions of the bill to such an extent that DeSUS Members have decided to support the proposals, as we believe that additional stroboscope lights and mirrors will increase the visibility of trains and thus safety in rail transport. The fact is that accidents still occur in local traffic at unsecured railway crossings, mainly due to the lack of visibility of the train, especially during the day and in areas with reduced visibility. That is why, according to our assessment, any improvement will be welcome, which will help to increase the visibility of the upcoming train. At the same time, we cannot and cannot justify the amount of financial costs, as human life has no price and cannot therefore be evaluated and compared with the price of stroboscope lights and mirrors. As we say, Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u109	Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party, because it is a beautifully said stupid law, a law that could be judged at the end of the 19th century or perhaps the beginning of the first half of the 20th century, not today. In Europe, video surveillance lines are being introduced, and we will introduce "pigs", mirrors and lights. Europe requires level crossings, we will keep those crossings, we will not give prisons or half-prisoners, as it should be, but we will install glasses or "pigs" and mirrors, and I do not know what else to do, just so that someone can sell the equipment that we will then have to throw away in the shortest possible time under the European directive. And when the proponent said that we could sell this outdated technology to Europe, one smiles. Europe is moving forward, Slovenia is going back and even in Slovenia there are smarter people who do not support it. The European Railway Association is a strong organisation that will laugh at what we are doing within Slovenia and will certainly not require its locomotives to set up some stroboscope lights, but we know that there are more Austrian locomotives driving along Slovenian routes, as this is not necessary in Europe. In addition, if we look in Europe they drive much faster than in Slovenia, where the average train speed is between 40 and 45 kilometres per hour, but usually even less, they do not have mirrors on the crossings, but they do not have stroboscope lights on the locomotives, which is also in conflict with the Light Pollution Act. When Article 1 says that in places where visibility can be increased, special mirrors are installed, I do not know how "where visibility can be increased". A few days ago, on the Council on Channel A, there was a brief report about these passages, where instead of half or all of the prisons they installed some boards, some lightning lights and similar things - people at the end of that end went mad to make a fool of them, because security was not completely enhanced or improved and here it is something similar. I'm sure someone could look at the background of who's here who's going to make mirrors, who's going to make stroboscope lights for the client of the Slovenian Railway which are already in red numbers anyway. I think that the fourth article is particularly interesting, which says, "if it is further established that the construction of special mirrors at the level crossings is effective" to equip level crossings with this equipment. Now I don't understand if we're talking about level crossings, where the equipment is, why the need to equip the level crossings, because if the level crossings are level crossings. At least we would write: when it is found that the setting of special mirrors at outside level crossings is useful, then it is also used at level level. In short, there is a total ignorance of words and terms here, and on the other hand, it is interesting how and where we would place the mirror on the level crossing and why we would place it if the transition is level. For if you go under the railway, in fact, one is driving along the railway; but if you go across the track, one is driving along the railway track, because the crossings or paths cross in two levels. In short, I think it's funny, and it reminds me that, like in town where they're going to make a crossroads instead of a circle, someone is going to sell old traffic lights that no one uses anymore. In short, if we want to continue, let us stay in the 21st century, not go back to the 19th or 20th century.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u111	Mr Milan Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members, fellow Members. According to the Public Agency for Transport Safety of the Republic of Slovenia, 147 people have died at the level crossings of the road in traffic accidents over the past 16 years. The main part of traffic accidents occurred at passively secured level crossings, which are marked only by the Andrei Cross. In doing so, it is clear that as many as 38% of traffic accidents occurred at level crossings covered by prisons, semi-prisoners or light and sound signals. In Slovenia we have, according to the latest data, 888 level crossings across the railway line, of which 549 are passively secured and 339 are actively secured level crossings, i.e. with prisons or semi-prisoners. The Agency, in one of its first actions since the establishment, which has been called 'Stop, Train cannot', notes that the only really effective measure to ensure full security at level crossings would be the arrangements for level crossings with full prisons, or their termination or execution outside a level crossing. Unfortunately, this is impossible, given the large number of level crossings and also the category of roads crossing the railway line, but also uneconomically and irrationally. We also agree with this conclusion of the Agency at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In addition to the accelerated upgrading of passively secured transitions to actively secured level crossings, other measures are therefore needed. For example, measures to improve transparency at level crossings and measures to improve the visibility of railway vehicles. Such measures are provided for in the draft law under consideration. Thus, at unprotected level crossings, special mirrors may be installed in places where visibility may be increased and the other measure provides for the labelling of railway vehicles with additional stroboscope lamps, which should increase the visibility of railway vehicles. The proposed measures met the rules of European law, as the obligation to equip vehicles of foreign carriers with additional lamps on the entire Slovenian rail network can only be achieved through amendments to the technical specifications for interoperability, which means the agreement of all Member States, as well as the preparation of technical specifications and their submission for consideration. We therefore welcome the fact that, in the original negative view, the Government, together with the applicants, has found a compromise solution whereby both measures will be implemented at the first stage on routes that are not subject to the conditions of interoperability, i.e. on regional or side railway lines. It's actually going to be some kind of pilot project. If the installation of special mirrors at level crossings and the use of stroboscope lights in front of railway vehicles is effective, this case of good practice will be the basis for Slovenia's proposal that the competent authorities of the European Union agree to amend the relevant technical specifications. This will allow Slovenia, by means of a sub-legislative act, to establish that this equipment equips all level crossings and vehicles that drive the routes subject to the conditions of interoperability or as the real Minister of Transport, if both measures prove to be effective methods to improve visibility at the level crossings, this could be a contribution from our country to trying to convince the European Union that such measures contribute to greater transport safety. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with such a compromise and a process consistent with the European rules. As we have heard, there is also agreement on this by the bill's proponents, which is why we will support the bill's complementary proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u113	Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the non-connected Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u114	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The aim of the bill is to increase safety in rail transport, prevent the direct onset of a person on a locomotive, thereby reducing the number of fatalities, serious injuries, destruction of vehicles, transported game and domestic animals, and the proposed changes also have an impact on the reduction of health insurance costs, the increased income of DURS, the reduction of insurance costs, the reduction of the costs of Slovenian railways. Slovenian road and rail safety regulations stipulate that a train or other rolling stock has priority over others in traffic. The driver approaching the level crossing must therefore drive the vehicle with the necessary caution and speed so that he can stop in time. The most dangerous are unprotected passageways in curves where the train is not seen early enough. At the extreme points, we would put on special convex mirrors which are still visible from the unprotected transition and which would increase the distance of the approaching train by about 200 %. The visibility would also significantly increase with the simultaneous use of stroboscope lights on locomotives. On a European scale, the data provided is that, on the tracks where slower trains drive, at speeds up to 100km/h, the most accidents are observed and mechanisms for greater visibility of locomotives should be established. In Slovenia, according to data from 31. 12. 2009, a total of 916 level crossings across the railway line, of which 577 are marked only by the Andrei Cross, due to the high financial costs of the prisoners, and also in the future, do not show any significant changes, and therefore the alternative forms of increased security are all the more important. It is true, and our Group is aware of this, that it would be best to secure all these transitions with prisons and semphorize them and so on, but these costs, which are enormously high for such insurance in the short term, will not be able and certainly not in the next 10 years. Therefore, it is a small cost for the installation of mirrors and a small cost for the installation of lights, certainly one which must be recognised in order to increase security in this respect, as we propose the signatories to this proposal to supplement the law. Here to pour tears at the expense of Slovenian railways to be lost and so on due to these lights is nonsense. We are confident that from the profits of 4 and a half million funds allocated for stimulation, in the worst times of the crisis and in general losses on Slovenian railways, several or more times or more than ten times would cover all the costs incurred to install these lights on all the locomotives we have in the country. Not to mention the high annual holiday regression; on Slovenian railways, costs and losses and on everything else are raised when it is necessary to share and therefore any crying on this topic is exceeded. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support the law as a legitimate one, as well as amendments that are prepared to define solutions more precisely. At the same time, we cannot support an amendment that says that Article 4 would be deleted, because we are convinced that Article 4 actually correctly predicts similar equipment on all routes, irrespective of interoperability, if it turns out to help save lives and reduce the number of accidents. That's why we can't support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u115	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2011. In doing so, I remind you that you have just received an amendment to Article 4 on the bench, so pay attention. We are moving on to the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members and the SDS Group amendment to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment proposed under Article 1 puts things in place. The amendment we have drafted in our parliamentary group simply says what is the only logic and what is actually the 21st century rail system. Thus, this amendment proposes that all level crossings, which are today secured only by the Andrei Cross, therefore, which are without prisons, be adequately equipped with prisons and semi-prisoners, are said to be adequately secured, or to be terminated and replaced by non-level crossings. This is a solution, and this is a contribution to the safety of road users when they meet rail crossings. This is the solution, which is European comparable and true, which is final and unique. We also propose a deadline of five years. And we propose that this programme be prepared by the Government, which then also implements it. And that's a solution that means rail safety. Let me tell you, I've been listening to the debate. Clearly, we all want to reduce the number of accidents in train encounters. Of course that's what we want, that's the point. But the solution, I'm sorry, is not verified. Respectable proponents, who will be responsible? Who will be responsible when a traffic accident occurs at a crossing that will be secured by mirrors and not by prisoners? Who will be responsible? Minister? No, we don't know what's gonna happen. Therefore, we propose that in five years in Slovenia all dangerous crossings, which are secured only by the Andrej Cross, be eliminated. This is a solution that is final and beneficial to people. I can't imagine how this will look, even if it's well-intentioned, and the proponents here of course are well-intentioned, but the solutions, excuse me, are not real. They're not real, they can be dangerous, they can cause confusion. What will happen if a car accident occurs despite such a mirror? Who's to blame? Who's to blame? The one who suggested this solution! It's his fault. Therefore, to avoid all solutions that bring some, I do not know, good-intentioned improvements, but will not bring them. Who's the train stopping? Only the prisoners are the physical obstacles that stop the one driving across the railway. And that is why the system as it was, previously mentioned was the Grosuplje line - Kočevje, which is modernised, of course, and is modernised by solving the level crossings, so that they are adequately equipped with prisons, or break off. That's the right approach. What should now, in fact, be invested by road managers, from a municipal point of view, in eliminating the level crossings in order to ensure that they are adequately secured? We take the money back and tell them to put the mirrors there, and the participants will see the train faster. Of course, it's a beautiful solution, but it's not permanent. And it's not for the benefit of citizens and citizens, excuse me. And it breaks technical unity like an expert concept in rail transport. That's why they're international rail connections. We therefore have a European Railway Agency to ensure that rail transport is as harmonised, standardised, uniform as possible. I don't know why it's so difficult in this country to adopt a programme to end the level crossings, to equip with prisons and semi-prisoners, and where it's necessary to make out of the level crossings. This is a solution that is European and is real and final. I'm sorry. He's a suicide bomber. In this solution, however, I note that it is not verified, it is not harmonised, it is not tested, and it means an experiment if you allow me. Experiment on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I propose, let us have our heads gathered, adopt a plan to remove the level crossings, arrange the level crossings in a way that is comparable to that of Europe and solve the problem where it is, despite the well-intention of the measures. I therefore propose that you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you, Dr. Verlich. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to say that both of the amendments that have been tabled in my judgment make sense. Both the one tabled by several applicants and the amendment proposed by the SDS. The difference between them is that we are counting on one to ensure this security gradually. Others want it a little faster and with the best possible solutions. There is no doubt that the replacement of level crossings from outside the niche crossings is unquestionably better. But there is no doubt about it, too, if data does not make it easy for us to have 916 level crossings in Slovenia and that we have level crossings that are equipped only with the Andre Cross 577. If we know how much it costs to change the level crossings outside the level crossing, then we know that this money will probably be very difficult to realize in a few years. In addition, spatial installations will have to be arranged because these are not simple projects. These are not simple installations, but also technical transport projects that are very difficult. We believe that it is possible and is good, but not mistakes, to start with small steps and then to continue with these optimal solutions, which are not available to us all in the following year, in my judgment, not in the next five years, but more will be said by the ministry, which knows what development plans it has. However, as I say, this solution that the SDS is proposing is good is better, but at this point it is probably not viable for us, so I will vote in favour of the first amendment. I would also like to answer that because she wanted to be blamed for any new accidents at the railway crossings, she was thrown at the applicants of this material, but what if the mirrors were installed would still be an accident. Who's to blame? "Proposers," was said. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Each participant in transport is primarily responsible for compliance with the rules alone and first, and if, unfortunately, something happens to him without knowingly violating the rules causes an accident, he has also taken that responsibility and no one can impose it on those who propose improvements to transport safety in rail transport. I should add that because, in relation to the two amendments, it is also necessary to consider the costs of rejecting the draft law in the State Council from a cost point of view, which is still quite unacceptable, because we had other ambitions and not just protecting the resources of local communities so that they would not have to install these mirrors. Even if we were to implement the other amendments and in a few years turn all the level crossings into outside the level crossings, this does not mean that local communities would be financially burdened. The funds for this should be planned both at the Ministry of Transport and at the national level, as at the local level, for a very simple reason. This is not an out-of-level transition, which would start and end only on the railway, but it is a major intervention, mainly a couple of hundred meters, which must also have cycling routes and must have sidewalks, public lighting and everything else, with the participation of local communities. And in order for all of this to happen, we must probably take some time and, of course, also make financial plans and analyses, when and how this is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u119	Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself am one of the signatories to this proposal, so I will support the amendments and this bill. It is interesting, though, how in a situation where we talk about the same thing, we react differently, whether someone is in opposition or in coalition or in power or not. It is truly amazing how one such small marriage proposal can do much to foster passion and to prove what is better and what is worse. I think it has been very clear in all the presentations what the basic purpose of this is. It is not the basic purpose of what respected colleague Verlič has in place as a final and only solution - to equip all transitions with prisons, to build all outside the level crossings. This is not our wish. The proposaler’s wish is gradually to improve what the figures also show by measures that do not cost much. Even if the prisoners put in jail do not prevent accidents - 38% of them have happened, it is probably not the right assessment that they are suicides. They are simply people who overlook prisons and experience a cruel fate, perhaps some kind of ingenuity among them. But that is why the cost, which will certainly affect the local community in one part, is this part in the construction of mirrors, but only in those places that will be determined and which will be assessed as appropriate and also justified. From the experience of three mandates, as mayor, I can tell you how difficult it is to provide funds to regulate an unprotected transition or transition that is secured only by the Andrey Cross and how difficult it is to secure funds. Therefore, the amendment of the SDS to do so in five years and the question whether it is really so difficult to do so is perhaps a question that comes up: why has this programme of equipment and insurance for all transitions not been made in the last four years? There was a danger four years ago or three years ago, so we are confident that at this time of crisis and also a reasonable reduction in the investment budget will be a complete regulation, a final regime harder than envisaged. However, this proposal allows for a gradual step and, above all, improving transport safety. It is also interesting how an old cat such as Jelinčič makes people very like him to fool himself from the proposer. However, it is likely that the listener has also found that he does not even separate what a niche crossing is outside the military, what is protected, and that it is not back to the 19th century, but is a tiny step towards greater security in this 21st century. So these things would be good with numbers and, above all, with great material damage to the death victims, when we discuss such a proposal that will not endanger anyone in his ambitions, and also possible to equip all crossings in the next term, all crossings with definitive solutions, but at this point it is a step forward. And to make fun of the fact that the world has video control. Yeah, probably video surveillance is really perspective, and at this point, maybe as ironic as Jelinčič would say, at this point in time, surveillance would only record what's going on in the accident. Unfortunately, I can also remember those old jokes from the time they were still hand-lifting the prisoners and the one on the exam who was raising the prisoner asked what he was doing if the train came from the left and said, "I'm going to jump and release the prisoners." The next question is, "What do you do if the train comes from the right side?" "I jump again and release the prisoners." "What do you do if the trains come from the left and the right at once?" "I jump in and call my neighbor to see if he sees an accident." So this step, which is proposed, is certainly well - intentioned, will help and we hope that it will help prevent an accident. However, it is certainly not a desire to deliver mirrors, but after the delivery of light, whatever it takes, it will be necessary to pay, including prisoners, the construction outside the level crossings, so that the cost will in any case arise, but this is significantly lower than we expect to be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out here that in the next period major investments in the rail network will start and this issue, which is now under discussion, will address this problem as a matter of priority. Of course, at the Ministry, we are aware of this and, therefore, security, we are putting a great deal of weight on it. However, I find the setting of some deadlines to be rather dangerous at present, especially because of the financial obligations they would impose over the next five years, especially at this time, it is irresponsible in times of crisis, so we could not support this somehow.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. As your candidate, Mr. Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. This debate has shown that, however, we are all thinking that it is good that traffic security is improving and I have nothing against the SDS amendment to Article 1. However, the cost of realisation in these five years would certainly be several billion euros, because outside the level crossings is a very expensive thing, except in very rare cases. As a result, this amendment cannot be supported. I would also like to mention the fact that video surveillance in the base in no way increases traffic safety if not all drivers, all tractors and all pedestrians crossing the track and all bikers and motorists are equipped with it, and so on, who will notice on the screen that the train is coming. We have video surveillance in the tunnels, but this does not help prevent an accident if the driver drives into the tunnel without light at night or in the opposite direction. There's absolutely nothing that helps. The video surveillance detects the infringement, but certainly not, for the longer term it can also affect traffic safety because it alerts drivers, other participants, but the video surveillance itself in a place does not solve the problem. We have no reservations that these modern means also do not improve traffic safety. With regard to the obvious need to strive for a uniform regime, we certainly do not agree with it. Because if a single arrangement does not have everything that could increase security, then there is nothing wrong with doing so in Slovenia, no matter what others think. Certainly it is not possible to impose responsibility on law-makers if someone, despite the fact that the visibility of the incoming rolling stock will be increased and, of course, even greater because of the mirrors placed on them, still crosses the line when it is dangerous. So it's malicious to blame the proponents, I can say with a low profile, and we don't accept that. Surely there is a chance that there will be an accident after that, but there is no way to help. Secured passages didn't solve the problem either. In 2009, 38% of these accidents were where the prisoners were. A few hundred prisoners break down each year, and luckily, all the broken prisons don't lead to disaster. And it's too bad. So that the very cost of this solution that we propose is so small and so insignificant against improving traffic safety on railways is, of course, the one that can be imposed without bad conscience on so many local communities when it comes to mirrors and if we reduce it to a particular congregation, for a few mirrors, perhaps even for any mirror and for the lights that are not expensive in themselves. It is also not such a cost to install and equip tow vehicles that we can rattle today on the impact of Slovenian railways, which, on the other hand, sometimes afford a luxury that all other citizens cannot afford and also do not work in the real sector, where elsewhere or in the public sector, where there is no other way. Thus, such evidences are empty and we will be happy if such knowledge translates into all present to support the marriage with appropriate adjustments in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Well, first of all, I have to say that I'm very disappointed in the beginning, because as far as I've been listening to demagogies, it's probably been a long time since I've heard it. The fact is that security needs to be taken care of and the fact is that the law, as proposed, will not solve this security, at least not in the way that this would necessarily be necessary. We have therefore tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve this law in such a way as to ensure European comparable solutions. We know exactly, and those who live along these tracks and drive across these tracks every day, we can figure out what the lights mean and what the mirrors mean. I come from the congregation of Šentilj, where the route from Maribor to Šentilj, and just last year in October there was a serious traffic accident in Ranca, where Mom and the five-year-old son lost their lives. But there could be 100 lights, but I don't know how many mirrors, because the weather was such that the visibility was simply unacceptable and, apart from and exclusively, the prisoners could prevent this accident. And respectable! Now to say that this is a problem that is important, which is beautiful and which needs to be solved, it is possible to solve it with lights and mirrors. I think my colleague, Jelinčič, made it very clear that we're coming back in 19. A century. We do not, however, take solutions and decisions that are important, through which we can ensure what is most important - we are, indeed, protecting human life. I am convinced that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is the only one that can ensure this in the long term. Colleagues, the proponents say they want to solve this problem gradually. I think that in our country at this point this matter is so problematic that we have had enough time to solve these matters gradually. Now is the time to approach concrete solutions. I also have here a letter of civil initiative from that environment, which also invited the minister to that accident that happened there, and nothing has happened since then. Nothing at all. And if this civil initiative today listens to what those who propose this law, what they propose, I will tell you that they would laugh at you. We'd be laughing at you. I can say this because I am sure that the proposals you have proposed in this law will not contribute to greater security in this area, they will not. Apart from the fact that the taxpayer's money will be spent again, and I am sure that, according to my assessment, once again, there is a game behind which we want to provide someone who manufactures mirrors or lights with a business through the law. A million of these things have happened. And I think we should end this once. There are also no analyses attached here, nothing on which we can also see that there will be greater security for participants through this law. But we all know exactly, I can read, Mr Posedel, please, I did not disturb you before you spoke, and therefore I ask you kindly to listen to me. Everyone has the right to express his or her opinion. And you spoke before about coalition and opposition and so on. For you unrelated Members, I do not know today whether you are a coalition or an opposition. I do not think that we are today adopting a law for the coalition, not for the opposition, but for you undecided or whatever your name is, but we are adopting solutions that must be written on the skin of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think that the solution, as proposed in the amendment, in the Slovenian Democratic Party is a truly acceptable solution, a solution that is urgently needed if we are to follow and protect human life. And in Ranca, this accident and these two lives would not have been lost if there had been a prisoner or half a prisoner. What you're suggesting - mirrors, I don't know if any of you went to look down the track, and saw where those passages are, what could we do with mirrors? Everyone in this House can laugh, everyone, too, but I am sure, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that the taxpayer's money, which is difficult for people to raise and pay in the state budget, cannot be spent on things for which we have no guarantee of greater and better security. That is why I think and, of course, I ask all Members and Members of Parliament to support the amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it has proposed that this issue be resolved over a period of five years and I think that, at the very least, at this time, this issue must be adequately addressed. At the very least, because I don't know how many more lives are needed to understand here that we have to take concrete solutions, not some solutions that the applicant is talking about gradually. What else is going to happen at this time of year? Is the money in the budget, the few million more important than human life, the life of Slovenian and Slovenian? I don't think so. I don't think there can be 10 or 50 million more important than one human life. I was present at the accident, and it might be nice if one of the other Members and Members could feel what it means. At that time, I also felt personally responsible for not doing enough in the National Assembly to prevent such accidents. But I can tell you here today that it is very likely that we will be preparing an appropriate law in the Slovenian Democratic Party to put this matter in the right place. In such a way that we will not gradually, as it is written here, tackle in an improper way a problem that is extremely acute and problematic. Certainly not with the lights and certainly not with the mirrors. Believe this, because I am confident that we will not achieve that common goal, which is our common goal and that is the security of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u127	Mr. Posedel wants a replica. Here you go, Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you for the word or opportunity for a replica, because Mr Pojbič has appointed me. I'm sorry to bother you because I was watching you and listening. I certainly did not laugh at you or speak to you, because I respect everyone who is in the National Assembly, as well as every other person very much. That's why I'm not going to judge whether your speech was demagogic. So please don't judge what I'm saying in a way that's not appropriate. I didn't speak demagogos. I was emotionally talking about cases where you were in an accident. If I started talking, I'd say, unfortunately, I was the mayor when five children died on an unhindered crossing. But that's not the topic. The theme is that by taking this small step we can save one or more lives, we can increase safety. Therefore, it is not necessary to discuss this way as you are discussing. Because you obviously don't understand me, but this is a coalition of opposition. There's no law for them. I spoke specifically about Mr Verlic, who was the Secretary of State in the previous term and could have made the equipment programme, or even all the crossings could have been secured. That was the point, but it doesn't matter that we keep doing this. On TV, it's just a chance to shut down and not watch this show. You can also go out in Parliament if you don't like the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič as a bill-maker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In any case, on behalf of the motioners and the co-signers of the bill, I must strongly reject any suggestion that there is any background, or even any possible benefit from the equipment of towing vehicles or the setting of mirrors suggested by Mr Jelinčič. This is a subtle hint that has nothing to do with what we intend to achieve with this bill. For we ourselves had one purpose, which was presented - this is to reduce the number of accidents in a way that the train was seen earlier or that the train was seen as such, better visible and so on. Maybe even chaotically more visible, but this certainly helps, rather than harming. Once again, I should like to reiterate that we understand the intention of the SDS amendment to be the best everywhere in the prison and, if only possible, beyond the level crossings. But the proponents say nothing about where to get the money, because the castles in the clouds could also build the proponents themselves. From this point of view, I would like to ask that the low blows against the signatories we have wished to make with a small and cheap, I would stress, the steps taken to increase rail safety, aware of the necessary resources which the State does not have and cannot provide them for a shorter period of time, even within five years for the purpose proposed by the other amendment. And this is not a waste of tax money, Mr Pojbič, because it is a modest means of a mirror on a local road by municipalities and it is a small cost for lights on Slovenian railways to equip locomotives. I hope you've read the law where we wrote to test on that track this matter, where, according to the information known, the greatest accidents in the last ten years and the most dead. And only if our proposal turned out to be helpful would it become an obligation to equip and solve the problem on all other routes as well. And here I see no logic in contradiction and in the obvious, which do not have any material basis in what we have written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has been having a half-hour discussion. You'll get the word, I'm just warning you that I'll be very grateful, and probably someone else in the National Assembly, if you don't always mention names, and if everyone whose name will be mentioned doesn't feel the need to replicate, many times to do nothing. Let's think about it. But now Mr Verlich has come to the table for a debate, I think Mr Posedell. Mr Pojbič has applied, Mr Rezman has applied and then Mr Janko Weber may be on his way. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I think I need to react. In fact, I thank you because, as I understand it, you don't really challenge our amendment. He seems to make sense, he says, and he's the one solving this problem. And I think that's why it would be good to support him. What he's saying is that in five years it will be necessary to solve all the level crossings that are unprotected, it's said, secured only by the Andre Cross, after some level crossing system, construction outside the military, or rescue with prisons and semi-prisoners, peaks. And this thing is perfectly clear here and I don't see any opposition, so it would be good to support it. This is particularly supported by the position of the Secretary of State, who has now left the Chamber, but he said very well that this programme is being followed, but that the amendment, which says that it would be impossible to install these mirrors by 1 April 2012, is impossible to implement at all. Of course, it makes sense. And from this I have also felt that the Government is closer to solving this problem as we propose, which is the only meaningful and true one. But if I go back, we'll probably listen to what's good, what we should do, and we're not. I thought it would only take six months when there was a fresh exchange when a new suit came in to look at the old government, say, half a year. But this story, it seems, will last as long as possible. Yeah, that's why, of course, you got the election to do better. But the results already show, also in this area, respected colleagues, that the budget rebalance just takes away 100 million euros, 100 million euros or even more, 140 million euros from the transport sector. Yes, but it wasn't Janša's government that did this, and that's what your government did.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u133	Mr. Verlič, I agree with you when you warn not too much about the back, but you also withdraw from the content of the problem. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u134	I'm sorry, I think it's important.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u135	Talk about what the budget is, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u136	Dear Vice-President, this is what I want to say, so I want them to be more effective now, and this problem can be resolved by abolishing the transitions, with a good draft budget. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbich has the floor if he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. So I have to answer the question when my colleagues say that there is no money for the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I ask you, was the money for the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank, which has made a catastrophic story in this country through which hundreds of millions of money have been spent? But for people who don't say irresponsible things in this country, there's enough money to live, and there's no money to protect human lives? And we're always listening to these pranks, and you're trying to convince us that we're proposing wrong solutions because there's no money. Money for everyone else, so I don't say any thieving - is there enough money? But there is no money for human life insurance in this country. Please don't try to convince me that I'm wrong. Because I am sure that in this country this Government should have the money it has at its disposal to have significantly more quality and beneficial resources. And it wouldn't be the situation and situation that is in this country. Not that most citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia can no longer live. But we have money for the tycoons, and for that, I won't tell anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u139	Mr. Pojbich, you promised to be brief. And it would be good to talk about the content of the law, not everything else. Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u140	We have made the law very clear, and we have always ensured that we are primarily concerned with preventing accidents, preventing victims, and resulting in material harm, so our lives are at stake. We can save these lives in different ways or prevent accidents in different ways with greater or less certainty. Surely there is something to be done about stroboscope lights and that mirrors can be installed almost immediately and thus prevent accidents and save lives. And it is almost certain that 916 level crossings in five years are not physically or financially able to be arranged. And now we ask ourselves, who is it that lives here, those who delay solutions and do not want to do what we can do right now? Let me give you an example of what this is all about. When I presented this proposal to the Law in the State Council at the end of last month, I experienced a number of such insights that disappointed me, that it was money, perhaps two or three mirrors in the individual congregation statistically, the municipalities were somewhat over 200, and the level crossings were little less than 600, and so it was not some special money, and when the State Council or Commission rejected the bill, unfortunately the following day in the Evening Meal I found a report on an accident in which a 24-year-old boy died on a level crossing protected only by Andre's Cross, as police say, because he obviously did not notice that a train died on the right side of a tree against him. So, this is what we are talking about, that with small things, with small costs, with small interventions technically unnecessary and so on to save lives, and that it is not necessarily for us to set the megalomaean goals that we know we are not able to achieve at this moment and that if we do, we will achieve them significantly longer than we have proposed for five years. The deadline for the implementation of technical means, as we propose, is 1. 4. 2012. Try to secure 916 outside the level crossings by then. It's like talking about absurdity and we don't want to talk about it, it's the others who are pulling us by the language now that we actually have to talk about these things. And it draws us to the language as well as to the political investment we have made in this bill. This bill was signed, not only by the minority, but by the majority of the coalition MPs, such as Mr Barovic, who we thank, although his head of the parliamentary group said something completely different, was also signed by Mr Presečnik, who is also grateful, Mr Grims, and by someone else who has signed it. So we can find all the colors of the political spectrum under this law because we really meant to save lives with little means and without great technical complications and placement in space. Placing 916 outside of the level crossings into space is a task that will take years and years and years. But outside of the level crossings, it is impossible to realize as easily as to place a mirror where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I think there were really too many words spent on trying to show off, if in Slovenia we are now going to save the low-level transitions, only with mirrors. This is not the case, and even if you read the amendment that talks about it, it is very clear that if visibility can be increased at the level crossing, then it is placed on such a track, on such a section an appropriate mirror. All other measures remain in force, both prisoners, both the Andre Cross and outside the Level Passage, so that no one gives up. On the contrary, one small measure can be taken, but at least one accident can be prevented, as accidents that occur on rail tracks or on road crossings are usually tragic and in fact a stronger law. The train doesn't even know if the person has stepped on the track and what happened to it, nor is the biker, the biker. A few more noises can be said to detect if you happen, a car and a driver in a car. That is why it is also obvious that this feeling is in those who defend railways that it is unnecessary. Yes, of course, railways do not actually feel a need to improve, because there are no consequences to this. However, this is an enforceable measure, an immediate measure, of course, will be a duly prepared sub-legislative act, which the Minister will also properly prepare and determine where and under what conditions such mirrors can be installed. So it is, however, a sufficiently controlled process, which, of course, leads to improvements in safety in a very short time. If we look at the SDS amendment that it is possible in five years to build prisons in all the level crossings or outside the level crossings, of course it is interesting and attractive to write such amendments and submit amendments but it is only one of a series of attempts, how they deceive themselves we can say that some problem can be solved in this way. I will only briefly remind you of the proposal to remove all leading toll stations on Slovenian highways within six months, even though we all know that this is impossible, but such a proposal was given. It was also suggested that all the development axes in Slovenia should be built in some very short time and that all the axes have priority and that this will all be resolved. However, of course, we have not yet received an answer as to how this will be done, especially where we will ensure that funds are made available for this short period of time. In the meantime, traffic is going on, accidents are happening, and I think it is necessary, as well as with the Road Safety Act, to prescribe certain measures that have no financial implications for road safety but improve with restrictions, some traffic safety regulations. This experiment is something similar, not to go into some huge investment, but to improve what we already have with certain technical improvements and what is possible and everything else will be upgraded later. I think that it is necessary to welcome the decision of this Government to give railways and upgrades, railway infrastructures a priority in the development of transport in Slovenia, and that this is the measure that will certainly lead, even after the completion of these investments, to have everywhere where it is necessary outside the level of transition, to have anywhere where it is necessary to build prisons, and that there may still be a transition, let us say, I don't know, even by footing or crossing with a forest path, which could also be solved in a more transparent way by setting a mirror or something like that. By adapting to the real situation, it is an understanding, not least of what is happening in practice, and that is why an additional effort has also been made on the Transport Committee to try to understand, especially that final objective, to improve safety on the railway tracks and not least to try to reduce the accidents or consequences of these accidents, which are also happening. So that when we meet with a clear logic that a train has priority at these intersections and if we give a comparison to a rescue or fire-fighting vehicle, these vehicles, too, have the advantage when they are on an emergency ride and are adequately equipped to do so, so that some analogy with the fact that the train has the advantage and, last but not least, is a significantly stronger participant in the traffic, will be nothing more if it has additional markings, additional lighting. Finally, you can see this lighting in the mirror first if it's set up, rather than if it's not there. By thinking that the adoption of this law would really make one move in thinking that, at the final stage, when all investments are completed, these problems will be significantly less. I am also pleased that the Grosuplje-Kočevje line is actually being updated and that it is being updated in a way that eliminates the level crossings, builds parallel to the forest roads, which then combines all these crossings and focuses on one of the controlled crossings. This is the concrete measure that certainly helps to bring about a definitive solution. Although I was disappointed at the attempt to update the railway line only to Ribnica, not to Kočev. And I'm happy we stopped it. Because, right at the section where speed is allowed or if speed is updated, even 100 kilometers per hour, an attempt was made to avoid this update at all. Even so, on this occasion, I am protesting against all those who have actually tried to drive activities, to update the route only to the Ribnica to Kočev, and still then to preserve a number of level crossings, entirely or secured only by the Andrej Cross, and some of them serving the crossing for access to the field surfaces, to forests that are sometimes even less transparent and even more dangerous. So I am sure that this law will be supported today, and not least will we meet the expectations of a civil initiative. How many times have we listened to the obvious if this government is not prepared to listen to any civil initiative, it is not prepared to negotiate. This is a concrete case where the Government and the Ministry have taken the Civil Initiative and both on the Transport Committee and, I am sure, today in the National Assembly with the adoption of some amendments, we will work together to formulate a text of a law that will be feasible and acceptable to all participants in this transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 1 and the two amendments to this Article? Because no, I am closing the debate on Article 1. We are moving on to Article 2 and to the debate on the two amendments. One was submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the other by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, the LDS, the Reals and the Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Genius, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. In fact, the SDS wants to destroy the proposal, which should allow anyone arriving at an unsecured railway crossing to notice, in time or early enough, the incoming rolling stock or train. And for this reason, of course, we reject the deletion of an article that speaks in the sense of equipping the railway crossing with mirrors if there is poor visibility and that the train is equipped with lights to be seen in advance and in time. And we think that this is the part of the solution that can help, especially at a time that we know will be longer and will not be possible in a different, better, more modern and more expensive way to equip the intersections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Of course it doesn't. This is the wrong interpretation of the proposal for the content of our amendment. It is simple to take into account the proposal of the first amendment, where matters would be settled within five years. If, of course, you will accept it differently, it is something other than what we wanted in the SDS Group to regulate all transitions to European standards over a period of five years. And what the predecessor said, he doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the two amendments to Article 2 and Article 2 of this Article? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 3 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, LDS, Reals and unrelated Members, and to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, LDS, Real and unrelated Members. However, I would like to point out that you have also received an amendment to the amendment of the SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members, which also amends the title of the article itself. I am opening the debate on Article 4 and the two amendments to this Article. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 5 and the two amendments to this Article. One has been tabled by SD, LDS and Res and unrelated Members, and this is the only amendment to Article 5. However, the amendment to Article 5 of the four SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members groups. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Article 5. And I note that we have also concluded this debate on all the articles of the bill. Therefore, I am adjourning this debate on this law and informing you that we will vote on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timing, today after the 29th item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the contrary a bill on amendments to the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Matei Vraničar, State Secretary, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u148	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the proposal is to transpose into the Slovenian legal order those provisions of the Directive relating to the capital requirements for the trading book and for additional ownership and the supervisory review of remuneration policies relating to the remuneration policy of credit institutions. The aim of the directive and also the law is to ensure that the remuneration policy is included in the risk management of the credit institution. In the course of the financial crisis, it has been shown that excessive and reckless risk-taking in the banking system can threaten the financial stability of financial institutions and cause systemic problems at the level of countries as well. Among other things, inappropriate remuneration structures have contributed to this situation in some financial institutions. The main solutions to the bill can be summarized into the following. In establishing a sound and reliable management system, the Bank is also required to maintain a policy and practice of remuneration and rewards that enable and promote appropriate and effective risk management. A new duty is further introduced for members of the Supervisory Board to regularly review and ensure their implementation the appropriateness of the general principles of remuneration policies. The Bank’s Supervisory Board will have to appoint a remuneration committee if the Bank is relevant to the Bank’s banking system of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the new report, the banks will be committed to disclosure of information on remuneration and remuneration policies and practices. This information will be used by Banka Slovenije compared to the remuneration system in the banking system. The individual bank will have to report to the Bank of Slovenia on the number of employees with the highest remuneration, including information on the amount of these benefits, in particular salaries, awards, ratings and special pension benefits, and on the area of their work. The Bank of Slovenia will be empowered to lay down more detailed rules on these policies, a more detailed definition of remuneration and employees with a specific nature of work, the tasks of the remuneration commission and the criteria for determining the importance of the bank for the appointment of a remuneration commission. Your Honor! It takes account of all of the above and, in particular, taking into account the objectives and purposes of the law, the Government proposes to adopt the proposed law in both the second and the third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the President, Mr. Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 29th meeting, on 28. 6. In 2011, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the proposer - Government, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, was considered by the mother labour force. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 97th meeting, on 16. 3. In 2011, he decided on a proposal to examine the law in question by means of a reduced procedure and also confirmed it. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which made specific comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 11 of the draft law. Similarly to the above mentioned warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, 22 6. Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 11 of the bill were tabled by the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats, the Zares Group and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee was also informed of the opinions of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Interested Group of Employers supporting the draft law. From the supplementary explanation of the individual articles in the context of the initiation of the second reading of the bill by the representative of the law-maker, the State Secretary at the Financial Ministry, the text on the adaptation of the sectoral directives in national legislation refers to the policy and practice of awarding in credit institutions, which will contribute to more appropriate and effective risk management. The financial crisis has shown weaknesses in the financial system, in particular the rules governing the operation of credit institutions and remuneration policies or such benefits. In order to achieve the objectives set, it is laid down that, in establishing a sound and reliable system of implementation, the Bank must, in parallel, conduct appropriate remuneration and remuneration policies and practices that condition and promote effective risk management. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further highlighted the transmission of comments and stressed that the amendments submitted largely follow the warnings given to the service. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee adopted, without special discussion, amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 11, which were tabled by the parliamentary groups on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service: Social Democrats, Zares and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In accordance with the third subparagraph of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the legislative proposal together. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared. You received the amended bill with a report from the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u152	Nice greetings to all present! The amendment of the Banking Act seeks to transpose Directive 2010/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 April 2010 on the legal order of Slovenia. 12. 2010 During the financial crisis, excessive and reckless risk-taking in the banking system has proved to be a threat to the financial stability of financial institutions and to the systemic difficulties of countries. Among other things, some financial institutions have contributed to this situation. In particular, the over-rewards in the banking sector have led to long-term instability in the short-term. The aim of the new rules is to ensure that the remuneration policy is included in the risk management of the credit institution. Poor remuneration policies and a system of incentives to unacceptable levels may increase the risk that credit institutions are exposed to. This introduces a robust and fair system of remuneration that is consistent with effective risk management. The main solutions resulting from the transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order are, in particular, provisions that the Bank should also guide the policy and practice of remuneration and rewards that enable and promote adequate and effective risk management when establishing a sound and reliable management system. Provisions that the Bank’s Supervisory Board should appoint a remuneration committee if the Bank is relevant to the Bank’s banking system of the Republic of Slovenia and that Bank of Slovenia should be designated as such by a decision. The Bank undertakes to disclose the policy and practice of remuneration and remuneration used by Banka Slovenije in comparison with the remuneration systems in the banking system. The Bank of Slovenia is authorised to lay down more detailed rules on remuneration policies and practices and criteria for determining the importance of the bank for the appointment of a remuneration commission. Since the provisions of the Banking Act applicable to banks also apply to savings banks and electronic money companies, the provisions on remuneration policy also apply to them, i.e. to all credit institutions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support all these guidelines, which is why we will also support the amendment of the Banking Act. However, independently of this new regulation, there is a major problem in the management and management of the largest state bank. A new recapitalisation is promising, which adds to the inefficient management and management of the bank. Slovenia would need a modern Lee Iacocca to rehabilitate the state's largest bank, which would set itself the rehabilitation and stabilisation goal and lay the foundations of the state's largest bank for one euro a month. It is likely that this scenario is absolutely unbelievable, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we hope that at least the anomalies we have received in the past with a million euro prize for the Prime Minister will not be received in the future at the time of the amended law. Another feature of the Slovenian banking system, including as regards state banks, is that the crisis, the general crisis, the banks somehow did not feel it. This crisis has not helped to restructure the largest state bank in an appropriate manner, to clear up, on the one hand, those claims which are poor and which weaken the overall condition of both state banks and, in our view, this is a delayed opportunity and a task that will need to be rectified sooner or later. In the banking system in Slovenia, we are still dealing with major irrationalities, with high commissions, which in some ways also generate profits, all at the expense of the economy. The problem with the largest state bank, it seems, is also that recovery will have to be paid over the taxpayers' shoulders, which is not good. And it would be good for the authorities to be actively involved in coordinating our legal rules on the operation of the largest state bank or state banks in a way that would lead to their effective and economic governance. This decision should have been made long ago because this situation in which we are now each day costs us tens of millions of euros. And sooner or later, it will be necessary to decide how and how to remedy the bad investments of the largest state bank. We think it would be right for the authorities to be aware of this and to come to the National Assembly as soon as possible with an appropriate solution to enable the largest state bank to behave properly and support the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u153	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. The essential provision of this law obliges credit institutions and investment firms to set and maintain policies of remuneration and practice consistent with effective risk management for staff whose professional activities have a decisive impact on the risk profile. It is important that the remuneration policy is designed to harmonise the personal objectives of employees with the long-term interests of the credit institution or investment firm concerned. The financial crisis has shown weaknesses in the financial system, in particular the rules governing the operation of credit institutions and the remuneration or remuneration policy of the latter. The level of prizes was in no way followed by the performance of the individual credit institution and the remuneration increased the risk to which credit institutions were exposed. We don't even know these facts. Let us only remember the so-called "Kramar's Law" and its million prizes for leading the NLB, which we all know of the results of the post-festum operation. By the way, it would be interesting to know what the epilogue of this particular prize is, and unfortunately we have not yet received from the representatives of the Government what the state of the matter is, or within this judicial procedure, this story. Interestingly, in such and similar cases, in spite of all the general abuse and disapproval of a particular solution or policy in Slovenia, we can never find a will for solutions that would limit such anomalies. We always have prepared excuses on violations of the Constitution, on non-compliance with European regulation and so on. However, once the European Union has adopted the directive, the issue of non-constitutionality is suddenly gone. According to the proposaler, the Directive also provides for the retroactive application of the provisions, as it provided that the rules on remuneration also relate to receipts made in respect of contracts concluded before the actual date of application of the rules in each Member State and recognised or paid after that date and to benefits for services made in 2010, which were recognised, but not paid before the actual date of application of the rules in each Member State. Unfortunately, this probably does not cover the prizes that have been paid in our banks over the past years. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the parliamentary group on the law or proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act. The proposed amendment to the Banking Act transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the European Union Capital Requirements Directive, which are designed to have a positive impact on the financial stability of financial institutions, to correct it and to strengthen it. This is a set of changes relating to the treatment of excessive and unbiased risks in the banking sector, which was also encouraged by inadequate remuneration practices. In particular, over-rewards have led to long-term instability and even the collapse of individual institutions, which has had a profoundly negative impact on society as a whole. Therefore, the so-called third directive commits banks and investment firms to a stable remuneration policy in a way that requires the elimination of unreasonable wage incentives that could lead to an exceptional risk or weaken the financial institution. A remuneration policy that does not comply with the new requirements will, of course, sanction. Of course, in the Group of Members, we wonder whether this third directive really does not provide or perhaps do not see a ceiling and a lower limit on the level of these awards. However, in our legal order, we will reach these forces in the manner provided for by this law. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we do not oppose them, and we believe that the requirements of the European Directive are duly reflected in the law. Otherwise, the provisions of the Directive in relation to remuneration at national level should be implemented with effect from 1 January this year. The actions of other components of the Directive must be carried out at national level by the end of the year. We have already received two reminders from Brussels, and a two-month period is running out, in which we will have to report measures to implement these rules, otherwise the case could be followed in the European Union Court of Justice. Even today’s confirmation of this law prevents us from doing so. Finally, in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, the adoption of this law will not be the last to break the tasteless practice of paying and receiving high and unjustifiable awards to certain directors of the Slovenian banks. So in the DeSUS Group, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Members, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues! So the law that we are talking about and dealing with after a reduced procedure, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, is to be adopted with a view to transposition of Directive 2010/76/EU. The deadline for transposition into national law for this Directive, once again, has expired seven months and a few days ago. And if we want to think and connect logically, why seven months and a few more delays, but if, of course, this law prevents any matter that is not clean, then we have waited seven months for something else to happen that can happen now if the law is adopted, we cannot. That's our first thought. The second point is the very clear opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that all regulations and other general acts must be in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 153 of the Constitution of Slovenia, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and emphasise that any non-compliance between legal standards constitutes a breach in administrative order and reduces the value of all standards. It also notes from the specific Banking Act and warns the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the legal basis for the issuance of the Bank of Slovenia regulations is flawed and therefore will not allow the issue of a regulation which could be in accordance with the law. The logical conclusion, according to such a statement, is that or we adopt an unconstitutional law, but if not, we certainly adopt a law that is inconsistent with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And the third content of this law, which we clearly point out in the Slovenian National Party, is the re-emergence of some forms of retroactivity. In this case, we are even faced with a word formulation that article 11 of the law represents some kind of unfair retroactivity. What retroactivity means in principle, we know it's not in law. She's not here. Back-up laws, in principle, do not really apply in exceptional cases. While we have missed the transposition of the directive, there is doubt after the warnings of the legislature that, at best, the law is inconsistent with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and with the repeated wrongs of retroactivity that appear in this law, we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party and we will decide in our vote whether we will oppose or abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. In the LDS, we will support the proposal for a new Banking Act, as it stipulates that banks must establish an appropriate remuneration policy for administrations and thus ensure effective risk management for the banking system. If anything, surely the financial crisis has taught us that the unfettered receipts of responsible managers and supervisors in financial institutions can lead to systemic risks, or at least to a large extent contribute to increased risks, which we have witnessed mainly in large financial institutions and investment banks in the United States, as well as elsewhere in the world. In fact, if administrations exert themselves for short-term profits and invest in very risky forms of investment, they can fall into the spiral of the collapse of the financial system, which started in the United States, continued in Europe and had negative effects on ever-growing economies. This bill legislates a European directive that represents the European Union's reaction to past developments in financial markets. The Directive and the direct law provide that the remuneration policy must be included in the risk management of the credit institution. As the government also points out, poorly designed remuneration policies to unforeseen dimensions may increase the risk that is only difficult to manage and is not manageable at all. At the LDS, we are aware that this financial crisis has not only led to a steady desire for the profits and benefits of administrations, but we must admit that uncontrolled investment in risky transactions has also led to this financial disaster to a great extent. We also have a similar experience in Slovenia, which is not entirely comparable, but it is visual. In fact, banks invested in projects that proved to be unjustified and non-profit-making in times of crisis during the great conjuncture. To a large extent, this has led to a false expectation of unstoppable growth, accompanied by huge access to financial resources on the world markets and consequently by irresponsible administrations that have provided these funds. Despite attempts at risk management such as this, the LDS Club reminds us that in the major global financial centres, this kind of activity continues and is whether it will be effective if only Europe responds to this question. Furthermore, will Europe be effective in this and beyond, or will we be effective here in Slovenia? However, with this novelty, we want to regulate the area in particular in order to ensure that the leading credit institutions, due to the short-term benefits they have in the area of remuneration, thus reducing the systemic risks they put into the market by their behaviour. This law will try to introduce a reliable and fair system of remuneration that is consistent with effective risk management. The concrete solutions provided by the law are to establish rules that the bank must also guide the policy and practice of remuneration and rewards that enable and promote proper and effective risk management when establishing a sound and reliable management system. It is further stipulated that the Bank’s supervisory board should appoint a remuneration commission if the bank is relevant to the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, it is stipulated that the Bank undertakes to disclose information on the policy and practice of remuneration and remuneration and that the Bank of Slovenia is authorised to lay down more detailed rules on remuneration policies and practices. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are convinced that this law is a piece of mosaics of the future restructuring of the financial market, which must become more stable and predictable in the future and, above all, manageable, so we will support the law, as we say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act introduces in our legal order a part of Directive 2010/76 of the European Parliament, amending Directives 2006/48 and 2006/49 as regards capital requirements for the trade book and for additional securitisations and the policy and practice of remuneration in credit institutions. The aim of the proposed legislative changes in the area of remuneration in banking institutions, which should by the way be adopted by 1. 1. 2011 was the removal of weak points in this area that were revealed in the financial crisis when it was found that the awards were not linked to the successful operation of credit institutions, but that the reward system even stimulated exceptional risks and thereby threatened financial institutions in Slovenia. Directive 2010/76, which follows the proposed legislative amendments, provides for a specific form of return, the rules on contract receipts shall also apply to contracts already concluded for 2010 or before the application of those rules in each Member State which have been recognised or paid and for remuneration, to services which have been recognised and not paid. Interestingly, a similar return to the so-called Kramer Act has stimulated part of the then policy and part of the Slovenian legal profession, a whole series of concerns about compliance with the Constitution, and the adoption of the directive does not raise similar concerns at this time. In accordance with the proposed legislative changes, the supervisory board of the Bank of Slovenia, which is important for the banking system of Slovenia, undertakes to determine the remuneration policy of the Bank for the appointment of remuneration commissions and the supervision of the implementation of this policy. The Bank of Slovenia, however, requires that it lay down more detailed rules on remuneration policy in financial institutions, as regards the tasks of the remuneration commission to be appointed by the Supervisory Board of Banks. Banka Slovenije is also charged with securing the systems of remuneration in financial institutions and collecting the necessary information for this purpose and their transmission to the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. Since the proposed legislative changes are in line with the system of remuneration policy in financial institutions, the function of effective risk management, we will support the proposed law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. The draft law transposes the Directive into the Slovenian legal order concerning capital requirements for the trade book and for additional securitisations and the supervisory review of remuneration policies. The main changes in national legislation relate to the policy and practice of awarding in credit institutions, which will contribute to more appropriate and effective risk management. The financial crisis has shown weaknesses in the financial system, in particular the rules governing the operation of credit institutions and the remuneration or remuneration policy of the latter. It has happened that the amounts of prizes did not in any way follow the performance of the individual credit institution and the benefits increased the risks to which credit institutions were exposed. Taking into account that the current Banking Act does not provide for a remuneration policy as prescribed by that Directive, provision will have to be made for the establishment of such a remuneration policy and practice in those institutions, which will enable and encourage appropriate and effective risk management. As part of the remuneration policy directive, as the time limit for transposition into national law, is fixed on 1 January 2012, only this part of the Directive is transposed in the draft law due to a short period of time. It should be pointed out that the Directive laid down a specific form of retroactivity or retroactiveity, as it provided that the rules on remuneration also relate to benefits made on the basis of contracts concluded before the actual date of application of the rules in each Member State and recognised or paid after that date, and to benefits for services made in 2010, which were recognised but not paid before the date of effective application of the rules in each Member State. In particular, the Social Democrats' Group supports amendments to the Banking Act's law, as the practice of paying benefits and awards to state-owned banks has shown, particularly during the financial crisis, that excessive and unbiased risk-taking in the banking system can endanger the financial stability of financial institutions and lead to systemic difficulties for countries. Among other things, inappropriate remuneration structures have contributed to this situation in some financial institutions, and in particular over-rewards in the banking sector have resulted in long-term instability being affected by short-term gains. Of course, the Group of Social Democrats considers that the system of remuneration in state banks has been wrong. We all remember many times, even here in the National Assembly, the millions of euros paid to Mr Kramar, which we have in fact taken from us by special law on the remuneration of managements based on 90% of the tax in fact. As a result, the amendment to the Banking Act provides that the Bank, in establishing a sound and reliable management system, must also guide the policy and practice of remuneration and rewards that enable and promote proper and effective risk management. The Bank’s supervisory board must also appoint a remuneration committee if the bank is relevant to the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia. Under this law, the Bank undertakes to disclose information on the policy and practice of remuneration and remuneration used by the Bank of Slovenia when comparing remuneration systems in the banking system. Of course, the Banking Act will not solve the problems that have arisen from taking too many risks on the part of the management of banks awarded by the supervisory councils. Let us recall that only these were appointed during the time of the government of Mr Janez Janša. However, it will prevent bad practices and the dangers that have occurred in the past due to the misappropriation system of bank administrations. So the Social Democrats' Group will adopt a proposal for a banking law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading. We will decide on the law in accordance with the timing of today's meeting according to agenda item 29. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the Bank of Slovenia. The bill was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary for Complementary Explanation of the Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u166	Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The reason for the amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act is the need to harmonise those provisions of the law governing the register of financial assets with the amendment of the Financial Insurance Act adopted by the National Assembly at the April regular meeting. The new Financial Insurance Act follows the European Directive 2009/44 and provides that it is not permissible for the entry into the register of financial assets to constitute an assumption of the validity of the Financial Insurance Treaty. Entry into the register of financial assets under the Directive should therefore not have a constitutional effect. The technical amendments to Chapter 4a of the Bank of Slovenia Act therefore eliminate the non-compliance with the European Directive and the existing register of assets at the Bank of Slovenia will remain a record of the established insurance. The insurance itself will arise outside the register, in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Insurance Act and other legislation. The new law is in line with the Bank of Slovenia, and the European Central Bank also gave a positive opinion. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law, both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. There is no representative of the panel for the presentation of the position. This is why the views of the groups are presented. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Zanoskar, who will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the parliamentary group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act is as follows. The nature of the proposed amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Act is of a technical nature, otherwise it is necessary to comply with the Financial Insurance Act. We have aligned this with the European Directive and confirmed it in the National Assembly for the month of April. The amendment of the law, in accordance with the legislation already adopted, eliminates the constitutionality of the effect of the entry into the register or the registration of the financial insurance contract, by which the liabilities to the Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank and the national central banks are secured for the validity of the financial collateral. In addition, the way in which financial assets are entered into the register adapts to the fact that more and more transactions relating to financial collateral are carried out electronically. Since it is possible to register multiple types of assets, the law is also adapted and amended accordingly. This law, however, will provide for a new stipulation that the provider of financial insurance must be in good faith with regard to the assets entered in the register. In the opinion of the DeSUS Group, there is no dilemma with regard to the proposed amendment, so we will fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, again. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that, at first glance, it does seem that there is a less difficult change and less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws. This may be true, but we believe in the Slovenian National Party that change is of substantive importance. First time. By means of this law, we realize the elimination of differences in the legal arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia compared to other members of the European Union. Secondly, the register will only provide a record of the established insurance. Thirdly, we introduce the principle of proportionality, which is essential to allow the cross-border use of bank loans as collateral. And fourthly, we introduce the principle of good faith and the principle of the protection of the proceeds of financial assets. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law and finally add that we would often like such clear proposals even when it is not a short or urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The need for the adoption of the amendment to the Banka Slovenije Act stems from the amended Financial Insurance Act, which has transposed the provisions of the European Directive, which has framed a single legal order for the cross-border use of financial insurance, thus eliminating most of the formal conditions traditionally applicable to insurance arrangements. This includes the provision that the registration of financial collateral is a condition for the validity of that provision only. This is why today a new law is before us, which stipulates that the registration of a financial insurance contract that guarantees obligations to the Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank or the national central banks of the Member States of the European System of Central Banks is not a condition for its validity. The specific law thus provides that the entry into the register of financial assets maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Banka Slovenije Act is no longer a condition for the validity of the financial collateral contract, whereby the manner in which the financial assets are entered into the register is adapted to modern business, where there is an increasing number of transactions relating to financial collateral carried out in electronic form. Among other things, it is provided that financial instruments are not the only type of insurance that can be entered in the register and that a provider of financial insurance must be in good faith with regard to the assets entered in the register. Since we supported the passage of the Law on Financial Insurance in the LDS, we are also predicting support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act aligns the applicable Banka Slovenije Act with the Financial Insurance Act or its last amendment adopted this year, which transposed Directive 2009/44 of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 2009 into our legal order. This Directive creates a uniform legal order within the EU for the cross-border use of financial insurance. With the amendments made to the current Banka Slovenije Act, we abolish the obligation to register the financial collateral contract for its validity, as the regulation has so far compromised the cross-border validity of the financial insurance contracts. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Ambassador Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u176	Hello again! The reason for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act is the need to harmonise the provisions of the Banka Slovenije Act governing the register of assets with the Financial Insurance Act. On the basis of the proposal for amendments to the Banka Slovenije Act, it will be established that the registration of a financial insurance contract which guarantees obligations to the Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank or the national central banks of the Member States of the European System of Central Banks is not a condition for its validity. With the proposal for amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act, we want to follow the principle of legal certainty, which is realized by eliminating differences in the legal arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia compared to legal arrangements in the Member States of the European Union. The law also follows the principle of non-constitutionality of entering financial insurance into the register, the principle of proportionality, the principle of good faith and the principle of the protection of recipients of financial assets. However, the main solutions to the law relate to the description of the financial collateral in the register of assets, which is maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Act, is no longer a condition for the validity of the financial collateral contract. The way in which financial assets are entered into the register shall be adapted to the fact that more and more transactions relating to financial collateral are carried out electronically. The Bank of Slovenia Act adapts to the fact that financial instruments are not the only types of insurance that can be entered in the register. It also provides that the provider of financial insurance must be in good faith with regard to the assets entered in the register. It should also be noted that in its opinion, the European Central Bank welcomes the intention of the proposal for this law to remove the formal condition for the establishment of the right of collateral on financial assets that can be used to secure liabilities to the central banks in question. However, it is expected that the provision of the proposed law whereby Banka Slovenije provides other potential insurance users with information on insurance rights established for the benefit of the central banks concerned and accepts information on insurance rights established on the financial assets entered in the register will provide greater legal certainty in the use of this financial asset for insurance purposes. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u178	So respectable secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues! I see that my predecessors have read everything from the explanation of this law and, of course, I will not read it myself, because it is an extraordinary technical regulation, coordination with our and European legal order and, last but not least, it brings certain changes, including benefits, and will be supported by the Group of Members. However, I would like to point out that we have today, in addition to this law, one we have already had, the Banking Act and we will have the Law on corporate income tax and the Law on Balanced Totals Tax, which are from this so-called financial package, and which are in fact more or less minor, drops into the sea in this financial area, which Slovenia would, in fact, still have with the credit crunch, with many problems of the company and not least, expect the bank in this Parliament. We would expect concrete and strong measures to rehabilitate the banking system, not least the invisible financial - financial situation and even more - we would expect action to accelerate economic activity and growth. Instead, we get technical papers that probably benefit some elites somewhere and have little to do with the problems accumulated in this country. So let me take this opportunity under this law and call once again on the Government, Secretary of State, to deal with, in fact, and please, with the problems facing Slovenia today and, of course, you can also let go of some kind of technical regulation that is too bad that it is in Parliament, but unfortunately for formal reasons it must.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I will not warn you that you have abused the position of the Group of Members because you know this. We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and, since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, I am concluding the debate on the law. The vote will take place in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, following the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The proposal was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. I give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of State Mateja Vraničar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u180	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on the Complementation of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons refers to the exemption from the calculation of the withdrawal and the payment of the tax deduction from incomes which have a source in Slovenia. For both of the solutions contained in the proposal for a law, we can say that it is a matter of supporting tax policy to the measures already laid down by other legislation. The proposal provides that no tax on the source of the interest paid by the State on the money of the borrower shall be paid, the State securities provided by that borrower to cover the business of borrowing own, i.e. state debt securities, and that no tax on the source shall be paid in respect of payments which may be paid under the temporary mechanism of ensuring financial stability in the euro area. The aim of the proposal is to support or facilitate the implementation of the own debt securities lending operations carried out by the State for the purpose of providing financial resources and to establish a clear tax regime concerning the provision of financial stability in the euro area by means of a tax measure. More specifically, according to the first exemption from taxation on a source, payments paid under Article 83 of the Public Finance Act will be exempted. It is the interest payments to the borrower for the funds it provides for coverage in the sovereign debt securities lending business. In accordance with the second solution, as I mentioned in the introduction, any payments made under the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia based on the Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area will be exempted from the tax withdrawal. I can conclude that the proposal for a law provides for two simpler additions to the law, which will have no significant financial implications. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the Committee's views.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues. The Committee considered the draft law at its 29th session, 28. 6. 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the provisions of Article 1 and Article 2 of the Law and on the title. Comments to the provisions of both Articles shall be taken into account in the amendments tabled. The proposed law included amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Parliamentary Groups of the Social Democrats, Zares and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The Committee did not discuss the content of the proposed solutions. In the context of the additional explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the amendments tabled by the three groups of Members took into account the comments of the service and that the title of the bill submitted would be edited in the final edition of the publication text in the Official Journal, since it was only a matter of supplementing the rules in force and not of amending them. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Zares and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to Articles 1 and 2 have been adopted and adopted. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. The opinion of the parliamentary group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is as follows. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. This is a relatively short law that solves the problem of payment of tax evasion in the event of payment of certain incomes, where the Ministry considers that the tax evasion would not be appropriate. In the first case, payments are made in the case of the lending of own debt securities in accordance with the Finance Act. This is the payment to be paid by the Republic of Slovenia as a deposit fee to be paid by the person who borrows Slovenian debt and securities at the time of the loan. The application of the general tax withdrawal mechanism in this case is not appropriate. The second case concerns any payments made under the European Financial Stability Mechanism, i.e. the European Financial Stabilisation Fund, under the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. If, on the basis of the guarantee contract, the Republic of Slovenia had to settle a certain obligation to the European Financial Stabilisation Fund, it should, under the general rules, withdraw the tax withdrawal, but also in this case, the bill-maker considers that this would not be an appropriate and appropriate solution and proposes an exemption from tax evasion. Because, according to our assessment, this is not a contentious proposal for a law that does not at the same time have significant financial implications, we will, as we say, support this bill in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u186	Colleagues and colleagues! Since we are probably all tired, a little malice or satire does not hurt. With regard to this Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, we find that something has really changed in this country. Maybe the state of affairs in the coalition, decay and so on, helped a little bit. In fact, if you remember another month, two, three, four years ago, we passed laws by emergency procedure because it was supposed to be or because the existence of a state was threatened, a natural disaster, and I don't know what else could have happened. Well, at this meeting, things are going smoothly through, we are dealing with them in the short term, and we find that they are only less difficult changes and additions. This is certainly progress for us, because such content could also be transformed into urgent procedures. However, the Government stated in the proposal that the purpose of the law is to support or facilitate the implementation of the own debt securities lending operations carried out by the State. "For the purpose of providing financial resources and," this is now what the order would hang on just for a moment, "to define a clear tax regime concerning the provision of financial stability in the euro area..." and so on. Whoever reads this carefully and tries to find that this is the purpose of the law, then of course it is a little strange and wonders whether it means "certainly to establish tax arrangements", that is, now by this law, that the tax regime has not been clearly regulated so far, that it was doubtful that it was weak, that it was incomplete. Anyway, if this has to be written in this law like that, then so be it. And another thing is, where the government says, "Slovak issuers have been more subject to the tax burden distribution by means of a gross-up clause to the issuer by means of a gross-up clause." Well, here too, one might wonder that it probably did not take three years to identify and then find that the Slovenian market is small, that the consequences are what they are, and that the law should therefore be amended. I hope that this is in fact because of the clarity and clarity of the legislation and that such dictions and the substantive changes that arise in relation to them are not made solely for such or other reasons or possibly because of any "different directives of foreign or domestic advisers or lobbyists". Doubts can be born much, for just before we heard, they are important, of course, every marriage is important. As important as that law is, it's a matter of judgment. We will therefore support this law, in the hope and desire that it is actually important and that it will contribute to a further, better and smoother work, of course, in all the doubts I have raised and which are for consideration also to colleagues and colleagues who devote a little bit more to the content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The proposal for a novel Law on corporate income tax introduces two new exemptions from the calculation of the withdrawal and payment of the tax evasion. The first exemption relates to the taxation of transactions which we have made possible by the recent amendment of the Public Finance Act, where we have determined that the State can intervene in the secondary market of equity debt by purchasing, selling and lending equity debt securities. As we then reasoned, possession on the secondary market is necessary to improve the liquidity and efficiency of this market. Under the current legislation, for such transactions where the Republic of Slovenia lends securities, the State should pay the tax, which constitutes an administrative obstacle, as it would be a transfer of money from one account to another account. At the LDS, we estimate that due to poor liquidity in the secondary market, State intervention is welcome in these times. And because we do not want to make it further difficult to carry out such transactions, we believe that the proposed tax exemption solution is appropriate. Finally, these interventions in the secondary market also affect the pricing of the Republic of Slovenia’s securities on the secondary market, which are a reference to price fixing for the new duties of the Republic of Slovenia on the market and also a reference to the setting of interest rates for other financial institutions of the Republic of Slovenia that are in debt on foreign markets. Despite our clear position that debt needs to be settled and greatly reduced, the real framework is such that it will not work without debt in the coming years. We must therefore also improve Slovenia's position on these markets through such interventions. However, the second exemption from corporate income tax relates to the exemption from tax evasion for possible payments under the Republic of Slovenia guarantee based on the Bank of Slovenia Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area under the interim financial stability mechanism. According to the law, the Republic of Slovenia provides irrevocable and unconditional guarantees for certain obligations of that company, including for all loans issued to debt securities and other closed transactions under the financing programme for the purpose of lending to euro area Member States in financial difficulties. Since in the event of a guarantee being cashed, there could be a situation that the Republic of Slovenia should pay the tax, we estimate that it is appropriate to exempt that payment. The Treaty on a European Stabilisation Mechanism, which will replace the interim mechanism, is also envisaged to exempt such transactions from direct taxation. As we assess in the House of Members that the law brings the right solutions, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons are necessary to avoid the payment of the tax to be paid by the Republic of Slovenia under two headings. First, due to the lending of its own, this is state and debt securities and secondly due to the possible cancellation of the guarantee under the Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia by ensuring financial stability in the euro area. The loan of own debt securities constitutes a loan of an agreed bond for a certain cover and constitutes a temporary transfer of bonds from the bondholder to a temporary beneficiary, which is therefore required to provide a certain coverage for a certain market value of the leased bond and to pay the agreed commission for the duration of the use of the bond. In fact, this business is not about selling and repurchasing the bond. The instrument of lending own debt securities is intended to be made available on the market of sovereign securities with a view to ensuring measures for smooth operation and the liquidity market by the Republic of Slovenia. However, according to the legislation in force, 15 % of the tax should be charged and paid at the time of the loan described. The second reason for the proposed amendment of the law is the adoption last year of the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area by which the Republic of Slovenia guarantees a shareholder company established to ensure financial stability. In accordance with that law, a tax payment would also be necessary in the event of a guarantee being made or at the time of payment of the liability of a shareholder company by the Republic of Slovenia. Since the proposed amendments to the law regulate the exemption from the tax liability in both cases, the proposed law will be supported, although the question is that, because of the efficiency of the work, both in the National Assembly, it would be worth considering adopting such laws in parallel with the above-mentioned laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. With the amendment proposal, the proposer wants to implement a tax measure that is potentially unnecessary for someone, but is important for the system, by supporting or facilitating the conduct of the lending of his own debt securities carried out by the State for the purpose of providing financial resources. The law also seeks to establish a clear tax regime for ensuring financial stability in the euro area, as well as to provide a temporary mechanism for ensuring financial stability of the arrangements proposed in the context of the preparation of the proposal for a permanent mechanism for ensuring financial stability. In addition to the law, two main solutions are laid down. One relates to the exemption from the calculation of the withdrawal and the payment of the tax deduction. According to the first solution, the tax on the source will exempt payments paid by Slovenia in accordance with Article 83 of the Public Finance Act. It is the interest payments of the borrowers on the funds provided by the borrower as a cover for the lending of own debt securities. The second main solution to the proposal concerns the exemption from the tax evasion of possible payments under the Republic of Slovenia guarantee based on the Bank of Slovenia Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area under the interim financial stability mechanism, which is the European Financial Stability Instrument. On the basis of the solutions to the proposed laws, the operation of the State will be administratively facilitated. Because in Slovenia as a payer it will not be necessary to calculate, withdraw and pay the tax on a source on the payment of income for which the proposed law provides for an exemption from tax evasion. Therefore, because of all of this, the SD Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u194	Respectable. Colleagues and colleagues. An interesting proposal for a law is before us. The right direction is to facilitate or facilitate the execution of transactions, including loans made by the State, as well as any possible payments made by the Republic of Slovenia or made by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Finance, has quickly identified measures to relieve bureaucratic unnecessary activities when they are carried out alone or when it comes to the Republic of Slovenia. Much less successful is the same ministry or government when it is necessary to relieve the Slovenian economy, or us, taxpayers, or anyone operating in that country. With the clear support of this law, I would like to ask and appeal that measures be followed by this measure to ensure the bureaucraticly unnecessary processing of all others, not just the countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you. Respectable. Consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is among those proposed by the financial or economic crisis on the agenda. Although the proposal is short and clear, it introduces two exceptions related to the application of the general tax withdrawal mechanism. The first concerns payments made in the case of the lending of own debt securities in accordance with the Public Finance Act, more specifically Article 83 thereof. The second case concerns any payments made under the European Financial Stability Mechanism under the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. In practice, not the first and not the second case has yet actually happened. Thus, it is very difficult to assess the public financial consequences and, according to the applicant's assessment, they cannot be material or irrelevant. However, there is no particular way to help ourselves with comparisons between the Member States of the European Union or the euro area. The Parliamentary Group will indeed support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law tonight, as part of the 29th paragraph of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive bill for the bill on billing totals. The law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Madam Secretary of State Mateja Vraničar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u198	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. The bill before you enforces the taxpayer's payment of the balance sheet tax as a remedy for the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The aim of the bill is primarily to stimulate banks to provide greater and more appropriate lending to the non-financial sector. The taxpayers are banks operating in Slovenia, both banks established in Slovenia and foreign banks, i.e. banks from the European Union and third countries, but the latter only for their branches or business units held in Slovenia. The tax base, which is the balance sheet amount of the debtor, is the value of the assets in the statement of financial position. The tax is paid once a year at a rate of 0,1 % of the tax base. It may be reduced by a tax reduction or benefit of 0,167 % of the average credit situation given to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs. There are two options for tax exemption. Thus, the exemption may be imposed by debtors where the average credit situation of the non-financial sector during the accounting period exceeds the average of those credits in the past accounting period by at least 5 % of the balance sheet total of the previous accounting period. The debtors shall also qualify for exemption if their state of credits in question for the last month of the implementation of this Act in the balance sheet amount is less than 20%. The bill is expected to have a positive impact on the economy by encouraging banks to increase their lending activity in the non-financial sector. This will make it easier for the non-financial sector to access the financial resources needed for growth and development. The bill pursues objectives that are not primarily fiscal. By stimulating the Bank of Slovenia, which was prepared for 22 Slovenian banks in average assets and loans to the non-financial sector, 15 banks in total amounting to EUR 11 million were found to pay the tax in the light of the provisions of the proposed law and the unchanged behaviour of banks. However, we expect banks that would otherwise pay the tax to increase on average the lending of the non-financial sector, thus reducing or eliminating the tax liability. Thus, the overall assessment of the financial impact of this tax is EUR 5 million, mainly at the expense of banks, which, for various reasons, will not be able to increase loans to the non-financial sector to the extent necessary to eliminate their tax liability. According to our assessment, the bill will have no financial implications for other public funds and we propose to the National Assembly that the bill be supported in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Bogdan Chapič, for the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u200	Have a nice hello again. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent, considered the draft law at its 28th session. 6. 2011 and 29th session, 28. 6. 2011. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made a general comment that the law submitted could be clearer so that the content and purpose of the standard could be clearly identified and the explanation could be more detailed. The Service also made comments on Articles 5, 6, 9, 10, 12 and 13. Some comments are taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which did not support the proposed law. The Committee was also provided with the material of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, namely proposals for amendments to Articles 8, 10 and 13 to eliminate the unequal treatment of individual entities and a letter proposing the use of funds from this fiscal resource, which, in accordance with the debate held at EU level or from the practice of some European countries, is intended to ensure the stability of the banking system and not for the general purpose of budgetary spending. The Committee began its consideration of the proposed law at its 28th session. 6. 2011. The Committee was informed of Banka Slovenije's rejection of such a tax concept presented at the meeting by the Governor of Banka Slovenije. The Bank also forwarded its opinion to the drafter of the law this year. The drafter also drew attention to the opinion of the European Central Bank on the Committee, which also contained a number of concerns about the solutions proposed, although he did not oppose them in principle. In view of the views presented by Slovenia, as well as the European Central Bank, a proposal was first put forward in the debate for the Committee to decide once again on the content of individual legal provisions on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. The Committee did not adopt this Decision. As the debate highlighted the many dilemmas raised by key actors, the view was expressed that the proposed solutions should be further considered before the Committee's decision-making, in particular from the point of view of their improvement. Therefore, the Committee’s consideration of individual articles and proposals for amendments to the Committee, which were prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, continued its consideration at its 29th session. 6. 2011. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out the shortcomings of Article 1 which does not define the essential content of regulation, i.e. the concept of a balance sheet sum of banks. The Committee did not discuss the specific content of the individual articles. On the basis of the amendments drawn up by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 6, 12, 13 and 14. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the amended bill, which you have received as an integral part of the Committee's report. At the conclusion of the examination of the proposed law, the Committee adopted a decision, taking into account the proposals submitted by the Association of Banks of Slovenia in its work, inviting the Government to examine the views of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and to take them into account in the development of further legal solutions in the area of banking.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u202	Good luck to all your colleagues again. Thank you for saying so, Mr President. In particular, in this law, I will present my position, in fact with the words of the Legislative and Legal Service, because I would like to say to my colleagues and colleagues in this law only whether we are aware of the actual functions and roles of this service. Recently, I am very sorry, I seriously doubt that, because if we were all aware of this, then, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we would not consider it as we have before us at today's session. Why did it creak? Very simple, purely according to the points defined, co-workers and co-workers in the Legislative and Legal Service. The introduction said that the proposed law could be clearer. The requirement for clarity of the law is based on the principle of certainty and the principle of certainty is one of the principles of the rule of law. Another time. Why might it be clearer, or why is it unclear? Because, in terms of clarity, there is a lack of definition of the content of the concept of which this law actually speaks. So the definition of the content of the concept, the balance sheet amount of the banks, is missing. This concept is partly defined somewhere in the middle of the law. If I continue, the subject matter of the proposed law is taxation. This requires the definition of four basic elements: the subject matter of taxation, the debtor, the base and the rates. Much more of this is not actually regulated by the proposed law. Only reliefs or exemptions for all of those elements are defined and the content definitions are not merely conceptual. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that the entry into force of this law should be specified - Article 14 speaks of this. It also points out that in preparing the law, the importance of explaining the proposed legal solutions should be taken into account. The explanation is insufficient. The solutions proposed are not sufficiently detailed. Why only a fraction of these statements, respected colleagues and colleagues? Because I don't know. For those of you who have not read, I would like to help and remind them of all these inaccuracies of this law. Second, because this marriage is really a difficult and important matter. I emphasize the difficult and important matter. However, even if a solution was proposed on the parent’s working body that the law was not suitable for further consideration, the power or argument of power was, of course, demonstrated and prevailed over the power of the arguments and turned the matter upside down. My colleagues and colleagues, frankly, regardless of the political situation, we suggest that we do not support the law. This law will cause damage. Since we do not want to cause damage in the Slovenian National Party, although we are sometimes the most prominent advocates of radical changes in state banks, we will not support this law because these proposed solutions are unfortunately not positive for the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we were skeptical from the outset until the introduction of the balance sheet tax, and we became particularly attentive after the warnings that came from the Bank of Slovenia and other stakeholders in the Slovenian banking system. Throughout the whole concept, the most scepticism is the issue of its effectiveness, which is that it will achieve its objectives in order to promote the credit activity of banks towards the economy or the non-financial sector. The tax is designed to provide that the tax base represents the total balance sheet amount taxed at a rate of 0,1 %. The essence of the law itself is tax relief, which amounts to 0.167 % of the state of credit granted to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs. In this way, it will try to stimulate lending institutions in order to divert part of the credit placements to the non-financial sector or to the economy because of the tax wedge itself. In the event that the bank would have a sufficient volume of loans granted to the non-financial sector in its portfolio, it would not pay the tax. It is also stipulated to the economy that if, according to the previous year, the bank increases the loan portfolio to the economy in its entirety by more than 5 %, the tax is exempt. At the LDS Club, we ask in particular two questions: What are the chances that banks and other lending institutions will turn the tax price into a mere charge on loans, and as a result we will put even more pressure on the economy? And secondly, do we not somehow force the bank into more risky business than it would have been necessary? This also leads to the following dilemma, since the tax is relatively low and will not significantly burden the banks, what effects are envisaged? Will the banks really be stimulated to lend loans to the economy if the financial effects are projected at EUR 11 million? At the LDS Club, we have decided to support the law, regardless of all these dilemmas, mainly in the sense that banks are given a clear signal that Slovenia is still in a credit crunch and that a more proactive approach to lending loans to the economy is needed? At the same time, we want to make the following clear and loud: that banks need to make sure that they are lending loans to the healthy part of the economy for profitable projects, and that they are not lending loans solely to reduce the tax burden. It is precisely those healthy cores of the economy and small and medium-sized enterprises that still point out that debt financing is difficult to reach. At the LDS, we also want to say the most important thing that is said too often. That the key problems of the credit crunch are on both sides. It is not only a problem for banks that would not want to finance the economy, but also in a cumulatively over-indebted economy that can no longer afford debt. On the other hand, we have a key problem in Slovenia's largest banks, which are capital-supported and therefore weaken their credit activity. In Slovenia, we need to come to the realization that we cannot or cannot afford our development anymore in order to finance it only through debt financing, but we will have to change the idea that development must also be based on ownership or, above all, ownership financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. There are many conflicting views on the law submitted in the interested and professional public. The proposed law justifies the proposed law as a temporary intervention or remedial measure, the fundamental objective of which is to encourage greater and more appropriate supply of bank loans to the non-financial sector and partly compensation for the provision of systemic support to the banking system during the crisis. At a rate of 0.1 per cent tax from the balance sheet of taxpayers' banks, the law also defines the exemption criteria on the basis of which the tax obligation can be fully eliminated. Both the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia have negatively defined themselves before the law submitted. The Association of Banks of Slovenia points out that the introduction of the tax could hinder the restoration of the bank's credit activity and, in the event of the introduction of the tax, the association pleads that the tax revenues are intended to ensure the stability of the banking system. In its rejection position, however, the Bank of Slovenia raises a dilemma, or by introducing a tax, we can force banks to do more credit while at the same time lacking quality projects that make sense and can be credited? In view of the conflicting views on the proposed law and the open dilemma on the consequences and effects of the adoption of this law, there has been a discontinuation of the treatment on the home labour body, but the continuation of the treatment has not resolved or further clarified the fundamental substantive dilemmas. The amendments adopted follow only the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Despite our concerns, we will support the proposed law in our parliamentary group in anticipation of its positive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again, a good day to all present and Secretary of State. The proposal for a bill on balance sheet tax in the second reading will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The draft law introduces a measure to remedy the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The aim of the bill is to compensate the State for offering systemic support to the banking system during the crisis and to stimulate banks to provide greater and more appropriate lending to the non-financial sector. Therefore, the objective of the bill is not, in fact, fiscal. The debtors are banks in Slovenia and foreign banks from the European Union and third countries, the latter only for their branches or business units they have in Slovenia. But they're not the storekeepers. While SID is also legally bound by the Bank, under the provision that the taxpayers do not pay the tax where the state of credit granted to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs is less than 20% but does not pay for it. The determination of the tax base is based on the entire assets of the bank. The tax rate shall be applied on a tax basis. Taxes may be reduced due to relief or benefit, loans to the non-financial sector in the form of tax reductions, which means that the taxpayer can reduce the tax liability to zero. There are also options for tax exemption. The exemption may be granted by the debtors where the state of credit granted to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs in the calendar year for which the tax is paid is higher than that of those loans in the previous calendar year, at least 5 % of the balance sheet amount of the previous calendar year. The balance sheet sum shall be calculated as the average value for each last day of the month in the calendar year. However, the debtors qualify for exemption even if their position of credits granted to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs on the last day of the month of application of this law is less than 20% in the balance sheet. More specifically, this means that the tax base is the balance sheet sum, the value of the assets in the debtor’s financial position, calculated as the average value for each last day of the month of the calendar year. The tax is paid at a rate of 0,1 % of the tax base. The tax reduction amounts to 0,167 % of the credit situation given to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs. Of course, the reduction cannot be greater than the tax rate. The bill is expected to have a symbolic impact on the lending of the economy. The proposal, however, introduces a measure to encourage banks to increase their lending activity in the non-financial sector. This will make it easier for the non-financial sector to access the financial resources needed for growth and development. In view of all of this, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal for a bill on balance sheet tax as it considers that banks should at least symbolically reimburse the State budget of the funds provided by the State for the recovery of the financial sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u210	So, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the President. In fact, this law shows the Government’s indiscretion of how to stimulate credit activity or exceed the credit crunch of the Slovenian financial system. The essence of the banking theory, or not least, is that the tax is not a punishment. And that's what this balance sheet tax does. Indeed, this law or this tax on the balance sheet total of banks is essentially a penalty for those banks that are not supposed to lend to the economy and therefore will pay a tax on part of their balance sheet. Taxes can't be punished. And that is precisely the key point that a number of experts have made against this law and show. This is not only the Association of Banks, usually opposed by those we wish to tax with some tax, but also by the Bank of Slovenia, which says so, and with which we also agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that this law will not achieve its purpose. Although the law has a good purpose, it will stimulate credit activity but it will not achieve it. This law is based on the assumption that banks do not want to support good projects that are sufficient, and therefore they need to be encouraged to do so with tax. It makes no sense, because banks live on good projects and loans, because they take their share of it, their commission. And if they were good projects, then the banks would have an interest in financing them. However, if these projects are not or are not recognised by the banks, and if they are not recognized by the banks, and if they are suddenly recognized by them, they will not encourage lending. This is nonsense, the esteemed government, what you suggest, is at odds with expertise and is in fact confused with common sense. The indiscretion that stems from this law is also that you obviously do not know the problems the Slovenian banking system has. The Slovenian banking system needs a thorough rehabilitation. It is difficult to restore its financial resources, lack of capital, but it has the terrible burden of some bad loans to such entire sectors of the Slovenian economy, and it would especially expose construction, and not least to many ownership projects in the past. So these are the problems of a banking system that, because of all these accumulated problems, can't even get through, or can't continue to finance projects. And now you've invented another tax, and it's supposed to stimulate bank credit activity all of a sudden. He won't. And if the banks already have to pay this tax, because credit activities will certainly not increase, they will either try to hide this tax base first, cover up, but if it is not possible, because there are only a lot of strict rules here, and we, consumers, users of banking services, will pay for it. Do you think this tax will be taken from the manager's wages in banks? So, I don't know, they're gonna send this money from Mars? No, this money will be paid by those who take credit in banks, these small survival loans, those who perform any service in banks, they will pay you this innovation in the form of a tax on the balance sheet total of banks. So, once again at the end, this marriage is a mirror. I will not use ugly words, but indeed the government's indiscretion to find answers to how to overcome a credit crunch, how to boost the credit activity of the banking system, and, last but not least, how to repair the banking system. Therefore, there will, of course, be no support for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you. Your Honor! The long beard which the idea of a tax on the balance sheet sum of banks and the different views and assessments of the various major monetary and financial institutions shows indisputably that we are dealing with a relatively unpredictable measure, which, if you want, is due to the financial and economic crisis and the fact that we are witnessing a smaller provision of funding to the non-bank sector than before the crisis. If the matter is further complicated, at least it is expected. After all, it is a market for monetary and fiscal authorities. In doing so, the European Central Bank, as Banka Slovenije, warns against incentives for lending, which could lead to distortions in the effective allocation of credits and sectoral imbalances in the real economy. In particular, problems on the credit demand side are also highlighted. The scope of the debt is large and the loans are expensive. At the same time, the Association of Banks of Slovenia also reminds the proposer that in May 2010 the European Commission supported the establishment of specific funds for capital interventions to be financed from bank charges collected through a newly introduced tax similar to what we are talking about today. If I can sum it up. There's a lot of thoughts. Direct, I stress, and direct opposites are relatively few. A lot of intermediates. Something has to be done, and not least, though difficult, in terms of comparability, quite a few European countries have introduced similar measures, whose common point with the proposal we have on the table is that the aim of the measures being taken is to speak to itself as not fiscal. Slovenia has some experience with a similar tax when the so-called speculative inflow of short-term hot capital was prevented. It is a period of time at the turn of the millennium, or what the Minister said graphically in the debate on the committee, after the repeal of the law at that time, the so-called short-term debt operation for long-term objectives began. The piano broke out, and it's also a mirror. What we have on the table is an experiment, I stress, an attempt to mitigate the consequences of the exposure of our economy to the credit market. In spite of the concerns, the proposed proposal will indeed be supported by the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. The legislative proposal that we are considering today is intended to accelerate the credit rate of the economic sector, as provided by the Finance Ministry. Unfortunately, after a thorough examination of the legal proposal and its possible consequences and scenarios in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not see any assurance that this will actually happen. The situation is more complex and requires a more systematic approach than an exclusive threat to taxation. Because the bill wants to change the credit strategy of individual banks and change their risk assessment, which is certainly an intervention in a free economic initiative on the market. This clearly forgets that one of the more visible problems of the Slovenian banking sector, which, despite rare exceptions in general, is also in a critical state of excessive final interest rates. These banks will be forced to lend beyond their own borders in risk assessments, so if banks are forced to lend beyond their own borders in risk assessments, they will account for the higher risk to a higher interest rate and thus lose their competitiveness in the European area. If we want to stimulate the issue of credit to economic operators, whether the country should approach either with guarantees and guarantees or banks with equity shares, it should be saved to the extent that they have adequate or sufficient core capital to allow additional lending. The solution found in the bill is that, if the bank wants to be exempt from tax, it has to show a 5% growth in the credit activity of the economy over the past year. This growth in credit activity was achieved by banks during the strong growth of the entire economy. But today it's not real. Therefore, there is a very high probability that the scenario will be next. For example, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which is also the most affected by the framework calculations, will simply pay the tax because it will be paid more than to expose its already weak portfolio in the area of lending the economy. The amount of the tax will slowly pass through the prices of the services to the committees. Thus, we can only find that the law has done much more harm than good. Certainly we should listen to sharp criticism from the Bank of Slovenia as a professional body. Even the European Central Bank has pointed out the inappropriateness of the law and warned against such a way of encouraging lending, as they believe it is even a risk to financial stability. Comparison with practice abroad is also inappropriate. In some cases certain bank charges and tax compensation have indeed been introduced, but the situation in the banking system of these countries is completely different. Assistance in the crisis was carried out in a different way. However, the accrual approaches are systematically adjusted according to the size of the institution, the amount of profits, the State aid received, the exposure of financial instruments and many other factors. The purpose of this measure abroad is even to limit the indebtedness of banks. In Slovenia we have de facto problems with bad loans. Bank balances are weak due to weaknesses resulting from defaults and unrealistic valuations. The key question is whether it is wise at this point to increase the risk exposure of the bank by threatening to force it. Do we even understand how anomalous banking space we have and how such a simplified measure cannot have a positive effect in these circumstances? Many banks are disinvested today and even deliberately reduces the balance sheet amount. However, good bankers will not change the risk assessment on the basis of an administrative measure such as this balance sheet tax. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group due to all the above-mentioned statements of this law, of course, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the opinion of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a bill on balance sheet tax. We therefore have before us the proposal for a new Balance Sheet Tax Law, which, according to the proposaler, is intended to establish a mechanism that will release the credit crunch that is still present and help the banks decide to better credit the non-financial sector. In this way, the introduction of the law will ensure that bank loans fall steeply by stimulating banks to increase the lending of economic operators. The applicant foresees that banks will respond to the projected taxation by increasing corporate lending and by reducing or eliminating the tax liability as provided for by legal solutions. Nevertheless, the financial impact of the introduction of an additional tax is estimated to be only around €5 million, which, in our opinion, is a very difficult and modest ransom. In the DeSUS Group, we fear that it is a proposal to introduce a new tax that reduces the potential of banks, their capital adequacy or indirectly burdens consumers of banking services. In the current economic and financial situation, when there is no oversupply of money on the market, the banks are prepared to financially support all those projects of creditors that promise good results and there is no doubt about it. Therefore, in our view, instead of taxing, the Government should consider more stimulating forms of measures, such as tax reliefs to banks that are prepared to support the financial economy with appropriate interest rates. We also ask ourselves in the DeSUS Group whether the envisaged legal solutions will have a negative impact on those banks which build their business policies primarily on the business of the population. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the proposer simply wanted to stimulate banks to increase the lending of economic operators by means of a bill. However, we are confident that this stimulation will not and will not be effective. We are also convinced that this tax, which we are instituting, will come both as a conversion back, as a boomerang to borrowers, so that this cost will surely mean an increase in the cost of financial transactions. And it is precisely because of all these concerns that I am mentioning that we will not support this bill in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, within half an hour of the vote, following the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the beginning of the day, this is a preliminary proposal for a law supplementing the law governing the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u218	So respectable president, respectable colleagues and colleagues! For the third time in this House, we are now on the same subject, i.e. how to address the conflict of interests of individuals who are both directors or members of the boards of strong economic operators in a majority or majority state ownership, and at the same time are silent partners or hidden associates in companies operating with those same companies whose directors are in fact. It is therefore a matter of eliminating the conflict of interest that exhausts these economic operators and, as a result, eliminating the so-called so-called ‘systemic corruption’. When we examined one case on the Commission for the Control of Public Finance more than a year ago, or also on the basis of media releases, when the director of the important, strong Talum company in Kidrič was at the same time a silent associate of a silent partner of a company operating with Talum, we have actually found that such cases can be more in the country, and that it would be nice to know which of the directors, i.e. members of administrations and all the other authorities of management and control in Slovenian companies in the majority of state-owned companies, are at the same time silent members of the company at home or abroad. Of course it is not, the Government replied that it is not competent to find out, we have not found out, and today, in fact, none of us has any idea or perhaps Mrs Mateja Duhovnik, the director, the president of the administration of Dars, at the same time any silent associate of any company operating with Dars or with the SCT. We have no idea whether any president of the board of strong energy companies is at the same time a silent partner of any supplier, equipment and, in fact, so-called systemic corruption. So the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has on several occasions proposed to amend legislation, in particular the Company Act, in order to remedy this. It has always been rejected in this House because of this or one point, the comma in the text, and in the end only came a bright light by one of the ministers who is not today the minister who proposed it, and try to change the Capital Investment Management Act to be the right place to regulate the matter. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose a law supplementing the law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia by a new Article 6a, which has the title “Delivery of conflicts of interest” and reads as follows: “A company owned by a majority of the direct or indirect ownership of the Republic of Slovenia shall not enter into legal business with another economic company in which a silent partner is a member of the management or supervision body of the executive director or procurator of an economic society in the majority or indirect ownership of the Republic of Slovenia or a immediate family member of one of those persons. The majority of direct or indirect ownership companies of the Republic of Slovenia must not also establish a silent company. All transactions contrary to this provision are null and void." So now we want to do the same in a different way in a slightly favorite version. I am also pleased that the Government now, in principle, does not have such severe reservations and difficulties with this proposal and, of course, on behalf of the proposer, I hope that we will finally eliminate this source, this potential source of systemic corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to give an introductory explanation of the opinion. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia was approved in May 2010. This time we are considering the proposal for a second novel of this law. I will not repeat the content of the proposal for a law that Mr Vizjak made clear to me, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the Capital Investment Management Act may not be the most appropriate rule to address this issue, since this law applies only to capital investments owned directly by the Republic of Slovenia. While other rules apply to the management of indirect-owned capital investments, they include the most important management code. Despite these concerns, however, the Government supports the objective of the proposed novel, namely to prevent damage to state property or, more precisely, damage to public funds. At the same time, the Government notes that the proposal by the Group of Members and Members needs some additions so that the amended law can truly achieve its objective. And I hope that we will be able to reach agreement with the relevant amendments on these necessary additions in the future. It is true that the proposal prohibits the conclusion of management business as well as the procurators of the Executive Director. Without the prohibition specifically relating to the conclusion of business on behalf of a majority-owned company. For public finances, it is harmful to conclude transactions which could result in the use of the funds of a majority state company for an economic company in which a silent shareholder is a person who can influence the decision-making of a majority state company. The prohibition on the conclusion of transactions should therefore apply to companies owned by a majority of the Republic of Slovenia as such. The prohibition should also be extended to a prohibition on the conclusion of business where a silent participant is not a member of the administration or management of a majority state company but is only a member of the supervisory board. The proposal makes sense to supplement it by also preventing the establishment of silent companies by companies owned by a majority of the state. It is also necessary to regulate in the transitional provision what would happen to silent companies that already exist and would be in breach of the prohibition when the amendment is in force. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a new law is suitable for further consideration, but we expect that the amendments in the legislative procedure will remove the dilemmas and shortcomings I have pointed out in this speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! As we have repeatedly expressed our readiness and will in the LDS Club, we have also confirmed by voting that we are in favour of all possible conflicts of interest in our society in particular in the economy. Although this is a complex area, particularly from a supervisory point of view, we are united that this area needs to be better regulated. We have already set up a system framework for the prevention of conflicts of interest by means of a new Law on Economic Companies, where we have written down that management can enter into a legal business with another company in which itself or its immediate family member or all of them have a share that reaches a tenth of the basic capital or itself or its immediate family member is a silent associate of another company or a participant in its profits on any other legal basis only with the consent of the supervisory board or the management board of the company. The Novela Law on Economic Society was created as a systemic response to the partial solutions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, as of today, seeks to further standardise the problem of dealing with silent partners even for companies of majority national ownership. The new Capital Investment Management Act seeks to prohibit any business of a company where management, together with family members, is a silent shareholder in a particular company. We agree with the proposed solutions at the LDS, but we wonder why the applicants focused only on silent companies. If we really want to achieve an end to the conflict of interest and to prevent any business relations between connected persons, the prohibition must be linked under the revised Company Act. In this context, we mean that the prohibition must be extended that management should not conclude any legal business where the private member or his immediate family member has any share or that the manager or his immediate family member is a silent member and, substantially, in the event that he is involved in any way in profit. In addition to silent companies, management can cover its share in the profits of a company which cooperates with a company owned by a majority of the state in a variety of other ways. Finally, the question raised was why the applicants focused only on silent companies. What about those where ownership is not hidden or where such cases would not make sense to set limits? In doing so, we would point out once again that only tightening the legislation and normative and administrative banning or regulation will not work without proper supervision. Already today, supervisors, in the interests of companies controlled by them, should take appropriate action in cases of conflict of interest and, as a result, of possible damage to companies. However at the LDS Club, we will decide on the basis of a discussion on the final support of the law and we will not oppose the law at first reading. In any case, we believe that the law must be upgraded and improved in further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you very much, President. The Capital Investment Management Act is changing this time in relation to the issue of silent companies and this issue of silent companies is not discussed for the first time, as has been said. In doing so, it could be concluded that the relationship, at least in individual aspects, of the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this is ambivalent and should mention at least two. For the first time, it has been mentioned that the Company Act is not the right one to regulate this relationship, today we find that the Capital Company Management Act is not the most appropriate one and that this topic is put in such a way because we did not know where else to put it. And second, at least in our judgment, the government's ambivalent attitude is at the beginning of changing the subject of silent societies and radicalising the ban or restrictions that are currently being imposed on silent societies. In the parliamentary group, however, we also mention that perhaps it is not the best time to amend the Capital Investment Management Act, as it is said that the amendment of this law is being prepared for other reasons, because, by the way, the fighting is abolishing the agency and some are collecting signatures to abolish the management, while some others are reporting to the anti-corruption commission, and that this leadership should ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided. In short, a few would say intertwined situations. Our experience in quiet societies is not particularly rich, we think of experience in Slovenia - probably more or less theoretical, but this has entered the circle of our practical thinking when the Commission gave it to oversee public finances one of such silent societies and its links to the agenda of its meeting. Although everything that was said at the time did not prove to be true later, a mechanism for further reflection and, of course, for the preparation of changes in laws was set in motion. For the first time, when a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies was proposed, it was not just points and commas, as has been said today, but a very radical cut. At that time, it was suggested that even a chapter on silent societies should be deleted, so that we simply give up, that this is a normal practice in the developed world. At that time, this proposal was rejected. Not only because they know it elsewhere, but also because it's been asked, but what about the potential investment potential offered to silent companies? What about "know-how"? What about the knowledge that someone might want to travel through silent societies, what about contracts concluded by silent societies, what happens to workers if silent societies are shut down quickly or become unemployed and so on. In short, questions have also arisen, or perhaps there will be no right of action in view of already concluded transactions in legal legislation, as we had at the time. At that time, as we know, this bill was rejected. Later, a proposal for a different version of the law appeared, adopted in such a way as to restrict the operation of businesses with silent companies by requiring either to obtain prior consent or to report on the transactions concluded, depending on what percentage of ownership would be either above or below 10%. Thirdly, there is an amendment to the silent companies today, in the form of a proposal for amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act. In doing so, the motioners refer to the words of the former Minister regarding the discussions on this and what was common to ministers and proposers: to ensure the prevention of conflicts of interest, to ensure the prevention of damage to state property or state property and to restrict business at all. How, how, and where, in what marriage, we deal with it today. The subject of the ban shall be companies owned by a majority of the state and those members of the management boards of those companies, as proposed by the proposers, are executive directors, prosecutors and close family members. The prohibition is to operate between such companies owned by a majority company with silent companies and to sanction any violation of those prohibitions, following a proposal from Members, for the first time is the nullity of the contract and for the second time, the suspension of employment. The government has thought about this and prepared its expert response, which, as I mentioned in the introduction, has even radicalised the requirements of the proposal of Members. There is a significant change in the articles, a substantial intensification, thus preventing conflicts of interest and damaging state property. The Government shall, as the Secretary of State said in the introduction, also include prohibitions on members of the supervisory authority, prohibit the additional establishment of silent companies when it comes to companies owned by a majority of the state and the abolition of silent companies with State ownership. In three months, as he says, it would be good to do so, in a way that the silent partners will also pay in appreciation. Sanctions remain, as regards the nullity of contracts, and they weaken slightly with regard to those who violate them. So now it's no longer a job loss, a loss of a function performed by someone. It would probably remain a sanction in terms of a financial fine. In addition to all of this, because it is a process that has barely begun, we are in the Group of Non-Aligned Members - Solidarity agreed to support the continuation of the procedure, but to try to hear some answers to the questions raised in this regard and to summarize very briefly what we are thinking and what questions are being asked. So the question is, what about companies with no majority state ownership? With companies with, for example, 45 % of the country's equity share or a smaller or larger share, even 49 %, for example. Can't there be conflicts of interest in these companies where there is no majority state ownership? Does this percentage, which can be, this difference, which can only be 1% or 2%, as regards ownership, ensure that there will be no damage to state property? We ourselves do not think that this is preposterous enough to complement, complement, and expect answers to be made in order to avoid unnecessary new discrimination between companies that may only be separated by modest differences in the ownership share represented by state ownership. So, if we decide. In these three proposals of the law, the focus of reflection on silent companies has gone from abolishing silent companies to allow silent companies that are privately owned to behave normally in market conditions in the global economy and now with today's proposal, to tighten the proposal itself by the Government so that the restrictions are greater than those proposed in the basic text. So we will follow up on the answers and we will support the debate to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. I am sorry, Mr Chernač, I have overlooked Mr Bogdan Čepič, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please, Mr. Chappich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u226	Nice greeting, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that changes to laws must always be considered and aimed at resolving the problems that arise from the interpretation of individual laws, especially when we are also talking about the possibility of conflict of interest. The Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, with first-signed Member Jozet Tank, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, which seeks to resolve the position and influence of shareholders in companies vis-à-vis companies owned by a majority. In principle, I believe that these definitions or restrictions should be in another act, in some code and not just in law. But if we have a proposal, we'll deal with it. On the basis of a proposal for amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, a new article will provide for the elimination of conflicts of interest so that the management, procurator and executive director of an economic company, which is owned mostly directly or indirectly by the Republic of Slovenia, will not be allowed to enter into legal business with another company in which he or his immediate family member is a silent associate of another company. However, if a legal transaction were to be concluded, such a legal transaction would be considered null and void. Unfortunately, we note that something will have to be rewritten in the law, regardless of the illegality of such an act. The operation of silent shareholders in companies is defined by certain other laws, and this should also apply to companies owned by the State, irrespective of the share of ownership or the management of companies where the State is a direct or direct majority owner or co-owner at all. In short, with the amendment of the law, we are again trying to write down something that, by nature, should be in force in one way or another. The current regime of a silent society in Slovenia legally allows a relationship between members who are not registered in a court register and are therefore not available to the public. Or it's business moral. In this way, according to the Group of Members and Members, there may be a conflict of interest in companies in whole or in part state ownership, which could result in damage to state property. This could be an immoral act of management. We're talking on probation, of course. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore agree with the basic orientation of the law, which we will also support at first reading. However, we will continue to supplement the law with substantive comments by prohibiting the establishment of silent companies by companies owned by the majority of the country. It will also be necessary to determine what happens to those silent companies which, after the entry into force of the novel, would violate the ZUKN. We will therefore support the Government's proposal to address this issue in transitional provisions, with a transitional period of three or six months for the cessation of the operation of a silent society. Indeed, in accordance with Article 165 of the ZGD-1, when a silent company ceases to exist, except in the case of bankruptcy of a silent company, an account must be made and a silent participant paid in cash, unless otherwise agreed by the contract. For all of this, the Social Democrats Group will support amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act at first reading. In the second reading, it will support the addition of the law to the comments of the Government and also to our comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, as has already been said today, we have already proposed twice an appropriate regime for so-called silent societies. In particular, because in practice it has been shown that this institution has in no way brought any good, no new added value. But it was, apparently, and is also a cover for individual abuses, for individual acts that may even be measured against crimes. In short, there is nothing good about the regulation of quiet societies in our country. It must be said that the ruling majority, who, interestingly, is growing stronger with each exit and has growing support in the National Assembly, has both rejected these proposed solutions, and one of the normative arrangements that would be necessary in these circumstances, not because we are not making illusions about how to solve the problems that arise overnight, but because it is in some symbolic way to demonstrate the direction of this country in this area and to make an additional declaration of transparency in its operation that this regime has not been adopted. We have never proposed the abolition of silent societies. We have proposed transparency, we have proposed a public publication of these relations and data relating mainly to ties in cases where it is a matter of state-owned enterprises or companies owned directly or indirectly by the State. It seems normal for us that if someone assumes a responsible leadership role in a state-owned enterprise, in an institution that is owned directly or indirectly by the State, that he will work primarily or exclusively in the interests of that institution and the State and that he will ignore all other interests, including narrow private interests, during the time he does these things. And in one of the specific cases, or in a particular case, which we have also dealt with in the Public Finance Supervisory Commission of the National Assembly, it has proved that this is not always the case and that in this particular case, the public service was only a mechanism for the exercise of private interests. Interestingly, in this case nothing happened, that the person under consideration had neither the responsibility nor the resolution nor anything else, despite the fact that it would have been good for the company in charge and for the supervisory board of the bank in which he was sitting at the time, if that had happened. In short, it is possible to agree that the law cannot fully regulate this. The mechanism to regulate this area is called the liability mechanism, it is called the enforcement mechanism and, above all, it assumes that the government, in particular, will act responsibly in all these cases and that it will consistently respect the protection of the interests of public finances and the State and entities not acting in this interest, resolve or withdraw. Of course, this is not the case in this country. We are witnesses to something ineffective, inefficient, inefficient, not to say anything worse, to the conduct of individuals who run individual state-owned or state-owned enterprises, but nothing happens to them or have any support from the authorities, which certainly shows that there are some background relationships that are not public, which are not transparent, which are based on these non-economic practices, as regards their relations with these public companies and to this state-owned property. It is impossible to understand why someone who is well-paid in a state-owned company is practically doing everything he does to the detriment of this state-owned enterprise and does nothing to it. Is it not possible that, in the background, a different arrangement that we do not know about may not even be known to him by the one responsible for his strange conduct? In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, this is why we are re-emerging in an attempt to legislate at least part of these legal bases with regard to silent societies. Thirdly, we try, they say, "that it goes to third pleasure", we will probably be successful in this attempt, at least in the light of the responses so far. However, it must be said that the new proposal concerns, in particular, the leading employees of companies owned directly or indirectly by the State and the prohibition on the conclusion of transactions between them and companies in which the leading employees of a state company or their family members are silent members. We have limited ourselves in this part because we have assessed that there is more in this composition of the National Assembly and that it is not possible to accept this authority; however, much more should be accepted, much more. Today, Slovenia is at the point where some very clear changes need to be adopted, in particular with a view to enhancing the accountability of those who run these state-owned enterprises and run individual institutions that are state-owned or para-national. This would be necessary, because the "worst" expression that has been created in some cases is so strong that it already seriously threatens the stability of our public finances and the entire system in both financial and legal terms. Although silent societies and silent partners are legally regulated in the Economic Society Act. In the Slovenian legal order, this silent company was placed in a circle of private companies before the adoption of the Company Act and we have somehow taken it into account in our legislation by example in the German states. In Slovenia, however, there has been no practical experience of their operation and we do not know them today because it is a silent field, a hidden field of which we know nothing. There is therefore no legal practice in this area. The essence of the operation of this silent company is that it is in a contract between a silent company operator and silent shareholders, that this contract is not entered into a court register, and therefore there is no known relationship between the parties in a silent society and that this internal form of relationship makes it possible for the public to have a secret relationship in a silent society and, consequently, the conflict of interests of the individual shareholder in that society. In the context of the market economy and developed competition, where the country is very limited in this field and where the power of these para-national companies is limited, these silent companies can represent an important contribution or some new added value to faster economic growth and the development of individual economies. In Slovenia, however, there is not a single case of good practice. Not a single example of good practice, we are looking at this area for the third time today, and to this day we have not heard one example of good practice that would tell us that this institution is good and that it must be preserved in the way it is enshrined in the legislation in force. On the contrary, all the cases that we have faced so far speak of the fact that this institution in Slovenia was mostly or to a large extent, if not entirely, abused for some disguised purposes to hide from the public, to avoid the tax burden, or even possibly for corrupt or other crimes. And as I said, when we dealt with a specific case in the State Assembly at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, the government has done nothing to address these anomalies. Nothing, despite the fact that these relations have been made public in this particular case, and it has been clearly demonstrated that the mission of this state company, led by this silent partner, was not to be increased through these relations. We have also committed the government to obtaining data on how much of this is in Slovenia. We didn't get the data. This must be avoided in some way. As a result, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not understand the resistance to the minimum regulatory regime in this area, but we do not understand why the Government has so long opposed this area to the rule of law, at least in a minimalist sense, despite the fact that we are aware that this law will not eliminate inefficiencies in direct or indirect management of state-owned companies. As I have already said, this cannot be done with the law, but with the exercise of direct responsibility towards those who run these societies. Let's say a concrete case that we can mention and which is becoming more and more up to date these days is Darsa's case. Several times it was found that the administration did not act and did not act in the interest of the company, several times it was found that the failed SCT was in a privileged position as early as April of this year, when it was known that it would not live to a good end, it was paid, and no payments had been received by subcontractors to date, despite the fact that there was a direct obligation to do so and despite the fact that these works had been carried out irrefutablely. The government did not investigate why this was happening in this way, and why did this administration act so irresponsiblely? So far, no one has taken any responsibility or sanctions for these inappropriate and inappropriate conduct. We're wondering, where did the hundreds of millions of SCTs get out of state affairs? How is it that no one in the management responds to the fact that they haven't frozen all their assets yet where the Supreme Court ordered them to do so? Instead of the tens, hundreds of millions of euros paid by all citizens who have poured into tax oasis accounts, the competent authorities are now investigating birdhouses and a camera that costs several hundred euros, and whether it has been paid or not. Of course, this law will not regulate all of this, but it means a small contribution towards more responsible governance of state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, we support it, but we also support the Government's proposals to improve and complement this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDS Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Member, Mr Jozet Tank, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia proposing that a new article should be added in the law, which would address conflicts of interest so that the management, procurator and executive director of an economic company which is in the majority, direct or indirect ownership of the Republic of Slovenia must not enter into legal business with another company in which he or his immediate family member is a silent associate of another company. However, in the event that a legal transaction is concluded, such a legal transaction shall be considered null and void. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the SDS proposal, despite some legal systemic concerns, because we believe that the bill is suitable for further consideration. In a later discussion, we will also support the Government's proposal or amendments, which proposes that the amendment be amended in a substantive manner by also preventing the establishment of silent companies by companies owned by the majority of the country and also by determining what happens to silent companies that break the law after the amendment has been implemented. Finally, the SDS Members' proposal is followed by the amendment of the Law on Economic Companies, which was adopted in April at the National Assembly on the proposal of former Zres' Minister for Economy, Mrs Darje Radic. With the amendment of the law, we have arranged cases where there can be conflicts of interest between managers. For this reason, we have adopted a regulation stipulating that the manager of a business with another company in which he or its immediate family member or all of them have a share, whether he or he or she is a close family member is a silent member, or whether he or she is at some other legal level or on the basis of participation in the company's profits only if the supervisory board of the company agrees with such a business and if he or she is excluded from the decision. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we are surprised that they have not decided on more fundamental measures in this Group because of their general opposition to the establishment of the Agency for Capital Investment Management by the SDS. Last but not least, as a result of the remarkable meetings of the former Minister of Economy in the Janšev government and one of the current ministers of the current government, or as a result of the fact that the AUKN replaced the first HSE supervisor with the new supervisor, Mr Shalamun, who was the Director of the Energy Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and a member of the Supervisory Board of the GEN Energy, who, at the same time, had become an official of the AUKN. These days, however, if we can believe in media contributions, along with another member of the Agency's administration, he should be dealing with the issue of managing a huge coal mine. Of course, over all corporate governance rules. AUKN, or the way it is arranged, is obviously a mistake. In the latter, we are more confident in the Group of Messengers, indeed, from month to month. The Agency's mistakes and inappropriate behaviour in the Zares Group, like the Prime Minister at the outset, have been treated as childhood diseases, and now it is increasingly showing that the disease of AUKN will not be healed. It all shows that this agency or, above all, its administration has not been able to assume this very responsible function of professional management of state property. The basic objectives of the Agency's helping to raise corporate governance standards for companies that are in the hands of the state and to increase transparency of state-run companies are moving away. To that end, this is due primarily to the management of an agency, which we cannot at all claim to be independent and to decide on the basis of professional criteria. Instead of dealing with management standards, it focuses on how to gain as much power as possible and meet the various stakeholders. In fact, the AUKN is becoming a remote power centre from the country that individual lobbyist groups are trying to use to achieve their objectives. Let me mention that former Economy Minister Darja Radic, because of the impact of individual lobbyist groups or the suspicion of corruption by one of the members of the administration, suggested that members of the administration be dismissed a while ago, but did not then come across a hearing with Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The wider public has repeatedly challenged the planned personnel tsunamis planned by the Agency within its powers. Mr Danilo Grašič, a member of the board of directors of companies owned by the State, is expected to intercede several times to employ his acquaintances. This is supposed to be done systematically and in several state-owned companies. For the time being, most members of state-owned administrations have not yet wanted to be exposed, but two presidents of state-owned administrations are the Presidents of the Administrations of Elektro Ljubljana and Peko Tržič. Mr Grasic's actions were informed by the Minister of Economy in order to prevent Mr Grasic's further recruitment. The Presidents of the boards of the said companies stated in their letters that Mr Grasic was pressing them to hire or contract his acquaintances. Mr Grašič is expected to act as a representative and a member of the AUKN administration in his intervention for the employment of his acquaintances in state companies. That he performed as a representative of the AUKN was also counted by the two Presidents of the boards of state-owned companies who informed the Minister of Economy. In both cases, it is also common that Mr Grasic recommends that the management of companies owned by the state of their knowledge, regardless of their human resources needs, be made aware of the human resources needs of businesses and regardless of the appropriateness of the proposed persons. Both acquaintances of Mr Grašić should explain to the management of the companies what they could do with them, even though they do not need such services at all. Even more worrying is how Mr Grašić's acquaintance should have acted in a specific case. Its role is intended to be indirect, namely to act in the interests of the administration, as a link between the administration and Mr Grašić. In those days, we have also learned that the President of the AUKN Government has reported to the anti-corruption commission for the alleged impact of lobbyists on its leadership. The Prime Minister is expected to decide to apply because there is a suspicion that lobbyist Mr Janez Zemalerič and Mr Drago Isajlović had a major influence on the leadership of the Agency. Here I would also draw attention to one of the last, in our view so far more controversial behaviours of the AUKN. This is an example of the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Credit Maribor, where the AUKN, without adopting a strategy for the development of the financial system in the form of a sectoral energy policy and without the consent of the Government, is the possibility of voting for a measure to increase the bank's authorised capital for the public supply of shares of NKBM and empowering the Agency to transfer the country's priority right to entry and payment of shares of NKBM, although the government has not taken the decision. However, the AUKN has decided on its own that the priority right may be transferred to limited liability companies that are 100 % state-owned and have available funds or untapped credit potential that are not yet linked to ongoing projects. The Agency has transferred the State's rights to purchase new shares of NKBM to three companies in 100 % of the country's ownership. This is on Gen Energija, Elektro Slovenije and Mail Slovenia. In this area, too, the story has not yet been concluded. The latest action by the Capital Investment Management Agency, when it was widely announced that they would carry out an audit of the operations of NKBM over the last five years, certainly also affected the fact that today the stock value is only 6.6 euros, which means that all three of the companies mentioned under the NKBM recapitalisation have already created a loss. Not to mention that the AUKN makes it possible to pay unwarrantedly high awards to members of the supervisory boards in companies in which the country has a dominant influence. The Agency, on behalf of the State during the economic crisis, imposes even higher awards for members of the Supervisory Boards than, for example, the previous government at the time of the economic boom. For example, the average prizes of members and NLB supervisory board presidents amounted to EUR 290 in 2004, EUR 21 000 455 in 2007, EUR 12 000 284 in 2009, EUR 7 000 390 in 2010 and EUR 11,000 in 2011 in the AUKN proposal for a fixed share of the annual prize for members of the supervisory boards, or EUR 16 000 500 for presidents plus an additional meeting amounting to around the same amount as in 2010. That is why Mrs Dagmar Komar, Head of the Zares Franco Juri Group, President of the Government of Borut Pahor and President of the AUKN administration, addressed a delegation's initiative to ensure that the prizes are not increased or limited to decisions adopted by the Government at the beginning of this year. The decision on the recommendations and remuneration of members of supervisory authorities in companies concerning the limitation of the effects of the financial crisis represents the objectives and expectations of the Government or the Republic of Slovenia as owners. The Agency, as solely a public investment manager, is not its owner, must take them into account, even though it will have to change its criteria in times of economic crisis. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the Prime Minister of the Government should stop pressing the ostrich head into the sand. The proposed responsibilities for the work of the AUKN to the Agency alone and the National Assembly and, in the latter case, the anti-corruption commission are, in our opinion, irresponsible, especially if we are aware that the responsibility for the appointment and discharge of the Agency's organs lies primarily with the Government and not with the National Assembly. Under the current law, the National Assembly of the Bad Part of the AUKN cannot directly sanction it if the Government does not decide to do so. Only the Government can propose the discharge of the Agency's bodies. The problem of the Agency’s leadership composition, which is attributed to it by its strong incompetence and overinterest with certain lobbying and influential individuals, is indeed the biggest problem. But the problem, in our view, is also the regulation of the relations between the Government, the National Assembly, as a representative of the owner and the agency as the manager. It is also a matter of the responsibility of the Agency's authorities for their conduct, the Agency's powers and could also be listed. Therefore, the way in which capital investments are managed after barely more than half a year of operation of AUKN is subject to a thorough legal correction, which means that a change of law, but not this, is much more necessary. As I have already said in the introduction, we will support the proposed amendment in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The most recent amendments and additions to the Company Act have been new to provide that the manager, executive director or procurator of a company should, if there is a conflict of interest in the conclusion of a legal business with another company, whose member or family member is itself, or if he is involved in the profits of that company on any other legal basis, such as a silent shareholder, of course, is not usually known about the conclusion of such a legal business to obtain the consent of the Supervisory Board of the company. So in theory, in marriage. In practice, it's a lot different. This provision generally applies to both the private and the public sector, i.e. as state-owned companies. However, as a particular problem in recent times, silent companies in particular have shown themselves. Why is it a question to form a silent society? The answer to that, of course, is simple. Such companies are largely designed to carry out those transactions in which the interest of the operator is that their participation is not disclosed publicly. This form therefore appears in different areas of the economy. However, the problem arises when this instrument of a silent society is being misused for the personal exploitation of the power and position it has before the entry into society of a future shareholder. In particular, we have in mind economic situations when it comes to state-owned enterprises and when the director of a state-owned enterprise influences the selection of a particular supplier. The supplier will surely find it difficult to resist the Director’s desire to become his silent partner. Of course, such an offer is not impossible by the supplier. The director of a state-owned company, who is already a silent participant, will also find it difficult to resist in order to give up cooperation - with whom? With you. We have cases like this, and unfortunately, they're still in position. For the private economic sector, a silent society is not such a big problem. However, the particular problem of a silent society is becoming extremely large in relation to the private sector. In this case, a silent society is not and cannot be a legitimate instrument. At least one of them show me? Can only an instrument of corruption allowing abuse — what? Power and position, of course, goes into private pockets. The amendments and additions to the Economic Companies Act adopted did not prevent such situations. The attempt to delete the provisions on the silent society of the Company Act, as already proposed, would also not solve the problem in its entirety. This problem solves the bill that is currently before us, and we will gladly support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I'd say that for the end. It is obvious, given the Government's position on the proposal of this law, that we can also agree on something in Parliament. Unfortunately, because of such or other prestigious battles, it sometimes takes too long, but obviously, as we can see, it can. Obviously, we all find together that with the success of the elections in the package, not all the minds of this world come together. At least we are partially satisfied with the attitude of the remaining government coalition, which, unfortunately, only after the bad three years, somehow managed to finally listen to the opposition. With this bill, we will round up the problem of silent societies if we can call it that. Colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party began to rescue him with their proposals a good year ago. It's been a long time. I believe that solutions with common powers could be found earlier. Finally, such open questions and suggestions, attempts, when it comes not only to naked populism, are still a great deal. You'd do well to listen to them on the government's side again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you. Your Honor! With regard to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the DeSUS Group is as follows. Let me begin by summarizing the content of our position on the issue of silent society, which has been dealt with three times through the proposed amendment to the Company Law. We did not agree with the total abolition of the Institute of Silent Society. While advocating a greater degree of transparency of business through the prevention of conflict of interest due to the economic leverages of members of management and administration who are simultaneously involved in another company and are engaged in a business between such companies, we supported a government proposal for amendments that in some way adequately addressed this issue. The situation for the resolution of irregularities reflected in the practice of dealing with silent companies has thus been adequately addressed and sufficiently addressed when it comes to companies and the conclusion of business at the level of the private sector. The greater problem of the silent society institution is certainly evident when it comes to the business relationship between the state and private companies. When it comes to a business relationship between a company owned by a State and a silent society in which the authority of the management or management of that State company is itself a participant, due to the imprudentness of participation and business relations in silent society, there is a great potential for abuse of state property and, of course, for the evaluation of the public interest that the management of state property must demonstrate in favour of all citizens and citizens. Such rejections are, of course, morally and ethically unacceptable and contrary to the principles of integrity and integrity and the principle of good and good governance. As a result, it is not only appropriate but also essential to prevent any anomalies which constitute the possibility of damaging state property. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposed amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act, which advocates preventing a conflict of interest which is certainly present in cases of such links. Following this proposal, which is before us, a prohibition would apply between the management, procurator or executive director of an economic company which is predominantly direct or indirect property of a country with an economic society where that person or its immediate family member is involved as a silent member. It provides for the nullity of such a closed business and as a sanction for the termination of that person's function. Former Minister Radiceva has already agreed to such an arrangement in the case of amendments to the Company Act and has taken the view that this should be handled separately for state-owned companies. We see, however, that in its positive opinion, in the proposal for further modification of the content of the proposal, the Government added to the dictatorship the proposed provision on the elimination of conflicts of interest and went even further. The findings and evaluation of our parliamentary group to the proposed content are as follows: the law will be supported in our DeSUS Group at first reading. In order for the law to be as good as possible, however, we consider it appropriate to combine both proposed content. Therefore, to prohibit the conclusion of business transactions by a member of the management, management and control body of a state company with a company in which it is itself or its immediate family member is a silent member, to prohibit the establishment of silent companies by state companies and to impose sanctions on the nullity of both the concluded business and the exclusion from the post of management or supervisory function. So these are the things that we agree with in the Group of Members, so, as I have announced, we will fully support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has Franz Bogovich, to prepare Matjaž Zanoškar, then Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u236	Good afternoon, distinguished President, colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry of Finance. I am pleased that, from the views we have heard now from the parliamentary groups, we have found that most of the members of the groups support the adoption of a rule of law that wants to demarcate or limit the fact that state-owned companies will not engage in business with companies in which there are silent partners. This is a problem that we have faced several times in Parliament and I also think that, given the culture of business, the culture of politics in our country is a thing that is more than necessary to be regulated. From the point of view of the members of the groups, particularly from the points of view of the Zares Group on certain problems in the management, management and operation of the AUKN, I expect that, given that today's first reading, the Prime Minister has even made an application for the leadership of the AUKN Anti-Corruption Commission to clear up these issues, because I think that in the area of governance of state property it is one big cancer in the present day, and we certainly expect Members and certainly citizens and citizens to do what the AUKN and the Government first set up this law on the establishment of this agency, that is to draw up a strategy on the management of this asset and that this strategy is confirmed by Parliament. Today we can truly be surprised at some of the moves, but above all we can be surprised because they are not actions agreed upon in Parliament. We see the most often that there have been and are still differing opinions about these moves, and we can really ask ourselves, who is running large government assets today? In this way, we will indeed come to the conclusion of the situation, that there will be a universal view that public property is bad for the masters and that it is best to sell it. Public and state property must be managed properly and economically and, in particular, the management strategy of this property must be set up here in Parliament. That is why I expect to get the government's proposed state property management strategy for the second reading, so that we know who is drinking and who is paying in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. He's not here. The word is Willy Rezman. Let's get Breda Rochean ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you very much. In my introduction, when I presented the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Solidarity, I mentioned a different attitude towards this issue of silent companies and, among other things, that the signatories to this proposal initially demanded the abolition of silent companies. Later, the 15th was signed under this material when it represented the position of the SDS Group of Members denied it. And just for the sake of clearing up, so what someone really proposed and who misquotes, I took into my hands the material signed by the 27 SDS Members, which is dated from 15. 12. 2010 has already been repeated, there has been another one, and this is repeated with exactly the same text, with the same verbal errors, only the order of the signatories has been replaced. It states on page 3 of the Objectives, Principles and Main Solutions: "The main solution of the law is that the legal basis for the establishment and operation of a silent society is abolished." And hereafter: "In the case of silent companies, it is a systemic problem which leads to the possibility of damaging primarily state property. The abolition of silent companies will prevent the possibility of silent shareholders in companies where the Republic of Slovenia has an indirect or direct ownership share." On page 6, the proposed Article 8 is replaced by the following: It reads as follows: 'In the third chapter, the title of a silent company shall be deleted' and 'all articles from including 158, up to and including 167, shall be deleted' and, if this does not happen, the penalties provided for in Article 9. This sanction, the new added sanction, states that a fine of thousands to 4 thousand euros is punishable by a responsible person if a silent company does not initiate a procedure for the termination of the company in accordance with Article 10 of this Act, which states that the procedure must start within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. Well, it says here more than clearly that someone demanded the abolition of silent societies. Since the signatures of their own hand are attached to the back, it is likely that it is also more than clear who claimed this and that this is all repeated in the explanations of the articles. That is why I think it would be right if those who denied the fact that silent companies wanted to be abolished, however, were to correct this by recognising the wrong indications.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan. Have Rado Likar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I must say that this scrupulous effort to prevent the operation of silent societies and to end them, as we have just heard when the proposal for a law on economic societies was being considered, is a sign of solid Slovenian perseverance. Nice. I think it is high time that those who, on all the different routes and options that are available in legislative procedures under different laws, achieve what they want. However, I do not think it is likely that the absolute abolition of silent companies will be possible, but it is good that, in certain cases and here, when cases of responsible persons in individual companies are in the majority or direct ownership of the State and in cases where these companies are in the majority ownership, indirect or direct ownership of the State establish or have already set up silent companies, that the restriction is provided here, however, because, if not, it would be logical for that entity to be either a natural person or an economic company or a State owned by a majority, the majority owner of an economic company to prevent the restriction of business with silent companies owned by a particular economic company or, in general, the prevention of the establishment or establishment of a silent company by an economic company in a majority, indirect or direct ownership of a country. I think it is right and I think that the opinion of the Government is clear enough, sufficiently understandable, that, subject to certain amendments to this law, the Government considers that it would be useful to confirm the State's Capital Investment Management Act and to amend it later in the second reading, so that, if I may say, it would be so acceptable or with a slightly harsher word, "sustainable" because this form is not directly applicable now and, of course, I will vote together with colleagues to decide that the law is suitable for further consideration. However, I expect that the applicants will be adequately prepared to participate in the law's corrections so that they will be more acceptable than they are in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The word has the love of Likar, to be prepared by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. I should also like to say in the introduction that I am pleased to support this bill, both on the government side and on the part of individual parliamentary groups. The concept of a silent society in itself makes it feel like something secret, something mysterious, inconsequential, and it is now widely known, say what a business is, what a limited liability society is, what a company is. What, though, is a silent society or a silent companion, which already sounds more alien and we do not really know what kind of society it is? Indeed, we do not have much experience in the field of the operation of silent societies in the Slovenian legal order. It may also be due to the fact that these contractual relations in silent companies are not entered in the register. It must also be acknowledged that the human imagination or innovation, that it is boundless, especially the innovation of various managers, I will appoint them to be the yoke of gentlemen, who would like to get to some property as quickly as possible at the expense of someone else. Of course, because it is a little difficult with its own work, and especially it takes a long time. And the appropriate means for doing so is also, in many cases, inconsistent and loose legislation, which then allows these individuals to be richly accounted for, even at the expense of damage to state property. In the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, we were already familiar with some cases, and the Commission also called on the Government to obtain information on the existence of such a relationship for all the authorities of the management and control of state-owned enterprises. If I am not mistaken, this information has not yet been received by the Commission. With the proposal of the Management Act, the amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act in the SDS, we wanted to prevent it from going to a conflict of interest in the management of a majority, indirect or direct state-owned company. In a way that is prohibited, the law prohibits the conclusion of legal transactions between the management, the procurator or the executive director of an economic company which is owned by a majority company in which it is a member or its immediate family member a silent member of that company. This is already the second or third attempt by the Slovenian Democratic Party to prevent this institution from exploiting the silent society institution to create privileges at the expense of limiting competition. We have already proposed, as has already been said today, that a chapter on silent societies would be deleted from the Company Act. We have also proposed that each business relationship be entered into a court register, otherwise such an act would be null and void. Well, the government is this proposal, and Parliament has also rejected this proposal and the next attempt has been made by amending or amending the Law on Economic Companies, and also by the ruling coalition, this proposal has not been adopted if the substance of the Law on Economic Companies, which governs this area, is also regulated by companies that are privately owned and not solely owned by companies that are owned by a majority, directly or indirectly by the State. And to some extent it was possible to agree with that. Today we have before us a proposal to supplement a law that contains only two articles and the essence is to prohibit the management from making legal transactions with another company about which he or his family member is a silent member of this society. And, as Mrs Pečanova said, if this bill is not "digestive" at the moment, it will probably be during the parliamentary process, it will be possible to add some more salt, some pepper might be suitable for final adoption, and that it will also in practice revive and achieve the results that we want to achieve by doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you very much, colleagues! With the support, the amendment of this law, which we have given on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have already said there that silent societies are therefore formed when, of course, it is in the interests of the operators that their participation is not made public. And the problem of such a quiet society becomes when it is a relationship between the state and the private sector. The finance and this is what we've been talking about here, they've been writing a lot about the affair with Mr Daniel Toplek, not just because the director of Talum is now a while ago and he's just a member of the board and he set someone else there. However, I say, not only because of this, but also because of the fact that the Chairman of the Governing Council of the NCBs is Maribor’s new credit banks. In these contexts and with what is also happening, which some fellow Members have also pointed out during today's debate with the NBA Maribor, of course, when this affair came on schedule, we requested the Slovenian People's Party from the Minister of Finance that Danil Toplek be dismissed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor. Nothing's happened until today. So now after 20 years, less than 18 years, we are correcting, amending legislation and a lot of things in the legislation proposed by governments to parliament, which was mainly prepared by known lawyers' offices, and for which millions of euros of money were being given, comes slowly outside that it ruled both from government to parliament in connection with corruption, lobbying precisely those who had money and power, and so that, at the end, when authorities find out, they actually can't prove anything to anyone. From tax havens to these so-called silent societies and the surface of silent societies of silent associates, there are still straw owners, postal collectors and then, of course, credits given by both the NCBs and the largest Ljubljana Bank, but today those who earn 500 euros and 700 euros have 170 euros in pensions, fellow members from government parties, they are now rehabilitating these banks because they are still in the positions of the people who have proven themselves and have in spite of all this legislation elements of corruption, but because they are on the safe side, on the government's, government's safe side, unfortunately nothing happens. That's why, I'm going to say, the trials the opposition is proposing, I'm going to say, just some "light of hope" that some things will change over the years. It is totally unacceptable, not just this case; the directors of public enterprises, one of the directors, so the majority of the state is the mayor today and has the millionth value of one of its private companies and how did it come to this? With the salary at that company? Probably not, because then Members who have relatively good wages to this Director would have something to do with it, at least some. For some I know after years that have been in the National Assembly for many years, in fact, they have nothing and no such machinations have gone. Therefore, not only will it be necessary to propose a law on the seizure of property if someone is in criminal proceedings, but it will probably be necessary to take a step further and simply draw a line in this country and find out where individuals are from. In order not to be general, let's say, I don't know, in a road company, one or the other, even in our places, you have to ask yourself where the director, who is today the majority owner, the assistant who owns most of their property, where does their property come from? Where did you get this to become, and today is the value of the company, I don't know, 5, 10 million euros? So, hard or you won't convince me that this is legal and legitimate. However, that legislation helped to change the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, and we also saw it in Elan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr Bezjak has the floor to prepare Mr Urh or Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Welcomed Secretary of State, fellow Member and fellow Members. As the people's proverb says, "It's good to go to third," maybe because today it's also 13th, so that everything matches the negotiations. I think it's right for this law to be passed. We have completed the Capital Investment Management Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? What do "silence" even mean? The silent companies and the silent shareholders are legally regulated by the Economic Companies Act, Chapters 3 from 158 to 167. Typical silent companies are characterised by the participation of only two entities: a silent company operator and a silent associate. What's a silent companion? It is legal and does not bear the rights and obligations of a silent company, but is informed and co-decisionable and hidden to the public. We have repeatedly pointed out the problem of silent partners, since it has been found that these silent partners in silent societies are doing great harm: harm to the State, damage to the assets of economic operators, and harm to the State for their own interests. We have warned of many examples of acquisitions, from companies to different individual members, who are silent members. Not to mention golf courses, forest estates and so on. It is not right that we have waited and spent so long, and we have by no means wanted to pass this law on silent associates and on silent societies. It is true that today may be the right time for the government to overlook and see the need to act and cooperate with the opposition and take a step forward towards a better tomorrow. Despite the fact that the government is now divided, but I don't think it's ever too late, and today is the right time. Why it is important that directors in state-owned companies cannot be silent partners in various private companies. Nor are their immediate family members or women, etc. We know that in this way they have been making money for private purposes, from economic operators or from state-owned enterprises, even to foreign countries where the taxation of this money is minimal or not at all. And it is important, in particular, that we want the proposal of this law to be public, that all citizens and citizens know where someone in a spider network is connected to an economic operator. That is why I believe that today we will be so brave that we will actually adopt and confirm this first reading of the law. However, I absolutely agree with the Government that certain things need to be added, finalised in a second reading and that the law will be clear to all citizens and citizens. In my opinion, it is important that the state withdraws from the economy, that the state has a 25 plus share and an impact on the financial part of the business of economic operators, and not on decision-making and setting up, the political setting of directors or administrations in companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Petan or Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. It has been mentioned on several occasions that for the third or fourth time we are trying to take a positive step forward towards eliminating the anomalies, frauds of financial transactions of illicit fraud and the theft of the country, and we have not been successful three times. We hope, after some statements, that this time we will put the law at least a second reading. But the first thing I want to say is, I don't know what the situation is at home or what kind of pressure our journalists are under. In previous discussions we had a 4 hour hearing, in principle everyone agreed, and I announced that the next day there would be no words in our media, words, and there was no. And I'm afraid there won't be any owners pressing the press tomorrow either. I cannot understand that journalists on such a socially important topic would not write down a word. For even yesterday it was not when we voted here on the point that we would be dealing with remittances in these tax havens at the next meeting. We supported it with the vast majority and not a word. Imagine the pressure our journalists are under, because otherwise it would indicate their total unprofessionality, those who report from Parliament. Completely unprofessional, and I don't believe in unprofessionality, I believe they're under pressure. And probably there are a lot of capital owners in conflict of interest, which is what this law is trying to prevent. Of course, I'm curious, there's been a lot of very confusing things about what's been going on lately. On the outside, as in yesterday's vote, for example, in the debate on these, about the country's robbery through tax havens, it seemed there that you seemed in principle for. This is what it looks like, but I don't think the developments with regard to the Capital Investment Management Company are clear, and sometimes I have some ability to see something between the lines. In fact, I thought that Mrs Komareva's director had recently taken some positive steps to request the replacement of one silent associate, Mr Toplek, as director, the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor. She also requested Mrs Duhovnikov's replacement, which seems to be also probably a silent companion, as has already been said today. And I wonder if you're honest? Because I see the Prime Minister sending the government to the anti-corruption commission. It would be positive, but, you know, Mr. Zemlarič certainly did not lobby against Toplek and against Duhovnik, these are birds from the same nest. I'm sure it's not. And it's a blurry reality, a smoke screen set by a government coalition. However, if Mr Klemenčič does something on the anti-corruption commission - he has recently taken quite positive steps - he also writes today how justice has protected Mr Thaler against other countries and Mr Zalar boasts of what he has done positively. We've done worse in justice! Read today on the front page of the Work, what is the situation with us and what is the situation in other countries with regard to corruption of the European Member and the investigation. And if he does anything else here, then it's likely that what a famous professor said would happen: "If they can't keep Klemenčič quiet, they'll call him stupid and they'll put him out of his mind." Yeah, that's what was said, and literally no one denied that it was in the back. Look, this phenomenon or the evil of silent associates, the repeated silent, quiet, is huge, obviously huge. And looking away when you see that something is wrong to suggest tax oasis, and no one wants to write a word down, they can't. And if I believe the press, someone from a party was doing what they're doing today, but the last time in the paper it said he was doing business for certain Maribor entrepreneurs, because there were some people locked up from the Zares party. So these things are far from being transparent. For this reason, I plead that we are as transparent as possible and that we actually support and improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u250	There's 48 seconds left, so I'm gonna try to say what's bothering me the most. The fact is that this is already the third attempt by the Slovenian Democratic Party to carry out these 21st century cancers in Slovenia in terms of economic machinations. At first, we tried the Company Act, and they said in the Government that this is not the case, that it is in another law; clearly, we know how they are directed. And then they told us for a second time that this is what we should do in the Capital Investment Management Act. Well, we said we'd do it. I am now very pleased that this proposal will be adopted. However, I fear that when it has been announced that it will have to be changed thoroughly, there are only two articles. Unless we're going to write all those Slovenians who belong in the first grade now that that doesn't apply to those, then maybe we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you. A list of all applicants who are also present is concluded. However, Mrs. Vranič has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you very much. As I have already announced in the introduction, we consider that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. In short, I have also pointed out those shortcomings which the law contains and, in our view, should be addressed in further consideration by amendments. These are very specific additions or amendments to the law that eliminate individual legal voids, which also prohibit the establishment of silent companies by companies owned by a majority of the country concerned in essence by the regulation of transitional provisions. I note, however, that today's debate has been much broader than the content of the bill itself, and in essence I have to respond to some of the points in this regard. First of all, as far as strategy is concerned. The Agency is finalising the preparation of the strategy and I expect the strategy to be sent to the National Assembly before government holidays and can in fact be dealt with in the autumn when the second reading of this proposal is also made. Given that the Capital Investment Management Act has established that the Capital Investment Management Agency is a State-owned body, I cannot really comment on their activities and on some of the activities that have been exposed to debate. In view of the first amendment of the law, the powers between the Government and the agency are quite clearly divided and, in fact, there are two, say, more or less independent and independent bodies. The debate also gives the impression that we have even a bunch of silent partners within state companies, but the facts or information currently available to the public do not confirm this. We have one example where, in fact, the manager of one of the state-owned companies of silent shareholders in another company, but it has not been shown that there has been any damage to state property in this case. Action at the moment may be taken in accordance with the legislation in force. As I have already mentioned in the introduction, we agree that a silent society in connection with the management of state-owned companies can represent moral gambling and should therefore be regulated and agreed to be regulated in the Capital Investment Management Act. I think, however, that the assessments that were made in today's debate on enormous damage, which, because of the silent shareholders in state-owned enterprises, are somewhat, not a bit, exaggerated. The emphasis on strong corruption and other practices must also be distinguished from the issue addressed by the proposed law. The proposed law refers to the prohibition of participation in silent societies. It does not speak of directing money into tax havens, nor of preventing corruption. Here these areas are governed by other rules and I believe that we will continue to discuss these rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you. Since all the advertised debaters who wanted to have the floor received the word, and the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else would like to discuss it? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor. Everyone has five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u254	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, on behalf of the proposer, I express some kind of satisfaction that this matter, that is, this law, which seeks to eliminate one part of the conflict of interest and, as a result, the systemic potential, will be abolished in the future. I think this is an important step and, in fact, I am expressing some bitterness in this that we could have done this some year ago when the Commission for Public Finance Control first warned of this deviation and it was not some hypothetical sideshow or a deviant phenomenon. This was quite concrete in one case revealed, in the case of a prominent SD member, Mr Toplek in Tallum, who, at the same time, was the President of the Taluma Board of Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor and, at the same time, a silent associate of the silent associate of the company that was engaged in the business with Talum and was therefore involved in the profits of this silent associate. Of course, on the committee we also heard some people who later argued or apologized to Mr Toplek, but this systemic phenomenon or this phenomenon indicated that there could be more in this country and now we even have a persecution or the start of a capital outflow abroad into some tax haven. We can only wonder how much of this capital came from some silent companies or how many, of course, such hidden state directors are in these options. That's possible. We wanted to get assurances from the government that we would at least expose these people. The government did not want to participate or said that it would not ask these state directors. Then we proposed a law that was, I'd say, quickly rejected, and another one that was, too. And now, finally, when these coalition ties are loosened, the government is also becoming a little more susceptible to solving such problems. I am aware that there are quite a few problems or that there is something more to be done with the law, to repair it, to upgrade it. However, this law certainly has nothing to do with one of the pains expressed by one of the fellow Members of Parliament, namely, Member Slapnik of Zares with the pain of AUKN, i.e. the Capital Investment Management Agency, where we had already warned SDS Members that it was a fog, a super-corporational management where there was confusion of responsibility and, of course, immediately after the establishment of this AUKN, certain ministers or leaders of coalition parties, who would blow this fog here and there, who would set up important people and, finally, who would have influence. In particular, he was here, of course, critical indeed through the leader of this party, including the Minister of Economy. It was more or less ridiculous misunderstandings that could be quickly resolved in some serious society, but it was not meant to solve problems, the aim was to eliminate people who did not like one or the other option, so it was argued on some of the staff because it wanted to have an impact on the economy through these personnel. So this AUKN is actually one of the mantras of this coalition when it actually illustrates the barrenness of this corporate work. Just as we have seen today quite a few proposals, which are barren, which will not produce results, some proposals, we have adopted, which have also been barren, have not solved the problems in this country, and therefore we have so many accumulated problems in the economy and in the financial system. So we hope that at least with this law we will solve a handful of problems, and of course this Parliament is waiting for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. So this law, in particular this area of silent societies, just proves how far Slovenia is from Europe. I'll base it nicely. As I mentioned earlier, we have already tried twice with the change of silent societies, the law on silent societies, given that in Slovenia the judicial authority does not work as well as does that it is not possible to regulate this instrument on this side, which is possible elsewhere in Europe, so we have tried to make this public and, of course, it has always been the government's view that this is not because of that, because of that and, of course, the most pro-social reason was that this is not part of the Economic Society Act, where we started it and that this is part of this law that we have now proposed. Next. I was very struck by what the Secretary of State said a few minutes ago, because there is no such terrible economic damage in this area due to silent societies. Yes, Your Honor. How do you know? Do you have this information why, for example, the Commission didn't get it to control the budget if you know that it's not such a damage? We can close the public meeting if you don't think you need it, but I don't think that's necessary. That's what you say, you don't know that information and that's what you're saying because it doesn't fit that content. I'm glad if there's any support for this law, and I'm worried about what I've already mentioned, that I don't know what to do if it's going to be about those finals and I don't know what the clause is, that's fine. We do not claim that this is the final text. We can fix it, and that's exactly what we're saying. Accept the offer we're making, and then we can amend it. There's no problem, but if it goes to the content page it'll fail then it's the other thing. I can also put this in combination with what we voted yesterday to discuss these tax havens as well. And here we can ask ourselves how much money has already gone into these tax havens? One hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, five hundred million, do we have that information? It just came from a long time ago that 300 million is the least. Now we hear that there is probably more to it, and if we link it up, how much had to be recapitalized by the New Ljubljana Bank — 300 million or something? I don't know if it's funny to anyone, Madam Secretary, with all due respect, but we connect people. If the money was poured, somehow he deserved it, where did it come from? If he left Slovenia he had to be deserved in one way or another, he could also be credited. And that went out, and now some holes show up, someone's not coming back. Yes, it can be linked because this is the easiest thing to say, the state bank, which is a 'national interest', has a hole and we have to recapitalise it. Why? Yeah, I can do that. If we don't have this information, and if I don't have all the right to think in this direction, when you give me the data or I don't mean you in particular, our government, and the appropriate institution, you will correct me and I will say okay, I made a mistake. But until then, I have the right to think that. And now there's one more thing. Why are we so far from Europe? Our attitude towards this problem, which is now either terribly large or only large or is smaller, is second until we get the data. Look what they did in Germany when they got a hint that their money, that their managers from companies that are state-owned are transferring money to some tax havens, you were talking about Liechtenstein, what did they do? They bribed an official there to give them some information, hovel. What would you do with us? What did one of the courts do today? It took a sample of Mr Thaler's treatment to dismiss the investigation because the English journalists obtained data in an illegal way or in an unscrupulous way. Wasn't it said that you got illegally, that was another matter concerning Murdoch's officers? That's what went wrong, but it was thrown away from us, which is why it was unfair. What, though, was entirely fair in Germany if they bribed an official? But they didn't ask themselves that question, they said how much state damage there was and if the CEO of Deutsche Poste, the German post office, can take his money to Liechtenstein. And what happened? He immediately gave up unless, of course, he was driven away, so it seemed better that he had given up. And we're wrapping this in cell phone paper because that's, I don't know, that's different. And until you let these things settle, we'll have the same thinking we have.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to begin, Madam Secretary of State, you are a very nice lady, and this time you have been in the role of Secretary of State, who has to keep an eye on state finances, very little too nice. In fact, when you say you only know about one manager, you did not want to say that the director of a large state firm, which is also the president of the supervisory board of the state bank, is a new credit bank, and that it has not been shown that any damage to this public property was made. I don't like that kind of naivety from the Treasury Department. This has been talked about for a long time in the birdhouse in that part, and it's always there where the smoke is also the fire and it turned out this time. But there are many silent associates of the same person. Ask some questions about the golf course on Ptuj, which directors there are other important directors from Maribor and so on, state companies, and you will be a little less naive or at least show that you are so naive. Look, this director is now the silent director of a state firm, speaking of quiet, he's no longer real, but he's quiet. And when we talk about these quiet things, perhaps your Minister Isilovic's silent advisor would ask how he is with these quiet societies. I am sure that he has so much history and knows that if I were to be honest with you, I would say one 50 cases, important, interesting names, interesting names, interesting names, which have been recorded in the newspaper, and the lady from Durs said that interesting names are among those who referred money to 29 tax havens. But you probably haven't heard about this in the finance ministry yet, because given that it's not important for our media to talk about it, about the couple of hundred million who went to tax havens, half of that is definitely stolen money, and probably a little less than half of that might be avoiding taxes, so there's only that part of the criminal. And you at the Ministry should be the first to investigate this, you have financial inspectors and tax inspectors. But I've heard that this director's already under a lot of pressure, threats, and I don't know what's going on. And when someone does a good job stop, as with the AUKN, I will not say anything about the AUKN, but two initiatives, three on the revision of the new credit bank, on the replacement of the supervisory board, because there is a conflict of interest terrifying, terrifying. But they have already been stopped, the director has already been stopped, because the audit is no longer necessary, because it would reveal how through the Serbian bank, what was there, even which privatisation was prepared through the Warsaw Stock Exchange with state money, of course with state money, now not state money, but capital has gone from state-owned enterprises. And you're not interested in that at the Ministry. I am sure that if Mrs Fattykov of Durs will be persistent and start those papers, and the names will have to be combed more, it will have to be replaced, of course, of course, it will have to be replaced, such Members will be found, and they, I don't know who, will say this, but they will have to be replaced, because this has nothing to do with Durs privacy, but I don't know what to do with it, it is yes, but these are immediately human rights violations. If someone stole a lot and someone said out loud who stole it, the country was working, human rights were immediately violated. And even as I said to Mr Klemenčič, in my opinion, if he is going this way, I support him, with the current actions, and with these steps, but they will replace him, and probably, as this professor said, he will be declared crazy and then a mad man needs to be replaced. And you have an important role to play, Madam Secretary of State and your Minister. Let them learn from their silent advisers who are silent associates or directors of state-owned enterprises and are silent shareholders of the companies with which state money flows. This, come and tell us about the pay phone, our silent counselor. [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much. First answer to Mr. Rezman, who told me I was cheating in the introduction. As regards what we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group twice failed in the past with regard to the amendment to the Company Act. I didn't cheat anything, and that's why I have nothing to apologize for. Mr Rezman read only one part of this bill, Article 8. I have said that we have not proposed the abolition of silent companies, but that the transparency of these companies and the transparency of these relations, as well as that of that bill which has not been passed, has not been proposed twice in this Assembly, is set out in Article 6, and we have proposed that it should be noted that every legal transaction and application should be entered into the register and accompanied by acts by which a person with an asset is entitled to participate in the company of someone else in his profits, and that every contractual relationship must be entered into the register and the acts with which they change or regulate the relationship between the members and between the members of society and society. And in your explanation for this article, Mr Rezman, you may have read that it says that this makes public all legal transactions with the same content or purpose as the silent society. Normally, however, in that section where the silent society was regulated, this chapter would normally be abolished. In short, we have proposed transparency of the same relations that are not now transparent. And I still don't know why this Parliament wasn't capable of two attempts last year and this spring of this novel of the Company Act. Or I'd say that I know more today, and I'm more clear because you're obviously protecting these relationships, relationships that are bad and that don't do any good. Today, in all the debate, respectable, no one has been able to say a single concrete case of a silent society which is good and which is in the interests of this country and which is in the interest of this economy, and which is in the interest of these finances, public finances and so on. Not a single case. However, we have heard one case that has been addressed in this National Assembly, in the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, which is weak and negative in all aspects. In all of them. And we don't know how many such cases there are. We don't know. Because of the legislation of these relations, this secrecy protects. And there's no one in this country who knows how many such relationships there are. If the novels proposed twice were adopted last December and this spring, then they would all be obliged to present them. They would be obliged to publish, register, these companies would be public or de-positions would be deleted from the register. In any case, we would know about this area that is now. Obviously, it is not in anyone's interest that citizens and citizens of this country at any time know how many of these negative relations are. So, in a substantive sense, there is absolutely nothing positive about this institute. The only case mentioned in one of these discussions was that Libyan investors would invest 30 million in the Cologne and would not want to be named, and this would be such a case of silent society, but unfortunately, what happened in Libya and there was no 30 million or the 500 million that the prime minister of construction had abused, even something else, in short nothing. This country is increasingly in debt, our largest state bank in ever-increasing financial chaos. In short, the management of state property is confusing, there is no responsibility, and at the same time Parliament is at the point that another minimum requirement, which should allow transparency of these relations in one of the minimum frameworks, would not know how to decide; but it would be a little more complementary to two articles, and it might be possible to appoint some other advisers, a professional committee, as in the case of constitutional changes, which would release this situation and this political spasm, in which this country is now, would have previously decided that two articles, which would not be practical if we were purely honest, meant much, would have been accepted. I said in the introductions earlier, here is some test, some indication that this space, this political space, is incapable of making any important decision that this country needs right now. Rulers along with those two bikes that you are now somehow in half or even more firmly inside sometimes than you were before, you have one irresponsibility not only to this country but also to yourself. At this point, it has also proved to be accurate, so that fine, very nice, that this law will seem to be experiencing a green light, but something essential because of the state of the spirit in this authority will not change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda. I'm also breaking the agenda. We're moving to 29. On the agenda, it's an on-the-job proposal for the adoption of the 40th Authentical Explanation. Member of the Economic Society Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u262	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues. Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services provides that, in the case of a dispute in the implementation of the concession contract between the concessionaire and the concessionaire, a regular court shall decide on the dispute. The provision is in itself sufficiently precise and clear, but there is in practice ambiguity if both parties agree on the competences of other dispute resolution institutions, in particular arbitration. Despite the clarity of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services and the prevailing positions of legal experts, that the provision is unequivocal and that it excludes arbitral settlement of disputes in the implementation of the concession contract, there are also interpretations in legal theory that allow for the resolution of disputes in the implementation of the concession contract through the private arbitration institute. Such theoretical interpretations shall also be used in individual cases by the permanent arbitration panel of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is justified by the fact that the provision of Article 40 itself does not preclude the possibility that arbitration may be resolved in addition to a regular court, since the legislator would only wish to delimit jurisdiction between courts and not between regular courts and arbitration. We are convinced that the aim of the legislator was not to prohibit the transfer of jurisdiction in disputes under the concession contract between concessionaires and concessionaires to other bodies, in particular arbitration. We estimate that the purpose of such prohibitions was to avoid a lower level of legal certainty. For pre-arbitration procedures offer a significantly lower level of legal certainty for persons under public law than provided for in the ordinary courts proceedings. In the arbitration procedure, the entire judicial authority shall be in the hands of one or more arbitrators who decide on very high amounts of public funds and their decision shall not be subject to any supervision. The feature of the arbitration procedure is that the members of the arbitration panel are called private, the procedure is one-step and there is no legal remedy against the arbitral decision, where the procedural and substantive legality of the decision may be established. It is already clear from the language interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Public Economic Services that the provision clearly defines the competence of regular courts in the case of a dispute in a concession contract, which is also attached in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We consider that it is only reasonable to adopt this in order to rule on the regular courts in disputes that are necessarily between public and private law and thus constitute additional judicial supervision of the public funds used. Regular courts shall clearly ensure the envisaged judicial procedure, the independence of the court, the possibility of the enforcement of legal remedies, i.e. a significantly higher level of legal certainty than any other decision-making bodies that decide on such disputes. We therefore want to eliminate the uncertainties and difficulties faced by the concessionaires in their dispute with regard to the implementation of the concession contract, because they are not provided with an appropriate level of legal certainty in the procedures before the arbitration of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We are confident that the adoption of an authentic interpretation will not affect anyone's right, but will only allow for the resolution of disputes through a regular court, as the year is part of a judicial authority that ensures an independent and impartial trial. We therefore call on all Members and Members to support the amendment proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service on the Committee on the Environment and Space and thus the proposed text of the authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, thus establishing the exclusive competence to resolve disputes between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in relation to the implementation of the concession contract, which consequently means greater control over the use of public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivac, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u264	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 31st session, the Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, which was sent to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission on local self-government and regional development of the State Council. In a supplementary explanation of the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the law, the representative of the applicants said that, despite the clarity of article 40 of the Economic Services Act, which states that if a dispute arises between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in the implementation of the concession contract, the dispute is settled on a regular basis, there is in practice ambiguity in the event that the concessionaire and the concessionaire agree on the competence of other dispute resolution institutions, in particular in the case of arbitration. Such arrangements were also made on the basis of instructions proposed by the ministries and the preparers of such documents. In practice, there are various complications when the arbitration panel at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia takes the decision of arbitration as final in a particular case. In some disputes, wrong decisions occur, but they are not subject to any supervision, as there is no appropriate remedy for this. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It notes that, according to the constitutional and judicial practice in force, the standard is sufficiently clearly defined if the language and telelogical interpretation of the standard can determine its content, taking into account the text of the provision, the legislative material and also the prevailing position of the theory. With regard to the competence to resolve disputes concerning the enforcement of the concession contract between the concessionaire and the concessionaire, it is possible, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, to establish clearly the content of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services by applying all the established methods of interpretation of the rules. Therefore, it considers that there is no need for an authentic explanation. The Committee was also informed by the written opinion of the Government, which considers that the interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services does not prohibit the arbitral resolution of disputes under the concession contract, which means that a different authentic interpretation constitutes an amendment to this Article and is thus inadmissible. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council. The Commission supports and stresses the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the law that economic services are carried out in the public interest, irrespective of the form of their provision. The Commission does not accept the Government's argument that arbitration is quicker to resolve disputes because it is a very difficult economic dispute that requires time and impartial decision that will not be detrimental to public interest. In the context of the debate on this issue, the members and members of the Committee supported the proposed proposal for an authentic interpretation of the law, as some municipalities that have signed concession contracts in which they have agreed to arbitrate disputes have serious difficulties with concessionaires. They pointed out that the feature of the arbitration procedure was that the members of the arbitration panel were appointed privately, that the procedure was one-stage and that there was no remedy against the arbitral decision, where they could test the procedural, substantive and factual correctness of the decision. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the need for a mandatory interpretation, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services should be adopted. The Committee then went on to consider the proposed text of the authentic interpretation of the law and also adopted an amendment that took into account the legislative and legal proposal. The Committee then adopted the following decision: "The Committee on Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services and a proposal for an authentic interpretation text, as proposed by the amendment."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u265	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Zarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The Group of Members of the Slovenian People's Party submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, which, in the opinion of the applicants, is to be understood literally as it is written and is of an enforceable nature. Therefore, where a dispute between the concessionaire and the concessionaire arises in the implementation of the concession contract, it is not possible to interpret this Article in a way that, in any event, irrespective of any other agreement of the parties on the competence of other authorities, institutions or organisations, the dispute shall be decided on a regular basis by the court. With regard to such an opinion, both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Environment and Space have prepared their position, which I summarize briefly below. Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services provides for a provision on the fate of jurisdiction when determining which court is actually competent in disputes under the concession contract. The text merely does not refer to the exclusive competence of the ordinary court, which would be the right expression if this provision were intended to exclude the possibility of arbitral resolution of such disputes. Nor does the text of the law prohibit, directly or indirectly, an arbitration agreement between the concessionaire and the concessionaire. The interpretation of that provision of the flight cannot be considered in isolation but should also take into account the provisions of the Arbitration Act, the Judicial Procedure Act, and the purpose of the conclusion of concessional relations. The two laws are based on the principle of dispositiveness in the decision of the parties to conclude an arbitration agreement by which the parties to certain disputes determine the jurisdiction of arbitration. All interpretation rules for the interpretation of legal standards shall give rise to an interpretation whereby Article 40 of the Act does not prohibit an arbitration clause in a concession contract or an arbitration agreement between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in a dispute under the concession contract. In view of the fact that this Article can only be understood as a provision on the delimitation of powers between the administrative and regular courts. This indicates that the purpose of the provision currently in Article 40 was to regulate the jurisdiction of the court, which court is competent to decide in disputes under the concession contract — administrative or regular courts? So, a court of general jurisdiction. At no stage in the adoption of the law was this provision intended to exclude the possibility of arbitration. In view of the above, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that Article 40 of the Act does not prohibit the arbitral resolution of the dispute under the concession contract, which means that a different authentic interpretation, which would provide exclusive jurisdiction in determining disputes under the concession contract, would constitute an amendment to this Article and would thus be inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Over the past period, we have been dealing with several proposals for authentic explanations, and in the Group of Non-Related Members of Parliament - we do not think that this is the best sign of what legislation we have. Whether to write down too many laws and then by authentic explanations, of course, the individual provisions should be interpreted, or whether the provisions with the explanations cannot be clearly laid down so as not to require an authentic explanation. Whether this is the case, we believe, in individual cases, for a valve to release political discord or in some cases, we consider, in the case of an authentic interpretation of the Takeover Act, even for the correction of certain errors. But it's all bad. In this case, in the case of this authentic interpretation, the proposal for an authentic explanation, it is a dispute as to who may decide or who decides in the dispute between the concessionaire and the concessionaire. Who, then, is the one who judges when it comes to judgment either in public or in private interest? So, what is the way of this judgment, whether it's arbitration or it's a trial before a regular court. We have experienced quite a few different explanations in this regard and to mention that it is in favour of the interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least as far as we have been able to see, the only position of the Senate of Permanent Arbitration at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which represents private interests and not by definition of public. Thus it seems to us that this is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the fact that it is also decided by the arbitration procedure, relatively lonely. The proposers think otherwise. The applicants are convinced that Article 40 is clear and that it is only before a regular court that ensures the correctness of the decision and legal certainty. However, they consider that this should be further written in an authentic explanation as different interpretations of this Article appear. What we have been able to read and the position of individual experts also serves to make the provision clear. However, it speaks of the fact that clear provisions do not require an authentic explanation and must be understood in the provision itself. The Legislative and Legal Service has also asked and answered all the necessary questions raised in such cases. She replied that the provision was clear that there was no need for an authentic explanation and that an authentic explanation was not admissible. And in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we consider that the finding of the Legal and Legislative Service that only regular courts decide this is correct and we also support it. A slightly different view, in fact identical to those proposed by the State Council. And between all these different interpretations there has also been an attempt to compromise on the parent's working body, which is that they also agree that only regular courts decide in these disputes between the concessionaires and the concessionaires, so it is good to write this one more time. We don't think that's necessary. If the provision is clear, as the Legislative and Legal Service says, if it is not necessary and there is no valid authentic explanation, then we cannot attract other positions. However, we would like to point out that for the future it is important to note that laws should be written clearly, definitively, even predictablely and comprehensibly, and that the need for some kind of legal atavim will be somewhat less authentic. So we will vote in the way she thought it was right, our Law-Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, which was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic, will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Applicants of an authentic or compulsory interpretation shall endeavour to establish a clear understanding of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, which provides that a regular court shall determine the dispute between the concessionaire and the concessionaire. That's how it's written. In practice, however, concessionaires and concessionaires agree on the competences of other institutions, most often on arbitration, which, according to the applicants, is a source of uncertainty which in practice causes difficulties in the conduct of public entities, in particular as regards the validity of the arbitration clause. And to be even more precise, this happens in some cases in the municipalities when they cannot agree with the concessionaires, so that there are major financial problems of the municipalities - in this case, the municipality of Laško, the municipality of Bled and I think that such cases should be resolved in Parliament, even with an authentic explanation. As a result of this ambiguity, environmental and financial damage may arise, mainly due to unnecessary costs of justification. Applicants point out the interpretations of certain theorists that the provision of Article 40 does not distinguish between courts and other institutions, but between regular and other courts. Thus, the arbitration referred to in Article 40 is not excluded. This opinion is also supported by the government, which in this way is also in obvious error, since it would not have been necessary or necessary to provide for Article 40. However, it can be derived from such an explanation that arbitration can be dealt with by anyone in any way. There is no need for arbitrators, a professional judge, which means that it does not necessarily have the breadth required by such proceedings and cannot detect the full complexity of the proceedings. For the purposes of the arbitration procedure, members of the arbitration panel shall be appointed in private. The procedure is one-stage and almost without legal protection, since there is no legal remedy against an arbitral decision where this decision could be tested from a materially legal point of view and from a factual point of view. The evidentiary process can and is generally less thorough and less comprehensive in the arbitration proceedings. Believe me, all I am saying is that I know the matter very well from the example of the congregation of Laško. Arbitration between persons of public and private law is unnecessary, as regular courts have been successful in implementing mediation programmes and deciding in a way that is done by judges in criminal proceedings which themselves judge, regular courts provide for a clearly foreseen trial procedure, the independence of judges and a system of remedies that prevents the issuing of legal misjudgments. In the arbitration procedure, arbitrators are appointed by the parties and their decisions are final and often approximate and incomplete. Since the number of different legal interpretations appears to be very large, this increases the level of incomprehensibility recorded in the legal correct application of the law. It is therefore appropriate to adopt a mandatory interpretation of this Article and, as has already been said, with the support of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So in this case, once again, one of the Slovenian specialities, when in fact all of us is clearly clear, but five times five should be 25, but in this clear dictatorship we also find one that says, no, five times five is not 25, but 26 is left with us. And others say, no, five times five isn't twenty-five, but twenty-four is one down, and here's the problem. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal put forward by the proposer to clearly record that, although it is clear to all of us, once again, that 5 times 5 is only 25 and that this proposal for an authentic interpretation of the Law on Economic Public Services will not be taught to see what this means at all. The fact is that this is happening where concession contracts are. We have known concession contracts in Slovenia for 18 years and, of course, a certain practice is being created here, and legislation must be adapted accordingly. Of course, just like everywhere else, there are innovators here who are either running out or walking too much. and these economic public services have recently gained in force, gained weight and at these economic services, for example, economic public service in the municipal field is extremely important. We know that waste management, with water, with cleaning facilities, with waste water is becoming increasingly important and more money is turning here and there is also a public-private partnership in this area. This means that financial flows - they are public and private - can also flow from one sphere to another, but never have they happened to be from private to public, but always vice versa, because innovation is immeasurable. This is why this area needs to be defined, and also because there is a great deal of money flowing, there have been various interpretations, even though in our opinion the Slovenian Democratic Party believes that the dictatorship of this law is clear. However, if different interpretations are already coming, then let us once again write that it will undoubtedly be clear and, of course, we support this. As far as arbitration is concerned, I'd like to mention the following. Rather, arbitration as such is not prohibited anywhere; only arbitration occurs when, in this case, the concessionaire and the concessionaire cannot agree on what the solution is. And what do you do? In any case, they have some kind of arbitration when the representatives of each other meet and if they find a solution, then there is no dispute at all. But that arbitration, whatever it is and wherever it may have the ultimate executive power, cannot be that it would be before a court of law stronger than a court of law. Because such arbitration, in which both parties would not be pleased to win, the other would lose and then one would not be satisfied, and this is not arbitration. This cannot be the final objective, but the final objective must then be the court. And that's why, of course, we support that. However, we believe that arbitration is not prohibited anywhere, but it cannot have the strength it has if the case is brought before a court. There is power, enforcement power and we rely on the independence of the judiciary, certainly more than if, I don't know, someone arranges and appoints some persons who then decide for the benefit of one or the other, and in such a case may also spill public funds into private. We therefore support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u274	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services. As already mentioned in the supplementary explanation, Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services provides that in the case of a dispute between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in respect of the implementation of the concession contract, the court shall decide on a regular basis. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that such a dictatorship is quite clear and specific, so in practice there should be no different interpretations of this provision. Unfortunately, this is not the case because there is ambiguity in cases where the concessionaires and concessionaires agree on the competence of other dispute resolution institutions, in particular arbitration. In such cases it is not clear whether an arbitration clause is in force or not. Due to disputes in the implementation of the economic public services established by the concession contract, environmental and financial damage may arise. The case referred to above was one of the Slovenian municipalities which entered into a concession contract with the concessionaire, there was a dispute, and in the contract the arbitration was prescribed or agreed as the one that would resolve the dispute. The dispute was decided by arbitration at the Chamber of Commerce, which took the concessionaire's side and the municipality was unable to enforce any legal remedy against its decision. Despite financial damage, the congregation could not have done anything to ensure that the dispute was settled by a regular court, so the proceedings were closed and it was not possible to involve the court. Similar cases are even more rapid in Slovenia, so it is imperative to adopt the proposed authentic interpretation which will allow for the resolution of disputes before regular courts which provide a higher level of legal certainty than any other body that decides on disputes concerning the implementation of concession contracts. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that there is a significantly lower level of legal certainty in the pre-trial proceedings of persons of public law, as the proceedings against an arbitral decision, as I have already mentioned, cannot be invoked any legal remedy. The judiciary is placed in the hands of one or more private-appointed arbitrators who decide on high amounts of public funds, while their decisions are not subject to any supervision. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the text of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services is of a totally forced nature, which means that there should be no doubt as to the competence to resolve such disputes, which is also agreed by the Legislative and Legal Service. On the contrary, the Government argues in its opinion that the provision of Article 40 of the Law does not constitute the exclusive jurisdiction of the ordinary court and does not prohibit the resolution of concession disputes with arbitration. Such a diametrically contradictory position in the Slovenian People's Party's Group is seen only as an additional reason for the need to adopt an authentic interpretation, since it will only determine the exclusive jurisdiction to resolve disputes between the concessionaire and the concessionaire regarding the implementation of the concession contract. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, as well as an amendment drawn up on the working body, which sets out even more clearly the purpose of the authentic interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister! Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services states that if a dispute arises in the implementation of the concession contract between the concessionaire and the concessionaire, the dispute shall be settled by a regular court. In practice, however, there is ambiguity in the event that the concessionaire and the concessionaire agree on the competence of other dispute resolution institutions, in particular arbitration. Such events have also taken place on the basis of instructions proposed by the ministries and the preparers of such documents. In practice, there are various complications when the arbitration panel at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia takes the decision of arbitration as final in a particular case. In some disputes, wrong decisions occur, but they are not subject to any supervision, as there is no appropriate remedy for this. The degree of legal certainty of the concessionaire is therefore significantly lower. Therefore, the applicants propose that the proposed authentic interpretation of the law be adopted and that it be clearly determined that, in the event of a dispute between the concessionaire and the concessionaire, it shall be decided by the ordinary court. The fact that the opinions of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service on the need for an authentic interpretation contradict each other all the more proves that an authentic explanation is necessary. They also contradict the views and interpretations of various legal theorists. That is why, according to our assessment, doubts about the proper understanding of that article must be resolved. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we will also support the proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation, which states that Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services is to be understood in such a way that the resolution of disputes between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in relation to the implementation of the concession contract falls exclusively within the jurisdiction of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister of Environment and Space, fellow Members, fellow Members! The Group of Members proposes the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services. They argue that the article must be understood literally as it is written and is of an enforceable nature. Therefore, in the event of a dispute between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in the implementation of the concession contract, this Article cannot be interpreted differently than that in any event, irrespective of any other arrangement with the party within the competence of the other authorities, it is possible to rule on the dispute on a regular basis. This is the way the applicants want to address the specific problems of some local communities that have concluded concession contracts in which concessionaires have agreed to arbitrarily resolve these disputes. This is a legal issue on which legal theorists do not have a uniform position. Finally, this is well illustrated by the opinions of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service find that the authentic interpretation is not admissible or necessary, but for diametrically contrary reasons. The Government considers that both the language and the systematic and historical interpretation support the interpretation that Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services does not prohibit the arbitral resolution of disputes under the concession contract. And at the end of its extensive opinion, it states that the proposed authentic interpretation of the legal provision of Article 40 gives a content which it did not have at the time of the entry into force of the law. This is not an authentic explanation, therefore, but an unacceptable amendment to the law by the Institute of Authentic Interpretation. On the contrary, the legislative and legal service, like the proponents, argues that, in legal theory, the dominant position is that the provision of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services excludes the arbitral settlement of disputes between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in respect of the implementation of the concession contract. However, in its opinion, contrary to the applicants, it bases the view that, by taking into account the text, the provisions of the legislative material and also the dominant position of the theory of competence to resolve disputes relating to the implementation of the concession contract and the application of all the established methods of interpretation of the rules, it is doubtless possible to establish the content of Article 40 of the Economic Services Act. Therefore, there is no need for an authentic interpretation in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Government therefore considers that the provision of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services does not prohibit the arbitral resolution of disputes under the concession contract and, on the contrary, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the provision excludes arbitral settlement of disputes. However, it is concluded from both opinions that the authentic interpretation is not admissible or not necessary. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we regret that in the National Assembly, in this case, we could say a theoretical legal issue with concrete consequences could not offer a competent solution. Taking into account the view that the authentic interpretation is not admissible or necessary means continuing the current status quo with all the negative consequences in everyday legal practice. Therefore, the Committee on the Environment and Space, as a parent working body, has obviously decided to overcome the current situation and has unanimously adopted a slightly corrected text of the authentic interpretation, despite the opinion of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service. Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services states that the resolution of disputes between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in respect of the implementation of the concession contract falls exclusively within the jurisdiction of the court. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for an authentic interpretation or a proposal by the Committee on Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u279	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation, the text of an authentic interpretation and the amendment of the Committee on Environment and Space. Mr Zanoškar, Anderlich, Mrs Pecan has the floor. Mr Pukšič or Weber should be prepared. He's quitting. Let's move on. Mr. Puksich, Weber, Mr. Grill. It doesn't look good. Mr. Urh, he's not here. Mrs. Nigga. The culprit. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. Perhaps a few more reflections have been given birth in this debate that has taken place. It is true that there are concerns on the legislative side about this authentic interpretation, but sometimes it is also necessary to take into account the practice and actual experience in the implementation of certain legislative receptions and in the event of arbitration, that is what you all have warned about, it is a relationship between public and private. A clear conflict has been demonstrated when the Chamber of Commerce is an exclusive arbitrator in some cases, and in this case there may also be some kind of conflict of interest, as the private partner, who is usually a concessionaire, is in conflict with a public sector as a concessionaire and the concessionaire may also be a member of the Chamber of Commerce and can therefore be a dispute or a member of the Chamber of Commerce, which places an arbitration in some sense. That is why I support this authentic explanation, because in some ways it eliminates this anomaly and in some ways it is also likely that the conflict of interest and resolves the conflict of interest in cases where private concessionaires are also in conflict with the public and in such cases may affect arbitrators, which are set up by some institutions which are independent in principle, but may be indirectly members, concessionaires may be members of those economic or other chambers. That is why I think that, despite the fact that the legal opinions of both legislative and government services have been negative, I think that in this case, pure practice in life has shown that this possibility permitted by law is in some way to the detriment of public interest and that we have been called, but in such cases we have a position, it is right that we all support this authentic explanation, which resolves any further dispute that may arise in such situations. By supporting this authentic explanation on my part and also on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, Potočnik. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u282	Your Honor, thank you very much. This conflict is longer than I am a minister than I can see. I also see that different lawyers explain the same thing differently. All I can say is that I'm happy that you come to the National Assembly with such problems and you can solve them. I think the work of me as minister is much easier if things are set and clearly stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u283	Thank you. And also, Mr. Bogovich, as your proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the parliamentary groups have expressed their support for this explanation. Once again, the Legislative and Legal Service felt that it was not necessary to make the provision sufficiently clear, it considered that it was admissible because it did not change the law and was, as it was written in their opinion, for reasons of clarity, proposed this amendment, which was also adopted by the Committee on the Environment and Space and I also support it on behalf of the applicants. But I'm glad the Minister did what you just said in the end. The Real Law on Public Economic Services is very complex, concessionary, concessional relations all the more, and practice in Slovenia has shown that, indeed, from that time of pioneering, the award of concessions to date has resulted in quite a number of disputes that need to be overcome and must also be settled in Parliament. Just so little for a joke a little bit, you yourself said the dispute was longer, but I am afraid that in writing this opinion on behalf of the Ministry, the Government, those who have already participated in the formation of any disputed article may not be able to from their own skin and persist in the same way as they were then. However, I am pleased that today, as I have seen, this interpretation of this article has been adopted and I am pleased.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u285	Thank you. All the advertised debaters that you wanted to get your word on. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet passed, I wonder whether anyone else would like to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The proposal to adopt the text of the authentic interpretation or amendment will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the meeting’s time frame, which will be at 18.50. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which will be suspended by the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 1850.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u286	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of each part of the building and the determination of the corresponding land to the building after a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 45 in favour, none in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We move on to the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, for the period 1994-2011, following a reduced procedure. Since, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law, and I would like to inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 in favour, none against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code following the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 12 July 2011. We are moving on to Article 18 and to the amendment of SD, LDS and Res to Article 18. Article 18 was also amended by the SD Group of Members and I would like to point out that if the amendment under point 1 is adopted, this is SD, LDS and Really, the amendment becomes number two irrelevant. I am putting to the vote the amendments SD, LDS and Really Article 18. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, for 48, for 25. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and thus the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, for 31, for 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendments to Article 18 were tabled in the second reading of the bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they propose an amendment to the adopted Article 18 in the third reading? No, no, no. Then I inform you that no third-reading amendments have been tabled. Nor did the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government warn me that due to the amendment adopted in the second reading, the law would be inconsistent and therefore we are moving on to a decision on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please let anyone who wishes to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members sign up. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that. Even though we may feel that the coalition is not working, how does it work when it comes to some interests that are in every way and must be defended at all costs. This has also been shown now and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that, although our proposal is still so good, it does not receive the necessary majority support and, of course, such content is destined to be worthless or not worth trying to get the opposite answers, which unfortunately indicate that, despite the fact that our proposal is good, it is not accepted. For this reason, in the SDS Group, we estimate that we will not support the content of the proposed law, although we would expect that, by way of an introductory explanation, where, in fact, the legal content summarizes certain directives, which should also be adopted in national parliaments, this is dictated. Above all, it is disturbing that the directive, which also requires a change in the content of one of the articles, in fact gives us the opportunity to give priority to our own knowledge and thus use our experts, prefers to find content where we have to conclude and seek such experts outside the Republic of Slovenia. It is also a fact that in the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the University of Ljubljana, we have the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport, which could educate such personnel and instead of using foreign experts, we could give our experts to strangers. This is the case with us and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will vote against the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? He wants more of you. I'm giving him time to report. Who wants to explain the voice? Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u289	Your Honor! The proposal to amend the Maritime Code has a number of good solutions, but Article 7 contains a solution that is weak and which will cause immediate irreparable consequences. In fact, paragraph 7 removes the Minister's obligation to agree to change the prices of municipal bonds. Prices or pressure to raise prices in municipalities were created not by the desire to fill the municipal budget, but by the decision of the Ministry of the Environment and Space to increase water refunds nine times or twice, and not for all attachments. Commercial attachments, marina and Luka Koper were taken. They've only increased the water reimbursements to utility attachments. As a result, the municipalities now want to raise prices and prices for several times of municipal ties, and if Article 7 is adopted and the Code is adopted, Article 7 will also be adopted, and the Minister's agreement to increase prices by municipalities for municipal bonds will be lifted. Local fishermen use utility attachments, these are small local boats. Because of this, despite the fact that the Maritime Code has many good solutions, because if the Maritime Code is adopted immediately there will be a very large increase in the prices of municipal ties and there will be irreparable damage for our people on the coast using boats for their own survival, I am forced to oppose the amendment of the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The maritime code is certainly important and needs to be amended by European legislation or the European Directive. But the fact is that there has been an amendment to Article 56 of the Maritime Code in this haste, and in Article 7 of the novel, in fact, the consent of the Ministry of Transport to the formation of prices of municipal ties is lifted. Because that's what we just heard, I'm going to motivate my voice now, and I'm going to distinguish it a little bit from the argument just heard. It was an opportunity to correct this on the committee responsible, and those who were there did not take advantage of this opportunity. There was no real amendment, we came up with coordinated amendments that do not solve it, and unfortunately we are now faced with the fact. But since we know, and here I can agree with the predecessor, we know that the effect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u292	Mr. Yuri, you're explaining your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u293	Of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u294	Well, not him. Please give it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u295	As we know that the impact, the direct effect of this new Maritime Code, will actually damage the users of these links, namely the fishermen to whom we provide European funds on the other hand, and on our part we burden them with the ability to fly prices into the sky because they will be left to the local authorities and the Ministry of the Environment, let us not forget that everything comes from the prices created by the Ministry of the Environment. Of course, I can't support such a code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has also applied. Anybody else want to discuss this? Wait a minute, I see there's still interest. I'm giving time to apply for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Please, who wants to explain their voice to you? Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u297	I must say why I will vote in favour of this code as if the amendment to Article 7 had now been tabled to re-enter the consent of the Minister of Transport in determining the prices of municipal services in municipal ports, in fact, I would vote against this amendment. Why? Due to the fact that utilities are an optional economic service, it is said that there is no reason to confirm these prices from the Ljubljana headquarters. The second thing is - in the hands of scissors and canvas, the municipal council of the individual municipality, which sets the prices of municipal ties. If the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper is not capable of caring for the interests of its citizens, as the municipal councils of the congregations of Piran and Izola have done, then the citizens of the Municipality of Koper should attribute to themselves that they cannot choose such a congregation council to care for their interests. That's the first one. Secondly, the origin of this high increase in prices of municipal connections in Cyprus and the purpose that we have stopped in the municipal council in Isola in order to increase this increase are extremely high increases in refunds for the use of water surfaces in municipal ports. And here the party of the Social Democrats has made sure that the source of the promotion has stopped and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will adapt the decision to the actual needs and situation in the municipalities of Koper, Izola and Piran. By kindly asking those who do not do what is right to prevent things from being born, then of course you do not have to reject the whole law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I would kindly ask, if possible, that you remain in the explanation as much as possible in explaining your own position why vote in favour. Perhaps they are not to blame in other congregations for your support or opposition. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. I will adopt or support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code. It's important solutions, so I think it's really a bit irresponsible if we talk about not supporting this law because it's not supposed to involve domestic experts in accident research, it's actually possible for them. This law only allows the Government to conclude an agreement with other Member States of the European Union. With regard to municipal ties, we must be aware that if this code is not adopted today, it will remain in force today, but it does not provide an adequate legal basis for the Minister of Transport in order to prevent the price rise of municipal ties. In the present code, there are no criteria on which the Minister of Transport could rely and say, "No, I do not allow price increases because you and these criteria in the law are not met." By expecting the Minister of Transport to arbitrarily decide on this at his own discretion not to allow a price rise, the expectation is without an account and I am sure that we will cause only one additional complication, but not a further problem, not a solution. The solution is the adoption of this code, and that is why I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code for a simple reason, because the important content to which the applicant first points out in the introductory explanation that the law must be adopted due to certain content arising from the European Directive, and then, of course, add, as some of the hidden elements, hidden content having some other broader implications. And that is why I do not always agree with some changes when we accept them in a fast, short-term procedure. It happens to us that this is precisely why we accept certain content that is not well thought out because time is simply running out. This is also reflected in the content of this amendment. When the option is to add a port fee and interest associations, qualify for, I don't know what, the treatment of the strike and so on. These are, therefore, the contents that could be dealt with on a regular basis, not by a reduced procedure. And it is precisely because of such content that the applicants are trying to try, forgive the expression, to frame some of the content that has nothing to do with being dealt with quickly. In this way, we have also adopted agencies in this Parliament, thus allowing for an irrational use of state money. I will therefore vote against the proposed amendments to the Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 35. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to the Rail Safety Act. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 12 July 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 1. One amendment was tabled by SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members. And the second amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. If the amendment of SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members is adopted, the amendment under number 2 will be irrelevant. In addition, the amendment to Article 3 under Article 2 and the amendment under Article 1 to 4 will become irrelevant. I shall put to the debate Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1. No one wants to discuss it. I am putting to the vote the amendments of SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members to Article 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 34. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment of SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members to Article 1 has been adopted. It has thus become an immaterial amendment under Article 2 to Article 1 as well as an amendment under Article 2 to Article 3 and an amendment under Article 1 to 4. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 which has been tabled by the SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members shall become irrelevant. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 of whom were in favour, 41 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members to this Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 44 of whom were in favour, 30 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 30.]] The amendment of SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members to Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 3 and the decision on the amendment to Article 1 under point 1 tabled by the SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. We're voting. There were 76 Members and Members present, 45 in favour, 29 in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4, namely the SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present; 47 were in favour, 29 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment of SD, LDS, Res and Non-Related Members to Article 4 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 5 and the amendment of SD, LDS, Real and unrelated Members to Article 5. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, 46 of them in favour, 28 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment of SD, LDS, Really and unrelated Members to Article 5 has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Mr. Tanko, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u303	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm predicting an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u304	What time? If we continue on Friday, it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u305	We'll have this ready by morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u306	There are no votes tomorrow. We will vote Friday after the other items of the agenda, and Mr Tanko would ask you if you could table amendments by Friday morning to distribute them to all Members and Members. So I interrupt this item on the agenda, and we will continue on Friday, which is July 15th this year. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, the reduced procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. All 77 were in, no one was in. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act after a reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the proposal for a Law on corporate income tax in the context of a reduced procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We vote on the bill. There are 77 Members and Members present. All 77 were in, no one was in. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a bill on the balance sheet total of banks under the regular procedure Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr. Visjak, on behalf of the delegation? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u307	Your Honor! We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because it is yet another lack of Government's thinking on how to deal with bank credit inaction or to eliminate the so-called credit crunch. Banks face many problems in Slovenia and need thorough rehabilitation, difficult to restore their resources. Their balance sheets are burdened with the impossible burdens of the entire economy, such as construction and top-down management. There is no fresh capital, the country as the largest owner of the hesitation with this rehabilitation. Invent some tax on a balance sheet total of banks to encourage banks to lend good projects is pointless. Because banks live on good projects and finance them because of their economic interest. Well, there can't be a penalty for tax in theory, either. In this case, the tax is a penalty. Penalty for those who don't finance the economy with money. So you're not going to save anything with this. This tax will not be saved and will not release the bank's credit activity, but those banks that will not hide this tax base will pay the tax and will hang it up to the commissioners, that is, the economy and the people we need from these banks. Well, it's totally unthinkable. It won't work in practice. This is contrary to the position of the Bank of Slovenia. So, Banka Slovenije does not support these solutions. Of course, these solutions are not supported by the Association of Banks and there is another shot at the emptyness of these governments in dealing with the financial and economic crisis, such as many others, the guarantee scheme and so on. Therefore, please address the problems in an effective way and not rape parliament, us and the bank with these unthinkable measures. We will therefore vote against and we do not want such laws to create the impression that a problem is being solved in Slovenia because it is not being solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u308	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. Once again, I've been informed by the Legal Service and the Government that the law is not inconsistent. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 37. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 32/1993, amendments Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 30/1998-ZLPPO, 127/2006-ZJZP, 38/2010 ZUKN. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Economic Public Services, an official list as previously stated, is to be adopted. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 70 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against three.]] The proposed decision is adopted. I take it we still have to move on to the definition of the text of an authentic explanation. The text will be in the proposal formulated by the Committee, including the amendment of the Committee on Environment and Space, which fully replaces the proposed text of the interpretation. We therefore vote on the text as presented by the Committee on Environment and Space. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 in favour, none against. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that an authentic interpretation as proposed has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
