ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraphs of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Pukšič, Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli and Joško Godec. At the meeting, I invited government representatives to all points. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday, 31. 8. 2011, with reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say, on the contrary, the proposal for a decision on the request of the State assembly, that the Constitutional Court may decide whether or not to delay the application of a civil law, or because of its withdrawal from the referendum, it would be possible to establish an anti-constitutional effect. On 22 June 2011, Aleš Primc informed me of an initiative by voters to apply for a legislative referendum on the Family Code, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 16 June 2011. Voters supported the initiative with 32 thousand 168 votes. As President of the National Assembly, on Thursday, 1 September 2011, I set a deadline for collecting signatures in support of the request for a legislative referendum on the Family Code. The last day, the 35th day for signature collection, is Wednesday, October 5, 2011. With regard to this request, the 44 Members and Members of Parliament, signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative of the Council, submitted a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to determine whether the application of the Family Code or its rejection at the referendum would have had negative consequences. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Very nice greeting, Mr President, Mr Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of Parliament adopted the Family Code on 16 January this year at a meeting after more than a year and a half of the duration of consideration, on which the Civil Initiative for the Family and the Rights of the Children 22 was adopted. 6. 2011 tabled an initiative to call for a follow-up legislative referendum. On the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, applicants from SD, Res, DeSUS, LDS and unrelated Members shall be asked to decide whether the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia should, by deferring the application and possibly rejecting the law at the referendum, have the effect of unconstitutional consequences. The adopted Family Code, the content of which is based on modern professional starting points, represents a real reform of family law. Its basic guide is to improve the legal and factual situation of children in our country, regardless of the form of the family they live in. This Code governs the marriage, the non-marital community, the partner and non-participating community, the parent-child relations, the form of State aid in relation to the problems of partner and family life and the survival, adoption, foster care and guardianship. However, for the initiators of the referendum, of the 309 articles contained in the Family Code, the most controversial broad inclusive definition of a family composed of traditional families made up of spouses and children is in no way devalued or endangered, but in the spirit of social change takes into account the process of pluralisation of family forms, which includes and treats single parents, reorganised and same-sex families equally. In addition to the ideologically neutral definition of a family that does not favor traditional families, the initiators of the referendum in the Family Code are most disturbed by the new legal arrangements of same-sex partnerships. Opponents of the Family Code consider that the only thing acceptable is the regulation or correction of certain rights and obligations of same-sex partners in a special law. Allow me to give further arguments as to why we believe that a constitutional assessment of the Family Code referendum should be carried out. If the Family Code is not implemented, the National Assembly will not comply with the obligations imposed by the 2009 Constitutional Court Decision establishing the unconstitutionality of the provision of Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community. We are of the opinion that the Constitutional Court would have found a situation similar to that of ZRIPS in other regulations if there had been an assessment of compliance with Article 14 of the Constitution in the following laws: the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act and could have been listed. These laws set out the rights that we - normal - seem to be perceptive in themselves, but do not belong to the same-sex partners. For example, it is the right to be absent from work due to the illness of the partner, the right to be compensated for income for the care of the family member, the right to a widow's pension, the right to be exempt from the obligation to pay, the right to visit the convicted partner in prison, the right to enter into a lease with the surviving spouse of the tenant, the right to compensation for mental pain. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'd like you to calm them down for a moment. Thank you. According to the applicant's position, Protocol No. 12 The European Convention on Human Rights has been further prohibited from discrimination in the Slovenian constitutional system, since the prohibition of unequal treatment not only covers the spectrum of human rights but also legal rights. Thus, according to the applicant's assessment, the whole range of legal situations is more obvious at present, while the others are not yet disclosed, which we can conclude that even if someone claims that they may not be constitutionally protected by the provision of Article 14, paragraph 1, they are constitutionally protected by the provision of Article 1 of Protocol No. 12. Let me mention only the right to be paid absence from work due to the death of a partner under the Labour Relations Act. It should also be noted that the Constitutional Court has already assessed the requirement to assess the constitutionality of ZRIPS and the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on Succession, which was passed by the District Court in Cyprus, and which confirms the potential unconstitutionality in the relationship between the non-legislative community and same-sex couples who do not decide to register but live in the actual community. In the Family Code, which defines the non-participating community as a long-lasting community of two or two men who have not entered into a partnership, we abolish this unconstitutional regime. Furthermore, in the Constitutional Court’s case for the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 92 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, this judgment was already passed in 2007 in view of the fact that the five-year period after the age of five years for the application for paternity was abolished. The regulation of paternity procedures in the Family Code follows fully the decision of the Constitutional Court and lays down the subjective period within which the child may file an action for paternity. On the initiative of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana last year, however, we can read that the Constitutional Court was also given a five-year period to challenge paternity, in conjunction with Article 98 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The family code also regulates that for a new one. The National Assembly of the Family Code has also revised a provision allowing for the filing of an action for paternity following the death of an alleged father. In short, the Family Code thus, according to the proposalr's assessment, regulates the procedural deadlines in a new way in order to ensure that the child's interest in the proceedings is informed of his or her existence, weightier and weighed over the interest in legal certainty and, if necessary, to safeguard the sustainability of the existing family legal relations, followed by Article 35 of the Constitution. As a second important package, we can mention that only the most pressing problems of family law arising from the practice of courts, centres for social work have been solved with the novelties of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations so far; the knowledge of theory also shows that there are major legal gaps, imperfections, shortcomings, as well as non-compliance with the most recent regulations, international ones such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child. Let me only point out the definition of the principle of the greatest benefit of the child in all activities relating to the child, the prohibition of physical and other degrading behaviour, the consistent exercise of the child's right to express his or her opinion on matters relating to him or her, the redefining of the prior consultation and the introduction of family mediation. In addition to the legal matrimonial property regime, the family code also allows spouses to enter into a contractual property regime with the possibility of entering into matrimonial contracts. Such arrangements constitute one fundamental change in the manner in which the asset regime is applied. It is essential to transfer to the property regime between spouses the possibility of spouses to choose and determine the content of their own property regime. In view of the current constitutional regime whereby ownership as one of the fundamental phenomena of property rights has its old place in the legal system, the National Assembly considers that the specific nature of the marital relationship no longer excuses the existence of a compulsory legal property regime. I would also like to point out that the provisions of a number of laws exclude registered same-sex partners or take registered same-sex partners into account when listing immediate family members and exclude unregistered same-sex partners. Such omission of certain groups may also, in certain cases, constitute conduct in the interest of public interest, which can be seen mainly in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Last but not least: we see a strong argument by the candidates of the constitutional judgment in equating the situation of children living in same-sex communities. It is unacceptable for us to exercise the rights of children specifically protected by Article 56 of the Constitution by way of distinction on the basis of personal circumstances. In many cases, the current legal regime interferes with the actual situation of a child living in same-sex communities. They are reflected in the consequences and, if you want, discrimination in the enjoyment of rights arising from the unregulated status of same-sex families or, as our colleague Sayovic described figuratively, "God loves all children equally". In the request for the constitutional assessment you have, respected colleagues and colleagues today, we claim that, in terms of legal certainty and predictability, as defined in our Constitution in Article 2, the only possible way to eliminate discrimination against same-sex couples is by system regulation in one regulation, in the manner provided for in the Family Code. This is to compare the legal consequences of same - sex couples with the legal consequences of marriage or the extramarital community — legal consequences and nothing else. The legislative reform of a number of regulations in previously presented areas, where we claim that there is already an anti-constitutional regime in terms of discrimination based on sexual orientation, would take too long. As a legislative body in the system of constitutional democracy, we need to be constantly careful that legal relations are regulated in accordance with the Constitution, and therefore the years-long correction of the unconstitutionality of the whole type of regulation is not a good solution. The proposed comprehensive solution in the Family Code, with the overall alignment of the two communities, seeks to ensure that in the future the possibility of undue distinction or discrimination in the exercise of any human rights or legal rights will be denied. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed referendum on the Family Code concerns the question of the right to freedom of choice or the creation of family life, and this choice in no way endangers the rights of others. The motion for the Constitutional Court to judge the constitutional consequences of rejecting the Family Code is that the purpose of the referendum initiative, which wishes only to restrict rights, does not offer the protection of the rights of others at the same time, is unacceptable. We believe that the comprehensive content and legal arrangements covered by the Family Code are quality, advanced, and we have been guided by a constitutional stipulation that children should enjoy special protection and care in the drafting of this law. Colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of all the arguments put forward, I call on you to support our proposal to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement or rejection of the Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ljub Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, at its 32nd emergency meeting, considered the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by deferring the application of the Family Code or by rejecting it at the referendum, the consequences of the State Assembly's treatment and adoption could have arisen from a group of Members and Members signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič. The Committee was provided with the following material: a proposal for a decision and an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Representatives and representatives of proponents, representatives of the Government, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Ivan Svetlik and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The representative of the candidates, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, said that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, they proposed that the National Assembly should decide whether the Constitutional Court would, by deferring the application and possibly rejecting the Family Code at the referendum, have the potential to have anti-constitutional consequences. The Family Code repeals the unconstitutional provisions of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community and the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on Succession, which is under review at the Constitutional Court, and follows the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was made in the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of Article 92 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, by establishing the subjective period within which the child may lodge an action for the determination of paternity. In addition to this, the Family Code brings a number of other improvements such as: the comprehensive regulation of the family legal substance and the contractual property regime, and also redrafts a provision allowing for the lodging of an action for the determination of paternity after the death of the alleged father. It also drew attention to the ratification of Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which further prohibits discrimination in the Slovenian constitutional system and provides for a number of laws that exclude registered same-sex partners or registered same-sex partners, take into account the inclusion of immediate family members and exclude unregistered same-sex partners. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Svetlik, agreed with the representative of the applicants and explained that the Family Code makes it possible to balance the legal situation for all inhabitants of Slovenia. He felt that freedom of speech and legal equality were at odds in the debate on the Code and that the Constitutional Court would have to weigh between these two freedoms. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion and said that the proposal for a decision containing a request to the Constitutional Court was in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. However, the explanation of the draft decision, which will become an integral part of the request if adopted, shall contain all the mandatory elements set out in Part 11 of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court. There was a debate in which some members of the Committee explained that the requirement for a constitutional review was legal, but the people had the right to express their will in the referendum. They considered that the arguments set out in the draft decision were unconvincing that the majority should not diminish the rights of children, that the definition of family in the Family Code was inappropriate, that the right to adopt children should be better defined, that non-constitutionality should be addressed in the succession of same-sex registered partners and that there was no need to systematically regulate possible shortcomings. The Head of the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights, Aleš Prince, said that the civil initiative in its position would reject the poor arguments set out in the constitutional review request to be sent to the Constitutional Court and warned that the authorities should respect and protect paternity and motherhood, and that their importance, which the Constitution imposes on it. On the contrary, other debaters considered that the request was legitimate and that it would be decided at the home working body and also at the plenary session of the National Assembly, and that the Constitutional Court would also decide on its basis. The Constitutional Court will weigh various constitutional rights and should be allowed to determine whether one right can restrict another. They also explained that the Family Code makes decisions about the legal regime and not about values, and it is important how a family understands it. The definition of the family is also appropriate, as it was also adopted by the United Nations Declaration in the form set out in the Family Code. The representative of the Government explained that the Family Code follows consistently the constitutional provision of Article 14 of the Constitution and those conventions signed by Slovenia. Its non-refoulement would maintain discriminatory practices, violate Article 14 of the Constitution and allow for the non-implementation of certain provisions in other laws. On the basis of Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the proposal for a decision and adopted it by eight votes to five with five votes in favour. No amendments were adopted to the proposal for a decision on the working body. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disability of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a decision be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u6	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we have always held that on 16 June the Family Code contains a series of good solutions and novelties, but in some parts it is still unacceptable, as it substantially changes the understanding of family or marriage. The adoption of the Family Code in such a form as it has been adopted has been opposed by our parliamentary group from the very beginning.We cannot particularly agree with the work of the proposal of the Family Code, which defines various forms of family communities. In reshaping the existing Family Code, we see only the search for political consensus. We also cannot agree with the increase in the powers of the existing centres for social work, which are already doing very badly. However, with any additional powers, their poor and unprofessional decisions would be further strengthened in major such and other tragedies. The controversy about the legality of the adopted law was, in our opinion, mainly due to the stubbornness of the proponents of the Code, who supported the new definition of the family persistently and stubbornly until the adoption, which was also the greatest thorn of the civil initiative, which began by collecting signatures for the referendum. On the basis of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the National Assembly has requested that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether, by suspending the application and possibly rejecting the said Code, there will be counter-constitutional consequences at the referendum. According to the National Assembly, the anti-constitutional consequences are already expected to arise. However, the possible rejection or suspension of the application of the law would only constitute an extension of the anti-constitutional situation. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we do not agree with such thinking, because we believe that the referendum is not only a constitutional right, but it is, in particular, one of the forms of implementation of the constitutional principle of human sovereignty, in which the country decides to enforce individual laws, that is, a way of adopting some of the most important decisions of the country. In this part, we could agree with the opinion of a well-known Slovenian lawyer who considers that, in the case of a constitutional opinion, the National Assembly is only seeking immunity from the Constitutional Court on the public debate on its proposals. In the parliamentary group, the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly to require the Constitutional Court to decide whether we would not support the postponement of the application of the Family Code or its rejection at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A good day for all, and a greeting for both the minister and the coworkers! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will, of course, support constitutional judgement, because in our view, understanding and reading, article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is very clear and, of course, human rights cannot be voted on in the referendum. I have an excellently written reminder before me, which we Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia have prepared and read several times with the experts, but if I had repeated it again, perhaps I would not have pointed out the right things, so it is possible to say certain things better in a different, more personal, more direct way and to substantiate with examples. In Slovenia, I think that we have failed the test and story of respect and the protection of human rights into a pre-election story that is full of lies and fraud and manipulation. It's like 300 articles of the Family Code don't talk about human rights, it's not about children's rights, it's about trying to show some other relationship of free choice to people who aren't. A colleague mentioned the thought that I had expressed after a careful consideration that "God loves all children equally" and that those who behave differently in a certain field of human qualities are his work and his creation, and he should never have been wronged. Today it pains me that with fire, sword and sulphur they explain this story, the story of an ideal family, those who cannot live ideal families. But if they live, they are disfellowshipped and expelled. That's what we can think! Or another case, yesterday in two places after Slovenia I met people with yellow shirts who are proud to have a father and a mother. So am I, but with a sign like that, I feel pain because my father took my cancer, and my neighbor's engine accident, and on the road. There are people who can't be proud of their family because they can't have it. Do those who are single also feel good about these inscriptions? Or do mothers with a child who lost their husband for a hundred and one reasons have opportunities, joys, and pride at such events and inscriptions? I don't think much. And here's our problem. Do you imagine that – the demographic picture of the world and Europe is inexorable – we can happen to have people walking in yellow shirts in 50 years after Ljubljana saying they are proud of the yellow color? How would you feel, ladies and gentlemen, if you were still in the world at that time, you'd be proud? I read a weekend ago that someone was proud in the Conquests because they were rooting for the Olympics and there was someone who was rooting for something else, something else on his nose. But he was proud and thought that because his right was what he was, he could just be someone who was rooting for someone else's color, his nose, and so on. I think that — in politics — we should also consider our conduct and our families. I'm sure he's someone who had a family, and he left her. He had a wife and kids, and he left them, and he went with someone younger, prettier. Can they wear that shirt to be proud of their father or their mother? A while ago, I read an interesting record, one of Slovenia's prominent national-aware politicians preached to us that homosexuality was supposed to be, not something that was born, and this is proved by a number of international studies, but that it was taught to them somewhere. Then I heard some fairy tale about playing games in the bathroom, about playing daddies with sons and so on. But I got an e-mail where the son of one of these politicians writes that his thinking and experience are completely different. Was it possible in that winning, noble game in the spa then there was something wrong? Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish up and clean up everyone before we go to our own doorstep. Simply, in the LDS Group, it is about respect for children's rights and when we talk about this law, we think about the child first. My family, by recognizing the rights of those who have no luck like my children, has nothing to lose. Even a millimeter does not have rights less, but we are mostly in Slovenia against. We're ready to go to trenches and barricades. If there is a referendum – but we want it not to be, because we think it cannot be in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution – then this will be the main pre-election topic. We are not interested in Slovenian policies anymore, and we are also interested in paying social contributions from state-owned companies. Nor are we interested in the story of such mayors as the commanding officer yesterday, who shocked and frayed. I hope that after the man told A that he would also tell B to tell whom those funds went and to whom they were given and then one who did much for Slovenia will be one. Those who are sometimes waiting for certain orders, decisions and more, months and years, are now asking ourselves why we can't or can't and we don't know. Slovenia now has a lot of other topics, other issues where we should find consensus, consensus, at least pension reform was like that, but not agreeing to be put on the trenches by such an ideological story. This is what – I think that the behaviour we have today does not lead Slovenia forward, so of course in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we want the Constitutional Court to carry out its judgment as soon as possible. Every decision of the Constitutional Court, as it has always been, we will take note of it. In this case, however, we hope that the weight of children's rights, children who cannot choose their parents, children who have not been favored by life, the interests of an ideology or the interests of politics will be weighed. Last night, I was thinking about how these human rights have changed over the centuries with our development. Human rights have lost many battles, but wars never and never. Yesterday I read an article that at the time of the Inquisition, we know its background very well, in France, more than 7,000 girls were dismembered, destroyed and burned in the best years. If we had a referendum at the time on whether the Inquisition was the right thing, we would certainly have voted it by 99%. Today, ladies and gentlemen, of course we know and we think differently. And also the story of children's rights, the same-sex partners and the Family Code, if not now, if not after the referendum, and in 20, 30 years, they will see differently, simply as it is and as it is by nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me introduce our observation that, at least now, when the legislative procedure concerning the Family Code is behind us, it is necessary to calm our passion and focus on what is really ahead of us, a procedure that we will no longer have any special impact on later, especially if the proposal for a decision, as proposed, is adopted. About the content of the Family Code, we think our society has overly polarized. Not only has it polarized, many aversions have also occurred, there have been impatiences that could no longer be reconciled. It is probably up to us in Parliament to try to ensure a somewhat calmer climate, a slightly more rational thought while acknowledging that people have the right to differ in their thinking. Even in our parliamentary group, none of the five unrelated Members voted against the Family Code. But it is true that we have not been before and we will not be able to deliver all five votes today. Most of the time, however, we will support the proposal. Every society, including ours, is in the process of continuous change, in the process of structural change and these structural changes also mean changes in social positions, in social roles, in interests and in values. That's what we're aware of. However, it is possible to identify in this respect at least two fundamental characteristics or two guidelines, one which should be said to be conservative, which seeks to stabilise as many values and interests as possible, to keep them in order to avoid changes. And a second thought that could be said to him that it is somehow more progressive, which also understands that social processes are happening and that in this regard interests, values, social situations, positions, power, influence and everything else are changing. The majority view in our Group is that social change must be acknowledged, that it is impossible to deny it because it is alive, even if we close our eyes before it, and that these changes must also be regulated legally. This is an experiment that we have done with regard to the adoption of the Family Code, using all democratic processes. And in these democratic processes, not only has the Family Code been democratically adopted, they have been and are still protected the rights of those who think otherwise, those who have remained in Parliament in the minority, and there is a legal possibility that the referendum will check and possibly obtain a majority view that these changes, which have been adopted, are not yet acceptable to Slovenian society. Some of us will be disappointed at this, but if that were to happen, we should also recognize it as a legitimate and democratic fact. The rights of the social minority are also protected. In our case, for example, those who are same-sex-oriented in the way that this is decided on the professional side by a constitutional judgment which should be non-political, which should be non-ideological and should also be somehow neutral. These differences, which, in particular, are now emerging between us, have their own corrections in some common human standards and in constitutional standards, to which those of us who have been co-signers of this requirement for constitutionality are also referred. We estimate that the essence of the referendum initiative is to try to preserve existing ones, not to adopt or confirm those substantive decisions that seek greater equality before the law and to eliminate the discrimination that exists, is evident in us, and we estimate that, of course, it also postpones what we are obliged to do in relation to the constitutional decisions that require us to put an end to discrimination. The essence of the requirement for a constitutional assessment is therefore to re-examine the correctness of our decisions regarding equality before the law, as regards the elimination of the discriminatoryness we know, and the essence is, in fact, to look more broadly at us, to learn to recognise and regulate social change. If we compare ourselves with the world, we'll see that the space for conservativeism is always less. Many countries, including those we consider to be Catholic, are already a step ahead of us, as far as we are concerned, and more and more are those countries that recognize social change and try to create a legal order so that, as far as possible, it is consistent with what is actually living in society. Prokrust's bed should become a past for us, the rigidity that some advocate in social proceedings, probably also, and whether we have the right one or the other is legitimate, legal and responsible to insist on the Constitutional Court's judgment, so we believe that this proposal for a decision must be supported and we hope at the same time, at least those who are active protagonists of this decision, so that the Constitutional Court will establish the arguments set out in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Madam Director, Members and Members of Parliament! The family code adopted by Members and Members on 16 June this year, while the state councillors and the saints have rejected the veto on it, is a reform of family law, as it updates more than 30 years old family law and the content of the law is based on professional starting points that follow the changes and demands of modern society in which we live. In the debates, we have repeatedly stressed and also stressed that the basic objective of the Family Code is to improve the protection of children's rights, regardless of the form of the family of children. That is why we supported it, and that is why we are opposed to the referendum because it puts children in an unequal position, so it discriminates against them. 309 articles of the Family Code provides a legal basis for an integrated and systematic regulation of the situation of children living in different types of families, traditional, single parental, reorganised, same-sex, foster care. In doing so, it should be emphasized that the Family Code is a legal provision based on professional backgrounds which regulates the legal relationship, the non-legislative community, the partner and non-partnership communities, parent-child relationships, the form of State aid in relation to the problems of partner and family life, and the survival, adoption, foster care and guardianship. Thus, the family code is legal matter, since it regulates professional issues in the field of family law in an integrated manner. In the long term, however, it has turned into an ideological debate area on which form of family is morally the most acceptable in Slovenia, which would make the family's values generally accepted a symbolic recognition and a special status. Moreover, even initiatives to change the constitution have been launched. We regret that for almost two years the ongoing public and political debate on the proposal for a family code has shown a fundamental misunderstanding of the dynamics of the development of Slovenian society in the field of family practices. Thus, in the debate, professional arguments were repeatedly proclaimed by ideological reasonings of opponents of the Family Code, including by aggressively and demogosically backed campaign. The purpose of this campaign is to grant the marriage of a woman and a man and a traditional family made up of a father, a mother and a child in our society special status according to other types of family, and to completely exclude the same-sex community from the Family Code and thus continue to prevent them from exercising the Constitution of guaranteed human rights. This is clearly the aim of the initiators of the Family Code referendum, despite the fact that we have adopted a compromise version of the Code in the National Assembly because of public opposition, which governs only the legal status of the same-sex partners, but does not give them the opportunity to adopt a child together. The fact that same-sex families exist and are in line with the democratic principles of our country, which are equivalent to other types of family, will not, in any case, be able to avoid a referendum to prevent the implementation of the Family Code. Such families will exist even if the Family Code is rejected at a possible referendum. Life just doesn't look at prejudice. Social Democrats note that, unfortunately, even in democracy, human rights are not self-evident; they require a strong will and commitment by the authorities to respect human rights. In this mandate, we have set ourselves the Social Democrats to improve the human rights standard already achieved, and the implementation of the Family Code represents an important step forward. In order to ensure the right to freedom, choice and formation of family life, the Social Democrats supported and co-signed a proposal for a decision to have the Constitutional Court judge the consequences of possible rejection of the Family Code. We believe that the aim of the referendum initiative, which wants to limit rights, is not to offer simultaneous protection of the rights of others, is unacceptable. The maturity of a society and the understanding of its democratic principles are most clearly reflected in how minority rights are protected in relation to the majority. And if we allow a referendum by which the initiators want to prevent the implementation of the Family Code, which is the rights of minorities, this is the same-sex family, aligns with the rights of the majority, legally regulated types of families, this means a major step back in understanding the foundations of democracy and the protection of human rights. It is clear that in a large number of more than three hundred members of the Family Code, the new legal framework for the initiators of the referendum is the most disruptive, which equates the same-sex partnership with other forms of family life. Their opposition to the law is based primarily on these solutions, and apparently the ideologically neutral and inclusive definition of the family is also disturbing, although because of the wider range of living communities covered, it provides a more systematic legal basis for the protection of the rights of children living in all types of families. We are convinced by the social democrats that by adopting a law that places children's benefits at the centre, we are strengthening the family. Therefore, we do not understand the opponents of the Family Code and their efforts to break the integrated solutions produced in the Family Code due to specific issues relating to just a few articles, and even less so to us are extremely misleading, even absurd statements of non-compliance with motherhood and paternity. We therefore point out that, in terms of protection through the Constitution of rights guaranteed, such as the right to free choice and the formation of family life, and respect for the principle of equality, which must guide every constitutional and legal state, requires an assessment of the consequences of the possible rejection of the Family Code by a referendum signed by us, to be justified, legitimate and reasoned. We are convinced that there are strong arguments that such a referendum should not be carried out. While it is true that the right to a referendum is guaranteed by the Constitution and as such fully legitimate, we believe that the initiative for a referendum on the Family Code itself constitutes an unacceptable interference with human rights, and therefore, on the basis of the expertly substantiated arguments that we have put forward in the request, we expect that the Constitutional Court of Referendum will not allow it. As co-proposers, the constitutional assessment of the admissibility of the Family Code referendum seems to us to be crucial to these three arguments; in the referendum campaign, opponents of the Family Code could encourage the spread of intolerance and hatred towards same-sex partners and families. To substantiate this: the call for a referendum continues and builds on the extensive and almost two years-long public debate on the content of the Family Code, often supported by ideological reasoning and the demagogic approaches of some visible and influential individuals and groups. This could already be an unconstitutional initiative to call for a referendum, since we believe that it promotes inequality based on sexual orientation and, in view of the experience of the debate that has taken place so far, it would encourage, as has been said, the spread of intolerance and hatred on the basis of sexual orientation. Second; violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. In our legislation, there are already a number of rules for which, if there were to be an assessment of compliance with Article 14 of the Constitution, it would be possible to establish non-constitutional discrimination based on sexual orientation. We believe that the Family Code, by equating the rights of same-sex communities and the rights of children living in these communities, eliminates an unjustified distinction. We also see Social Democrats as the only effective solution for eliminating discrimination against same-sex communities in system regulation and in one regulation, as provided for in the Family Code. Thirdly, the aim of the referendum initiative is to prevent the implementation of the Family Code and thereby restrict the constitutional rights that this Code brings. Since this is an infringement of human rights, we ask ourselves whether the referendum decision on the content of the Family Code is constitutionally permissible. Social Democrats note that in terms of the protection of children's rights, there are already a number of systemic unconstitutional consequences that violate fundamental human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. By suspending or rejecting the adopted Family Code at the referendum, the unconstitutional situation will continue and we will therefore vote in favour of the decision to assess the consequences arising from the possible rejection of the Family Code at the referendum. We expect the Constitutional Court to carefully weigh the arguments given in our request. Of course, we also hope that, due to the protection of constitutional rights, in particular the principle of equality, which is one of the fundamental democratic principles of every modern rule of law, the Constitutional Court of Referendum will not allow it. This is not about reducing the right to a referendum, but about assessing whether it is right for most to decide on the fundamental rights of those whom the rejection of the Family Code would leave in a discriminatory position. Thus, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already weighed at least twice between two constitutional rights, between the right to a referendum and the exercise and limitation of the rights referred to in Article 15 of the Constitution, and the Court has ruled twice in favour of the latter. Of course, we are aware that the decision is in the hands of this composition of the Constitutional Court, and whatever decision will be taken, will be final and will be a clear signal to Slovenian society on the level of protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. Dear fellows! The Slovenian Democratic Party disagrees with the proposal for a constitutional review of the referendum initiative. We believe that the arguments put forward by the motioners to ban the referendum do not outweigh the constitutional right to referenda. We are even convinced that the referendum is necessary because the adoption of such a code would mean the evaluation of the family and the marriage union, but also of the non-legislative community, and because it is appropriate to change the value system that so deeply affects the family as the fundamental cell of the nation has the last word, not politics, but the people. Let me also explain this position. First time. The family in the Slovenian Constitution indisputably means the community of parents and children. The entire Slovenian public, when the Constitution was adopted, understood the family as well as the then Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which is still in force, already stipulated in Article 2, that the family was a living community of parents and children, that is, a community of fathers, mothers and children. The family, as defined by the Slovenian Constitution, is obliged to protect the country. Article 53, paragraph 3, of the Constitution states: "The State shall protect the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and shall create the necessary conditions for this protection." Such an important place in the constitution is enjoyed by the family because it represents the basic cell of national existence and the best environment for the birth and upbringing of children. Parents, men and women also enjoy special protection because a child is also a sexual being, is a boy or a girl, and an environment suitable for his mental and sexual or identity development is expected to be made up of men and women in a marriage or extramarital community. The basic concept of a family is very important because all other forms of living together with a child are treated according to similarity to that definition. Thus we have single - parent families, adoptive families, foster families, and the like. Even with institutional protection and child rearing, traditional families are expected to follow the environment and also employ male educators in kindergartens. The proposed code introduces a different definition in Article 2: "The family is a living community of a child with either one or both parents or with another adult." This family is equal to the same-sex partner community and takes away the dimension of sexual bipolarity, thus the value of the natural or most appropriate environment for the birth and upbringing of children. With this, the state ignores its constitutional duty to protect not only the family but also motherhood and paternity. The European Court of Human Rights, which last June ruled on the appeal of the same-sex couple from Austria requiring the right to enter into a marriage, is of the utmost importance, as was understood at the time of the adoption of the Constitution. The European Court of Human Rights rejected their request with an explanation in which, among other things, I quote: "Article 12 of the Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of the right to enter into a marriage, does not impose on the Austrian Government the duty to ensure access to marriage for same-sex couples. Article 8 which includes the right to establish a family shall apply to men and women; the historical context of the 1950s should also be taken into account when the Convention was drafted. At that time, marriage was clearly understood in a traditional sense as a relationship between partners of different sexes." Thus, the European Court of Human Rights. Another time. Article 3 of the present law not only states that marriage to marriage is regulated by the living community of husband and wife, but also that marriage is an important part of the founding of the family. This provision binds the marriage bond and thus the extra-legal community to the family protected by the State. As a result of this provision, the legal and thus extra-legal community is under the special protection of the State, as it recognises the specific social importance of ensuring a suitable environment for the birth and upbringing of children. For the sake of children, a number of demands and obstacles, such as a family clause, are placed in order to establish a marriage or an extramarital community. For the sake of children, it is important that the marriage community is stable and mechanisms are in place to settle disputes and resolve the causes of divorce, and even if there is a divorce, relations between spouses are largely regulated by protecting children's rights. As a result of children and due to the resolution of Slovenian demographic problems, the country should pay particular attention to young people and non-legislative communities in addressing their housing and employment problems. By deleting the provision that the importance of marriage in the design of a family, marriage, and thus the extramarital community impoverish its essence. Of course, marriage also has other purposes, from fulfilling love's wishes to property security and solidarity between partners, but for the country it is of particular importance only to start a family or to create a suitable environment for the birth and upbringing of children. In the Family Code, ignoring the importance of this most natural and only effective process of preserving the nation is unacceptable to us. One of the members of the left-wing troika said the following at the meeting of the National Assembly on 11 May this year, quote, "In the crisis there is a traditional family and so is because Slovenia in the 21st century must not stand and remain a Catholic island", the end of the quote. We're obviously on different shores here. For some, marriage or traditional family is a lasting value because it offers not only a chance of personal happiness but also a child’s home and a nation’s preservation, while for others it is an anachronistic institution that is supposed to take time to their great joy sooner or later. Respectable, not understanding the same-sex partnership, understanding the family and marriage is what separates us and is the source of all these disputes. Third time. The same-sex partnership is regulated by the Registration Act of the same-sex partnership. Two years ago, the Constitutional Court warned that the succession between partners in this law was not properly regulated because it was between the same-sex partners as between the straight-sex partners in the marriage or extra-marital community. In this case, the National Assembly stated that the finding of non-compliance should be eliminated within 6 months, which is until the end of 2009. The Slovenian Democratic Party is aware of these shortcomings of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership and has already tabled a proposal in autumn 2009 to supplement the request of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, the coalition rejected the proposal. We then again tabled a revised proposal which took into account all the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, but this was also rejected. Now, the candidates for the constitutional assessment state this outstanding weakness of the law as one of the top arguments that a referendum should be prevented. The law, for example, solves the defect of inheritance by fully comparing the same sex partner community with the marriage and extramarital community. They refer to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which states that, I quote, "the discriminatory treatment we are talking about when a country treats individuals differently in the same situations on the basis of personal circumstances", the end of the quote. However, the second sentence of the same opinion of the Constitutional Court, which states, was silently quoted again by the Constitutional Court, "if the situation we are comparing is not essentially the same, we cannot talk about non-constitutional discrimination". With regard to the biological potential of conception and education, the same sex partnership is not the same as the marriage or extramarital community. Therefore, certain provisions of the Family Code cannot also apply to the same-sex partnership community. Many problems would have been avoided if government policy had left the violent separation of the natural family with the same-sex partnership community and continued to address issues of same-sex sex in a special law, as for example fostering continues to be regulated in a special law. Therefore, two years ago, government parties rejected our proposal to amend the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership, in accordance with the request of the Constitutional Court. Obviously, so that they can now justify their request to prevent a referendum. But even this argument doesn't weigh much. The Constitutional Court had already written down in paragraph 3 of its decision, and I quote, "the same rules apply to the succession between spouses of registered same-sex partnerships as they apply to the succession between spouses under the Succession Act" at the end of the quote. Consequently, the referendum rejection of the Code will not have any anti-constitutional effect, as the succession problem has been solved only by the Constitutional Court. And once the code is rejected, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are once again prepared to propose or support all necessary, meaningful and smart additions to the Registration Act of the same-sex partner community Fourth time. Children of same-sex parents are not discriminated against. Advocates of the referendum's prohibitions claim that children in same-sex partnerships are discriminated against, which is supposed to end this code. If rejected in the referendum, therefore, there should continue to be anti-constitutional discrimination against these children. This argument has no weight either. In the same-sex partner community, a child has a mother or a father. A child who lives only with a mother or only with a father, such children, i.e., who live only with a mother or only with a father, or perhaps in another living community, often with old parents, is 192 000 in Slovenia, which is significantly more than a child in the same-sex partnerships, which is only 24. We wonder if all 192 thousand children living in a legal environment like the children of same-sex partners are discriminated against? We don't think so. On the contrary. They are even positively discriminated against because, for example, they have greater benefits in children’s allowances, into kindergartens, pay for kindergartens and similar benefits than children living in the marriage community. Otherwise, today the same-sex partner can adopt his partner’s biological child. Therefore, the full equalization of the same-sex partnership with marriage is not in the service of eliminating the alleged discrimination against children whose parents live in such a community. It is obvious that the purpose or purpose of a marriage relationship, as well as the concept of a family, is self - centered and can only be surmised. Fifth. The pre-referendum debate should not be offensive. The Slovenian Democratic Party has never tried to restrict anyone's free choice of lifestyle. We never bothered people's decisions if they wanted to live in different communities. On the contrary. It was only in the previous term that, with our support, a law was passed which allows the same-sex partners to live together with legal consequences, as is the case with the legal or non-legislative community. The individual inconsistencies of this law, which has been pointed out by the Constitutional Court, are already and will continue to be addressed, and I am sure that we will succeed in the next term. For the Slovenian Democratic Party, life together has never been equally targeted by a problem. The problem began when the current government proposed a radical evaluation of marriage and family and the importance of this community for the birth and upbringing of children. And then we constantly listened to how impatient, hateful, homophobic, even fascist, after the new, also abnormal, that the street prostitute insults that some gay activists enjoy on their parades do not even talk about. All of this because we oppose the evaluation of the family and the marriage. We would like to avoid offensive speech in the pre-referendum period and to devote more attention to justifying their views that are, and apparently remain, different. Finally, let those concerned by this code of conduct decide. Six. It is pointless to burden the Constitutional Court. The referendum is indeed necessary, and we are confident that the Constitutional Court will not prevent it. With the possible rejection of the code at the referendum, no constitutional rights will be brought to justice. In our opinion, the adoption of this code would constitute a violation of Article 53 of the Constitution, which requires the State to protect the family, motherhood, paternity, children. The Family Code would not protect the country, but would significantly change the constitutional concept of the family. Yet, the code also contains many individual good solutions that we would be happy to support. If possible, we would have already requested a referendum on articles 2 and 3, which represent the definition of family and marriage, but that is not possible. Here, too, we have proposed an amendment to the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which would make it possible to present a referendum on a particular issue or article of the law, as is already possible a referendum on a particular issue of the Constitution, and you have also strongly rejected this proposal. Obviously, in this case, too, so that, in the case of the whole code, the Constitutional Court would be better able to prohibit the referendum. Everything shows that it is in the proposed constitutional judgment to try to abuse the law. Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative allows the Constitutional Court, at the request of the National Assembly, to assess whether the referendum rejection of the law would seriously affect such important constitutional rights that it would therefore be permissible to fall into the constitutional right to referendum decision when weighing the constitutional goods affected. In one of its decisions, the Constitutional Court also states the following, and I quote, 'but of course the provisions cannot be interpreted in such a way as to enable the legislator to abuse or exercise his power to destroy the right of referendum. This could be the case if it were clear that the legislator had included other issues that were not directly related to anti-constitutional law, with a view to not being able to decide on these issues at the referendum. The abuse of legislative power or its performance would not be permitted by the Constitutional Court." So the Constitutional Court was two years ago. However, the Family Code is not an example in which the legislator would, otherwise, like to eliminate some unconstitutionality, include the regulation of other issues that are not directly related to the alleged unconstitutionality, but for much, much more. This is a case in which the legislator regulates a number of things, over 300 articles, and adds to the regulation of individual issues related to the finding of non-constitutionality, obviously with a view to not being able to decide on the code at the referendum. We are also drawn to this decision by the fact that, for years without any reasonable reason, the legislator has prevented the elimination of these individual unconstitutionalities, which, by the way, the Constitutional Court has only temporarily resolved until the National Assembly itself has abolished the finding of non-compliance. We are therefore convinced that the Constitutional Court will recognize this manoeuvre of abuse and will remain consistent with its already tested principles and will not prevent citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from exercising their constitutional right to referendum. Therefore, we do not see any need for the Constitutional Court to be burdened again with a request for a constitutional assessment of the civil referendum initiative. To conclude, I would remind you of the story of the Jež family we saw on the national television last Monday. When the parents split up, the social work center assigned both little girls against their will to their mother. For many years, Father in court failed to prove that the decision was criminal and wrong. When the girls grew up a little, Dasha, an elder, after visiting her father, refused to return to her mother. Then the girls even sued the state, and they got a lawsuit, a compensation lawsuit. When asked by a journalist why she did not want to return to her mother, Dasha, now an adult student, replied that their mother had beaten them, physically and mentally. She refused to come back, even though her father urged her to visit her or at least call her. "I don't want to, she's finished!" She said. And the reporter said, "Do you miss her?" And Dash: "Of course. Missing woman, missing my mother's character," she said. Your Honor! Even so, a good father cannot replace his mother, nor can a good mother replace her father. And the baby wants both. This is so simple, but the deep and important wisdom of life is neither in law nor in the shadow. In the marriage or extramarital community of men and women, this code no longer sees any special value. Nowhere in the code is the fundamental truth that the community is the father and mother, male and female, the best environment for the birth and upbringing of children. Even in the articles on adoption, there are no criteria under which the court should choose the adoptors irrespective of the order of the candidates applied for. Nor is it stated that the environment is already an established and stable family — father, mother and possibly already a child — in principle a better environment for adoption than a single adopter or two persons of the same sex. Our proposal to at least indicate to the court in grave terms the criteria for selecting the adoptive parent was strongly rejected, as it could not have been otherwise, because the whole code is based on a distorted value concept already enshrined in the second and third articles, which are therefore also very controversial. Since this is such a drastic change in the value system, it is appropriate that the final word be given to those who are still concerned. This is 567 thousand Slovenian families, taking into account the applicable statistical definition of the family, which very correctly applies the general definition in the applicable Marriage and Family Relations Act. By statistical definition, the family is a marriage or an extramarital society of men and women who have or have no children or yet have no children and an individual man or woman with a child, the so - called single parent family. This is the way the state protects or protects the family. The law, which is the subject of this referendum, does not protect it, for it does not recognize the reason for which it deserves special state protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group, we are sure that the referendum required by the Civil Initiative for Family and Children's Rights and the possible rejection recently in the National Assembly of the Approved Family Code would lead to unconstitutional consequences, as it would discriminate against a non-constitutional part of children and citizens living in communities other than traditional marriages or families. The family code of nothing from now on applies and does not, by law and by law, take the traditional family, which is freely decided by all those who believe in it. The difference between the law and the law is that the law extends according to the constitutional principle of equality of citizens and the freedom of choice and the life-style of the same right to children and communities who do not conform to the traditional form of family and who do not enter into a marriage, only in Slovenia there are many. In particular, the principle of equal treatment and respect for the rights of all children is important. Rejecting the Family Code would destroy this equality. Only this could continue to be applied in the courts or in the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That's right. The current legislation, which is inconsistent, also allows for the recognition of these rights, as the SDS representative claimed before me, but for these rights must be fought against in court before the Constitutional Court, while the Family Code would settle final matters so that these discriminatory forms would not then be resolved in a legal manner. Children from unconventional families would be placed in a subordinate position with regard to the rights arising from regulated parenthood. We are surprised, in fact, by the fact that calls for actual discrimination at the expense of one part of the Slovenian population and children living outside the traditional family community come not only by one of the political parties of this Parliament or by more or less politicized civil initiatives or individuals with obvious political ambitions, but this time directly and very strikingly by the very top of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church. The implicit non-compliance with the requirement of repealing the Family Code with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is possible to understand precisely in statements or even threats by church ideologists, for example, the representative of the Commission for Justice and Peace at the Slovenian Skofov Conference. I quote Dr. Tadej Strehovac, secretary of that commission: "If the referendum was banned and the controversial Family Code was enforced, the Church will certainly support all those efforts aimed at such changes in our Constitution, which will adequately secure the marriage and family. Hungary can be an excellent example of how such efforts can be possible and feasible." End of quote. First question. Will the Church in the background really write us a new constitution? Even if we leave behind the eloquent and undignified fascination of the Roman Catholic Church with Orban's limited and controlled democracy; an institution that in its own kind does not allow democracy that requires privileges, for example, tax, which does not recognise gender equality and insists on discrimination against women, it would be difficult to expect a different view. Well, also, if we leave it all behind, the message of the Seeker's prediction is clear. The Constitution will have to be amended in order to make the rights imposed by the Family Code unfulfilled. In short, it would be best to change the constitution, as in Hungary, but it would no longer be a dilemma. Ergo, under the current Constitution, the same rights of all living communities and children are guaranteed. That is why the Family Code is consistent with the Constitution. If they can't break the code with a referendum, they'll demand a change of constitution. It's clear and it's fickle. We got it. Our answer, respected church dignitaries, is also clear and concise. No, thank you! I am sure that the Constitutional Judges will not overlook Dr Strehovac's message, and his statement can also help them to make a thorough assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum initiative. The key question remains what this time the summit of the Roman Catholic Church has engaged so much in the political struggle against the Family Code. What's so grumpy about, what's so grumpy about, what's the big deal about church involvement, I found an annex in the family today with instructions on how to sign and fill out a form to support the referendum. Some people have a clear answer, it's on the palm of their hand. And if there's a little bit of newspaper and media out there about six months ago, you'll find that answer there. In Slovenia, the Roman Catholic Church became involved in severe scandals. Financially, let us not forget the eight hundred millionth hole from the great financial scandal in Nadskofi Maribor. Bell 1, Bell 2 — Whom does it actually ring? Then in a number of pedophile scandals, not only in the Slovenian Church, but this is a global phenomenon that, of course, opens up questions of true relationship and true love for children in this institution. These scandals, of course, need a blurring of the situation, they need a new front where the public will forget these scandals and deal with children's rights. In such a way that feelings, negative feelings, will prevail over one part of the population and that it will be possible to manipulate the public right under the Family Code. The Zares Group strongly supports and strongly supports the requirement to review the constitutionality of the referendum required by the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights because it believes that such a referendum would be unconstitutional or directed against the rights of one part of Slovenia's population and children's rights. This is also borne in mind by the decisions already issued by the Constitutional Court and the judgments referred to above, which also gave rise to those requirements arising from non-traditional families. At the same time, we are convinced that such a referendum would trigger a spiral of hate speech, division, intolerance and homophobia, which would strongly influence the reputation of our country and reflect social cohesion and solidarity. We are convinced that this is not darkness and is not a battle of the faithful or the unfaithful. There are many religious, many Catholics who no longer fall for the flossules that come from oligarchies and nomenclatures that try to prevent the development of society and the freer life of citizens on their behalf. We are confident that the Constitutional Court will judge in the spirit of the Constitution and respect for human rights, in particular the rights of children, all children, to a decent and secure life. The Zares Group will support the constitutional review of the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In almost two years, since the first drafts of the new Family Code, much has been said, there have been countless debates and confrontations, but unfortunately we have stayed on different shores. As I have said many times before, the problem lies only in a small part of the necessary code, but it really means a fundamental intervention in our society that is not acceptable to us at all. And in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in this regard, after the adoption of the Code, we were even prepared to contribute to the parliamentary signatures for the invitation to the subsequent legislative referendum, even so that this matter would not be dragged back long into this autumn. Today, we will vote in favour of the decision of the National Assembly to order the Constitutional Court to decide whether the repeal of the Family Code or its rejection at the referendum could result in unconstitutional consequences. It is a perfectly legitimate initiative of the Members of the National Assembly and we do not oppose any constitutional opinions in the SLS Group, as we respect the authority of the Constitutional Court as the highest constitutional guardian. However, we estimate that in this case it is not really a fear of unconstitutional consequences, but rather a manoeuvre to create confusion in the public with regard to the controversial provisions contained in the Family Code. First of all, it is worth mentioning that the Family Code is a solution that is urgently needed to resolve the anti-constitutional situation in which we are currently located, and most of the above is the 2009 Constitutional Court decision. But that's just not true. Such a frequently cited decision concerns only Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community, which deals only with inheritance rights. There is no unconstitutionality in this article, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also ruled in its decision that the elimination of the found non-conformity between the partners of the registered same-sex partnership community is subject to the same rules as those applicable to inheritance between spouses under the Succession Act. Thus, the current situation in the area of family law and also in the field of the same-sex legislation is fully in line with the Slovenian Constitution, and therefore the rejection of the Family Code cannot be a cause for unconstitutionality, and any other explanation is purely misleading. However, in the SLS Group, we cannot help but reject today's rejection of the essence of the marriage union, which is really justified in the design of the family and in the existing law governing the area of marriage and family, it is clearly stated that the importance of the marriage relationship is the establishment of the family, whereas the newly adopted family code currently under consideration does not, on the contrary, define any meaning, purpose or purpose of the marriage. We all know that a child needs a mother as well as a father. Sometimes, because of certain circumstances, this cannot be ensured, but the most important thing is that we do not basically deprive him of this right. But unfortunately this code is going in that direction, so in the SLS we insist that the most important objective of family policy must be to protect children. Although some wish to portray us as backward or abnormal, as the first-signed drafter said, I hope that it has been condemned, we are neither impatient nor discriminatory in the SLS Group. We advocate that same-sex communities also have equal civil rights and living conditions, and that the legislation that partially regulates these matters has been adopted in the previous term. But in this place, it's not just about them anymore, it's about children who aren't toys and they're not justice in themselves. It is the care of the rights and benefits of a child as the weakest member of our society that is the fundamental objective of a national family policy that cannot be in the service of meeting the wishes of any social group, whether in the minority or in the majority. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we have also decided to actively engage in the collection of signatures for the referendum invitation, and we believe that the gathering of signatures after the decision of the Constitutional Court will continue and that citizens and citizens will also reject the code, in our opinion, at the referendum. For all these reasons, the SLS Group will today vote against the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Family Code has been under consideration for a half-second year, which is one of the longest considerations of any bill. It is a law that has a hugely heated debate, both professional and laymanlike. The debate goes on in many cases across all the boundaries of good taste and reminds us that we are not as open a society as we like to imagine ourselves to be. Both advocates and opponents of the Family Code refer to children's rights, while all of them, together with the retention of their adoption, continue to violate and limit the very content of the child's right to an extremely large and quality code. A simple fact that must also be recognised by absolute opponents of the Code is that after 35 years of validity of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, it is time for legislation to be thoroughly adapted in this area to the actual circumstances of family life in the 21st century. The family code is integrated in relation to the applicable family law of partnerships primarily modernised, prepared on the basis of the practice of courts and social work centres and takes over today's actual practice and the issue of marriage and family life as such. The key point of the Family Code is for the child and to ensure his or her benefit. This is what all those who delay the adoption of the law forget, even though their mouths are full of concern for children’s rights. Given that there is a huge debate behind us on the code and that today the debate is about the constitutional review of the referendum, let me briefly repeat what convinced us in the DeSUS Group that it is essential that the Family Code be implemented as soon as possible. The fact is that this code gives the child and his safety, and I benefit from more attention than we can give to the current regulation. Its shortcomings appear to be critical practically every day in public reverberations and even in those cases that we do not know about, but they are repeated in many ways, and the fact is that the child’s integrity is distorted in some way or another. Criticisms rightly go at the expense of inadequate and excessive procedures, which undoubtedly always leave consequences on the child himself. We therefore support the new developments in the procedures in which the country has to visit the family environment, and this law introduces the separation of the professional advisory work of social work centres from the decision-making phase of the necessary measure, including the decision on the care, care and adoption of the child, which falls within the judicial domain. We particularly welcome the introduction of the Institute of Child Defenders and the explicit prohibition of corporal punishment of children and other degrading treatment, thereby fulfilling the commitments of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. At the same time, we wonder if opposers of the application of the Family Code may really be afraid of these contents of the Code. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the Constitutional Court, in deciding on the admissibility of the referendum, has already several times been based on the principle that the affected constitutional values must be dealt with, in this case, with the right to a referendum with constitutional values such as: the rule of law, the right to equal treatment before the law, the right to personal dignity and security, the protection of privacy rights and personal rights, the right to remedy human rights violations, the rights of children, the prohibition to promote discrimination and the spread of hatred and intolerance, and could also be mentioned. In the DeSUS Group, we hope and wish that the Constitutional Court will find that it is necessary to give priority to those constitutional rights before the right to a referendum, as a referendum on the implementation of the Family Code would result in unconstitutional consequences. We are also convinced that in our campaign we will be witnessing the continuation of hate speech and child abuse and their rights and the concept of family. Therefore, as we say, in the DeSUS Group, we expect the Constitutional Court to decide not to rule on discrimination or non-discrimination. In the DeSUS Group, we will overwhelmingly support the Proposal for a Decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to determine whether the application of the Family Code or its rejection at the referendum would have constitutional consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Have Franz Jurša and Bogdan Barovic ready for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right to support the decision on the constitutional assessment of the referendum initiative, not just right, I think it is essential that we do so. This is also at the end of the day an opportunity for the National Assembly to check whether we can vote on this subject in a referendum. It is my opinion that we cannot vote on this in the referendum because it is a matter of ensuring fundamental human rights, and when we talk about ensuring fundamental human rights, it is right for all those who do not or are not in an equal position to ensure this. It was said earlier that a referendum was needed. I don't think there's any need for this or any other referendum that's already behind us or maybe it's still coming. It is the task of the National Assembly and the State to ensure that all human beings are treated equally and thus afford equal rights. Earlier, there had been some protest about what was normal and what was not normal and many might have felt threatened or attacked if a word was said about what was normal and what was not normal. It is important to ask how those we have felt about the Family Code or who have been referred to as unnatural, as anything but human beings, and thereby have taken away that basic human dignity and thrown them into the grip of inequality and pushed them somehow to the brink of this society. It is always important to ask ourselves when we evaluate the word of someone else, what we do with our words, or what we do when we evaluate those who may live in society a little differently from us. The fact is that the Family Code takes nothing away from breaking the traditional family principle, is still recognized in the Family Code, and there is probably a respected traditional family with a father, mother and child among us. But it is important to realize that social reality today is somewhat different, that many families of single - parent families, that many families of same - sex families and other forms of families who also deserve not only but also have to be recognized as families in law, so it is right to regulate this in a single family code. There's no way it's about grading the family. This is especially immoral today because no one wants to devalue a family with the Family Code, on the contrary, wants all the forms of families that exist, and this is also recognized today, to allow equal rights, and in particular to allow the rights of children who live in such families. The family code certainly represents a milestone in the maturity of our society. If we look through history, mankind has always wanted to push a certain group of people to the brink, to exorcise it, or to display it in the light of our society. And that's wrong. This has proved to be history, and it is right that we learn something from it. And with this Family Code, we do just that, we do a step forward, and we do what is the task of the state, and it is to ensure everyone the same rights. Today, it is also said here that the importance of marriage is simply the founding of a family. Maybe someone wants to make a marriage because someone loves each other and may not have a family at the forefront, but we also have one who cannot have a family. As a result, their marriage is no less valuable and is no less recognized in the law as regards the acquisition of certain rights. Don’t worry — even if we adopt the Family Code, the nation can be proud in the future of what has been done by this Family Law and what rights have been guaranteed to all those who need it. And it was also said that the State somehow disregards its constitutional duty by adopting the Family Code that it respects the basic principles enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If we do not accept this code, or the code is already adopted, if we go to the referendum and the code falls at the referendum, we will not change the social reality, it will continue to live among us. But we can say that at some point when we had this opportunity, we could arrange rights for everyone who lives in our society. After all, it is also a mirror of our society, a mirror of our society, because it will prove how willing we are to share happiness, the happiness of life that we can live with others in today's society. I will certainly support the constitutional opinion because I believe that such a referendum is not only unnecessary, but that we cannot vote on such things in the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. [[He's not here.]] Bogdan Barovich has the word, and Andrei Magajna and Marijan Pojbič should be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u24	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! The National Assembly has already adopted its decision on the content of the family’s so - called family code. The content is clear and now we're talking about this content, which is what almost all my forerunners have done or done, is nonsense. Today we're talking about procedures, one, actually, two. Let us be honest with ourselves and people that today's meeting is due to our incompetence, our political disharmony, sometimes impatience and lack of will to agree on some minorities, some of which almost half of the National Assembly in the well-prepared Family Code disagreed with. This wisdom was not, as a result of which today's procedural proposal, or the request of the National Assembly, required the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by delaying the application of this Code, its rejection at the referendum would have had an anti-constitutional effect. This is also the legitimate and legal right of the group of Members and Members who have made a request, such as the legitimate and legal and constitutional right to decide at the referendum on something that we were unable to agree on or make a good decision. And this yoke of serpents can be drawn to time indefinite, and now, I am cariculating, there will be another group of Members who will require a constitutional opinion on the constitutional opinion or on the proposal for a constitutional opinion that we are talking about today, and so on. It is a difficult decision to take more into account: or constitutional right, the first one that is most important to me, is that in the country of the Republic of Slovenia the people have authority, and the referendum as an instrument, I stress, as an instrument for the enforcement of the above-mentioned constitutional right, and I can also honestly think about the proposal of the Group of Members and Members on the request for a constitutional assessment. For me, I speak personally because the position of the Slovenian National Party has already been presented by colleague Sara Wheeler, the will of the people and the right, constitutional right or constitutional record that the people have power is stronger. To be honest, that's why I want to personally and leave the people to decide at the referendum. At first, I mentioned that the Family Code is not bad. However, it has some content that we could not agree on, so I am sure that, if it comes to it, the referendum will fall if people come to know and realize in their will that this code is really good. And there's no fear here. It is not fair, you know, that, like you or me, we always say that referendums are too much, that the referendum is superfluous: former, present and later. Every political option once fits a referendum if we can't agree on it ourselves. Second, if we say that the referendum is merely a comfort or a mere laying down of responsibility on the people. But sometimes it comes to finding decisions and justice in court, both in person and at the state level. Finally, I would like to say that, once again, I would like to point out, to me personally, the decision that the people who have power under the Constitution have the right to decide by referendum. Of course, I'm also a little ashamed because I'm one of the ninety people who we don't know how to make a deal with and who don't find some kind of agreement or find something that suits us all. But not the nineties, but the kind of solution that will fit all the people we're here for. From this point of view, I personally will not support today's request by the National Assembly for a decision whether the referendum would have anti-constitutional consequences. I'm going to end with the winged winged one mentioned today, if you say, "God loves all the children." Unfortunately, one is more than the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. [[He's not here.]] Marijan Pojbič has the word to prepare Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u26	Dear Mr. President! I am proposing a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by delaying the application of the Family Code or by rejecting a referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences, I will not support. I think that Dr Cukjat, when representing the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, has very clearly, precisely and very clearly defined why we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Like all those gathered today in the National Assembly, we know that we have spent a great deal of time in enforcing this law. I think we have spent more time than any law adopted in this term in the National Assembly. I am convinced that there was absolutely enough opportunity to find a compromise solution that would be acceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as we see today, due to the stubborn insistence of some individuals and lobbies, who forced the coalition and the government to propose such a proposal, which is not acceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, today we have come to the point that we will have a referendum on this proposal or this decision, which we are talking about today, will go to the Constitutional Court. If all of us sitting in this House, not the left, not the right, not the middle, know and gather enough wisdom, the best solution would be a compromise solution, where two key articles would not be included in the Family Code, which are problematic, which lead this story in this direction, as we are considering today. We know exactly that the same-sex partnership communities and the same-sex partnership issues could be resolved by law that exists. This is the Registration Act of the same-sex partner community. We could upgrade it, and there we could solve all this problem that burdens the same-sex partner communities. In my personal opinion, however, this topic is not part of the Family Code, because it is not possible to equalize the same sexual partnership with the heterosexual family and I have been in the National Assembly a hundred times in the Slovenian environment to point out that a heterosexual family cares about the practical existence of the world and cares about reproduction. How can a homosexual community take care of reproduction? Somebody explain this to me. I asked a thousand questions once and for all, and how can these two communities be equalized: a heterosexual family and a same-sex partner community. How is that possible? Yes, as many as a thousand-- a million times you'll have to tell me that you'll once realize that it's impossible to equalize it, and that's exactly what this family code is all about. This is a fact, you can't challenge it, it can't be evened out; at the same time, of course, I also oppose that two gays can adopt a child. This is my personal opinion, which I think identifies most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think this decision would be necessary today if we knew in the right way how to listen to each other in the right way, we knew these two key things to get out of the Family Code and to solve this problem in a law that already exists. There have been many reasons, including the Constitutional Court's decision and so on, but the Constitutional Court's decision has only referred to the problem of succession and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have already proposed twice in this mandate an amendment to the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership, where this problem would have been resolved, although the Constitutional Court has already resolved this problem in the course of its decision. But no, there was nothing to be heard, both marriage proposals were rejected only for this reason and the argument that the same-sex partner communities would be pushed into the Family Code. The only goal, the only wish, was and also the same-sex partner community to equalize it with the family, so to put it in the Family Code. None of you can look anywhere you want, can convince me that there was no problem for same-sex partners to solve in the Registration Act of the same-sex partnership. No one can tell me that! In this law, it was possible to write everything down, and at that point we would be able to get rid of the referendum, to resolve the burdens of the Constitutional Court, and to get rid of the many costs that now arise just because we didn't know how to agree here inside. However, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have over their heads all this waste of taxpayer money, over their heads, but this is not the fault of the opposition, which someone will say again, the Slovenian Democratic Party or opposition is to blame for this referendum. No, no, no. This referendum has produced a civil initiative involving at least 60,000 people and you simply ignore it as if these people in the Republic of Slovenia do not exist as if they are not. And you yourself know that the public opinion of Slovenia does not favour such solutions as are written here. 90% of Slovenes and Slovenes have told you that these solutions are unacceptable. Most citizens and citizens do not think that same-sex partnerships should exist and have nothing against it, as I personally, absolutely nothing, to be beautiful, to be beautiful, to be loved, to do what they want! However, we do have a law that exists and that can be upgraded and drafted so that same-sex partnerships have normal living conditions in the way they want and should be provided by a democratic society. But no, you insisted stubbornly, this must be pushed into the Family Code just to spend the taxpayer's money, that it is in the face of a referendum, that it is now in the hearing of the Constitutional Court and so on. All of this could have been avoided. And one more thing, we have spent more time on the Family Code and on the same-sex partnership communities when this government and this coalition have spent on solving the socio-economic and economic crisis in this country. You don't care when we have one hundred and twenty, one hundred and thirty thousand unemployed, you don't care when we have, I don't know how many people who are broke, six, seven, eight months and so on. You don't care how banks work, how Slovenian banks treat taxpayer money and spend it on cubicles. You don't care. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u27	Mr Pojbich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u28	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u29	Come on, I'm begging you too. Slowly go back to the content of the law, not to everything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u30	It's all tied up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u31	No, not to this marriage, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u32	Mr Vice-President, allow me to express my opinion on why I object to this decision going to the Constitutional Court. It's because of these things! And, look, rather than allowing time that is still very important for our citizens and citizens, at a time when virtually most people cannot live, we are wasting ourselves on providing one small lobbyist group with one of the least parties in this House, of course, to ensure that same-sex partnerships are treated the same way as a heterosexual family. That's the whole point of the problem, the whole problem! And we belong to this lobbyist group, and most people can't live. I don't understand how this is possible and we don't care, and today we're ready to discuss this issue again for six, seven hours because when it was time, we didn't solve this problem in the right way. And that's what's absurd. Therefore, I personally object that this decision goes to the Constitutional Court and, of course, I will vote against such a solution today. It is said that if this code did not enter into force, there would be unconstitutional consequences. Look, even if the referendum is banned, this law will only enter into force in a year. What about at this time? What about this time, I'm asking you. Will there be no unconstitutional consequences at this time, or will there be no consequences? I don't understand that proposaler that he didn't see it coming in here this year, he's not here this year. What about at this time? So at this time, these people, I don't know how they're going to work. I don't understand that! Therefore, the arguments cannot possibly stand if the time period of this year is in between where these solutions will not apply. Then the arguments cannot hold, I see no reason for the Constitutional Court to decide and prohibit this referendum. Today, some of the ladies or lady from Social Democracy have said that she is convinced that the Constitutional Court will not allow a referendum. How can one of us Members allow himself to judge how the Constitutional Court will decide? Tell me, how can anyone afford it? It is said that we have prophets here or we have an extended hand of the Constitutional Court in Parliament. It is said that the Social Democrats are all-powerful in this country, led by Borut Pahor, because we see how all-powerful you are, you have already proved. And so on. It is my personal opinion that if one of the members of the parliamentary group speaks like that, it is my personal assessment that he is already trying to exert direct or indirect pressure on the Constitutional Court in this way. And that's unacceptable! I would never let that happen! It is true that I have my opinion and I am sure that the Constitutional Court will decide on these arguments and will decide as it decides. Whether it will decide to prohibit the referendum or to allow the referendum, this is a matter for the Constitutional Court. But my personal assessment is that we shouldn't have to do this. That we're competent enough people in Parliament. Nonstop, we spend money and time day by day, and we don't understand in any way that the money we spend is not ours, it's not ours, it's from people, it's from people who are employees, who work, who create. I have been thanking God for several years where I have been creating and working for those who were before me in Parliament, and I am proud to do my utmost to do what people have voiced in the elections of the National Assembly. For me. Most, but the coalition here, as if living, I will not repeat this, that they will not eventually really move to the Moon, because I heard that there are some possibilities there, that Mars is possible life, that it would be best to travel there, and maybe then, you know, before we go back, the government would change, so that people would live easier. A little joke, that's a joke. I think that what we're doing today is wrong, of course it's legitimate, I have to say, it's legitimate, but it's not right, because if at the right time we took the right solutions that I'm talking about today, we would save these 5 million, we would save all those hours we spend on the referendum, on that story, so on this decision going to the Constitutional Court and so on. And at least I hope and wish that in the future we will be able to significantly more wisdom together, because, after all, it doesn't matter what I think, what is important is what citizens and citizens want, and I hope that we will start thinking and find a way to find a common solution that will not share us so much or such solutions that will be written on the skin of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That we will be able to create this in Parliament. So that we can start and create this so that we don't divide into left and right, yellow, red and I don't know what. This has to mature once. And that we will not divide strictly into opposition, coalition and anyone else when it comes to important things that are important for our country and our citizens and citizens. And once again, you wouldn't have to do that here. We were close enough when we could elegantly arrange things and not degrade the family as it is now degraded, we would not degrade the family and the same-sex partner communities would have everything that is absolutely necessary for them to function normally in society. And no one would get hurt. Thus we have separated not only Parliament, we have also separated the Slovenian public, although the Slovenian public is up to 90 per cent convinced that these decisions are wrong and bad; and if we continue as we have done so far, I think this will be a bad journey for the future. And I hope that the future solution to these and similar problems will be resolved here in the National Assembly, but not always burdening not only citizens and citizens, including the budget and all those who pay in the state budget, and I hope that we will start to be aware of this slowly by all of us in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always have a clear position, we know exactly what we want and I think that, even during this three-year period, we have been fully engaged to help solve the problems of this society, not in the way that the coalition now complicates them from day to day at the expense of taxpayers. And that is what I hope and believe that we will one day understand that it is wrong, that it is the wrong way and that we cannot do so, we do not work in the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or those who have chosen us. Therefore, I would like to conclude once again that I will vote against this decision because I am sure that it would not be necessary. Just as a referendum would not be necessary if we could agree in the right way earlier when the time was right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Črnak Maglič asked for the floor as the proposer of the decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to say that before certain words are instilled in me, I suggest reading a magnetogram in which I have never claimed what I was told. It was earlier the other way around, so it is necessary to know exactly what the applicant proposed. The second thing I would like to talk about is that it is not only a right, but it is also the duty of the National Assembly to ask the highest possible instance for this purpose if there is a suspicion of a conflict of constitutional rights. And when we cited the arguments, the arguments that were related to the interpretation of the Constitutional Decision on Article 22 of the ZRIPS were deliberately or unwittingly, namely: the constitutional review procedure was initiated with a view to demonstrating on one case how the legal system was discriminatory and the applicants showed in their explanation the whole type of discriminatoryness resulting from the same disregard of Article 14 of the Constitution, and no one denied it. This discrimination exists and therefore we have also said that, in order to remedy one right, we must also correct the other rights that arise for the same reason. And another thing I'd like to react to. The story of the possibility of the adoption of same-sex partners is repeated. The National Assembly has self-limited itself and, unlike the candidates or supporters of the referendum, has made a strong compromise and withdrawal, if you will, a step back. Indeed, in the two points which seemed the most controversial to society, this is the definition of marriage and the possibility of adoption of children has been compromised. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have made a compromise, and you have not. And you're forcing one right that you interpret through your own, that's your legitimate right, just not to say that we weren't capable of this agreement. That's what we did. The current Family Code of Bilateral Adoption, it is said that if one of the same-sex partners is not the parent of the child, adoption is not allowed. And I ask this to be properly understood, because the Slovenian public is still being misled, which does not know the Family Code. And it is clear that by misleading the public and half-truths about what the Family Code says, of course, we can easily get our supporters as well. I'm still saying why do we want a constitutional review? Yeah, because we don't want to spend the taxpayer's money. Because we hope that there will be sufficient arguments to weigh the conflict of constitutional rights in order for the Constitutional Court to decide as it has already decided twice. You also argued that the right to a referendum was an absolute right, but the Constitutional Court ruled in favour of human rights. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor to prepare Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is clear to me that it would be utopian to expect that we will be a witness today to be a patient and reasoned debate, as we should only talk about whether there are legitimate reasons for the Constitutional Court to impose a constitutional judgment on the Constitutional Court whether the application of the Family Code or its rejection at the referendum could lead to unconstitutional consequences. I regret to say that I do not remember what law so far has led to such inadmissibility and the spread of intolerance to the same-sex communities and even to their children. And all this in the mental health care care for the greatest benefit of these children. Can we agree that the same sexual orientation of an individual is his personal circumstances, within the meaning of Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and within the meaning of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? There has never been any doubt about this, not in the drafting of our Constitution in 1990 and 1991, nor in the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, nor in many decisions of our Constitutional Court. Article 14 in both of the highest legal acts commands that they be to everyone — everyone! – guaranteed the same – the same! — human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of any personal circumstances. And these "everyone" are same-sex people, including those living together in a living community with an same-sex partner, and these "everyone" are also children living in such a community or family. The Constitutional Court has already adopted several decisions relating to the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution concerning the legal relationship between the same-sex partner, with regard to the legal consequences, of the existence of such a long-lasting community. Of course, it is particularly important for the legal system to properly regulate the obligations of parents to children and especially the rights of children in relation to parents and in relation to society. And that's exactly what the Family Code regulates. Today, it has already been mentioned that the constitutional regime continued to develop even after 1991. The international legal acts which Slovenia later ratified and thus became an integral part of our legal order are particularly sensitive to the issues of children's rights and the realization of those rights. Protocol No 1 was adopted and ratified. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which expressly prohibits all discrimination. As you know, the legal regime follows in principle the real situation and the development of relations between people in society. So I really don't understand how many people today don't understand that the families we're talking about are already here and today, so they're an irrefutable fact. And the undeniable fact is that many children already live in such families. And these children must have the same rights as all other children, including in terms of subsistence, inheritance, care in case of illness and so on and so on. In yesterday's discussion on the working body, there was a reference to Article 53 of our Constitution, which specifically protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth, and creates the necessary conditions for this protection, so some of them did not want to or intend to protect families in particular from that traditional and not other parenthood than that traditional one. Well, all of these should read and not only read, but also understand the fifth paragraph of Article 15 of our Constitution, which stipulates: "No human rights or fundamental freedoms regulated in legal acts in force in Slovenia shall be restricted by the excuse that this constitution does not recognise it or that it is recognised to a lesser extent." If we also understand this fifth paragraph of Article 15 of our Constitution, we will understand why this decision must be taken today in order for the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not the consequences could arise if the Family Code is not enforced or if it is rejected at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Get Marian Kriszman ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I think that today's debate, even though it may be very broad, is, however, focused on the key issue; whether the initiative of the Constitutional Court is to determine whether the referendum on the Family Code would be in accordance or inconsistent with the Constitution and our constitutional order, acceptable and justified. That is what the National Assembly decides today. I am more confident than ever about these initiatives. I think it's a mixed impression of democracy on its own. Some of us today and in these days, vehemently, convince us that the authority of the people is absolute, but the authority of the people has one small but important limitation, and this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees this authority of the majority, but on the other hand, I am sure that with carefully measured safeguards, it also protects the rights of the minority. You know that river when they came for the black man, I didn't say anything because I'm not black. When they came for Rome, I didn't object because I wasn't Rom. When they came for the communists, I didn't object because I'm not a communist. But after I was in the Maribor administrative unit yesterday and saw the zeal of some supporters of the referendum, I wonder who will stay when they come for them. Each of us is sometimes in a minority situation. And then, when we belong to the majority, it may be worth considering exactly what it is like not to belong to most, what it's like, when few people are willing to vote for your defense, because not only are you Slovenian constitution, but also the acquisitions of civilization and the development of humanity speak of you being the same as you are, equal and equal to all others. It makes a man sick to listen to the debates of members of this Parliament about what is normal and what is not normal. I think the civilisational development of our society has done so far with this dilemma. And if what is normal is what the zealous opposers of the Family Code promote today even in this National Assembly, then I'll get ahead of myself and say, I don't want to be normal. I think that this means disqualifying a minority, but also equal and equal members of our community, who, in their own consciousness, have decided, by their own will and by their own personal circumstances, to love differently. And the flags used by opposers of the Family Code are supposed to be justified and colored with love, but what is a family other than a place of love? But at the same time, from the release of these flags, there is so much hatred that it seems to me that the atmosphere in this hall and in this country is becoming unsustainable because of this hatred. Of course, it is possible to change the constitutional order in which we live, in which we the Slovenians justified ourselves, and it was until recently something that we all swore together that it was the foundation that was common because this constitutional order was born at a time when this nation and our community also reached the highest historical consensus. I acknowledge to the initiators of the referendum that their initiative is legitimate, I understand part of their opposition, but, at the same time, it should be made clear that it is also an absolute legitimate initiative for the Constitutional Court to determine whether the referendum and its implementation is legal or not. I firmly believe that not because I think that we cannot judge some things by the principle of the majority, but that it is our duty, that the responsibility of the responsible policy and responsible part of the vocabulary is to protect, in an appropriate way, the minority that may be deprived of the majority vote. I do not understand where the traditional family feels, in such a life alone, so attacked by institutions that are comparable to the most developed countries in Europe and the world, not only the most economically developed, but also culturally the most democratic and tolerant countries in the world. Where, then, is this attack, when, in a comparable way, democratically, is governed in a free manner by the rights of the real minority? I think that identity only comes into contact with another identity. I feel the most about Mariborians when I'm in Ljubljana. I feel Slovenian most when I'm abroad. And I don't understand why some people think it's an attack. I'd take that as a good starting point, just to teach my children some sort of lifestyle that I believe in. But it's not that another example of life threatens my example because we live independently of each other. And traditional families are not at risk in any way, because they will also coexist independently of others. Guns N' Roses already sang "Live and Flight Live" – live and let live. I think we should all think about this old sentence. Do we really live the way we want to live and, above all, let others live the way they want to live? Given that we were previously invited to travel to Mars, I believe that some are already on Mars, at least judging by how far they are from recognizing Slovenian and social reality. I will vote today in favour of the initiative to have the Constitutional Court decide whether this referendum would be in accordance with the Constitution or not. I am convinced that this referendum, like other cases where we may be deciding on fundamental human rights in the principle of majority and minority, cannot be if this country wants to remain a democratic Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Get Franci Kek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This debate "referendum – yes or no" reminds me more of the then debate on neighbourhood aid, where some of our colleagues insisted at all costs that we should go to a referendum because this law would not allow neighbourly aid. And then people who live in these environments come forward, where they're very worried about what's gonna happen, when we can't help a neighbor of grapes rip, we won't be able to help dig out potatoes, we won't be able to help the roof fix and so on. Such fat lies flew to make her head ache. They found it difficult to explain that neighbouring aid was adopted by law in 2000. She had nothing to do with that law, but it was necessary to go to a referendum in order for the ruling option to hang another referendum, and so it is now. A referendum must be held at all costs. In addition, it is necessary to call the Church and all those who are ready for another referendum to take place and to show up with a finger at the failure of the government or coalition. Since there are no other reasons, I do not see them, they are seen by some scarecrows who fear that after the adoption of the Family Code the family will be lost. That's not true. And today a lot of people have already said that it's not true and read the Family Code; some of you have debated, I think you haven't seen it since before, let alone read it. Therefore, read it and do not deceive the Slovenian public with Flossules, as Mr Strehovec submitted to the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. More times than he came, I was more concerned about what kind of society we live in, and at the end, when all the members of the committee gave their statements and impressions of how we experienced this whole story, all the discussions around the Family Code that were long, long, and different, I said that I was strange and that I realized that we were living in a country that was not mature enough to be in the background, black, lost. What some on the committee said and presented their views, and since this was confused with common sense, this was the case in the year 1700, in the time of the Inquisition. And if you can convince the electorate, then we have to worry about what kind of country we live in. I'm worried. Yesterday, I watched it on TV in yellow, it's probably a January color, these Romanians were walking in front of administrative units, and they were urging people to sign. A reporter came, asked a lady, "What do you sign?" She said, "I'm against it." "Yes, what are you up against?" "Yeah, they're trying to break up the family." "No," he says, "they don't talk about family termination in the Family Code!" "Yes, but then I'm against it, but that's why I'm against it!'," she said. Maybe they'll spin this video again, that's the state of the spirit that you've produced: dull, dark, vague. The main thing is that it's a circus, and you're obviously doing it. If that's why the electorate rewards you, then poor country, if you take it into your own hands. I think that the Family Code needs to be talked about much more patiently to other thinkers and otherwise living, otherwise only what we say is important, and everyone has to live as we think. And what the chairman of the committee read today, colleague Andreja Črnak Meglič, read in the first part, where it says that the Family Code only regulates the legal status of same-sex partners, but does not affect the wider area, specifically in the area of joint adoptions and same-sex partners. This is what she read today, you have it in you if you have been able to read, and in the last paragraph you have very nicely written that the Constitutional Court will weigh various constitutional rights and you should let him judge whether one right can limit another; the Family Code decides on the legal regime and not on the values you speak of, or the Church does not have to talk about it because they are very hasty and the bishops have signed on how people should think about what people should do. And they share the leaves, as someone said, in the family, I think it was a colleague of Franco Juri, in the family is a form of how to fill it out, please. Where did you see such farces? It's a farce! Yeah, I'm not gonna do it again, but that's clear. And God help you, or in this case God does not help you. Let me continue, the Family Code decides on the legal regime, not the values, as has been said, and it is important how one understands the family. Today Mr Cukjat has had his own report, or I appreciate his debates, even if he thinks otherwise, he has some other views and so on, although they are at odds with this bill, but he can say it in a way that I think is appropriate, regardless of the fact that he has a completely different opinion and otherwise thinks. However, the fact is that I am sure that, with its achievements on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, it has contributed greatly to the opening of this debate. However, he also contributed greatly to the poisoning of this debate. Well, it is also appropriate that the definition of a family in this form, as stated in the Family Code, has also been accepted by the United Nations declaration, if it means something or not to anyone, but it is discriminatory that we do not recognise citizens who are otherwise sexually oriented, the rights which are enjoyed by the majority, because the same relations must be treated equally. [[...]] So if we listen to our colleague Andrea today, what she said is essential, I think the essence lies in these two parts, we could talk today about the fact that the classic family is not threatened in anything, no one is harming her, dad, mom and kid are staying, but we are now the ones who will take care of the referendum with the majority of us to limit all those who think differently. And that is, you know, "who is not with us is against us," which is your own, and God help you, I hope that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will understand the message of the Family Code and will of course act as I think it would be right and that is that they will not deny the rights of minorities. Since it's not about cutting down on the rights of others, I can't have one right and cut you off from the other, because I'm the only one who can enjoy what I think is right. Of course, I will support this decision today, and I will not predict how the Constitutional Court should act, but it seems to me that this is a civil code, that the Family Code, which is in fact the constitution of the family, captures all segments of society and this particular Family Code, which has covered all segments of society and has given all segments of society its rights. And there's nothing more to add or subtract here. As it is said, the referendum that you produced through a civil initiative and that I do not speak through anyone else is just another flossule among many Flossules, where you cannot and do not agree to any solution, but just to tear down, tear down and tear down. A very good example is the neighborhood aid, as I said at the outset, where you pulled out a huge and fat lie, just as you are dragging it now around the same-sex families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor to prepare for Miran Györek. Please, please, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. There is a lot of talk about traditional family, I also express all respect for traditional family, but aware that there are also different and different ways for different reasons. We hear more than once, the child is entitled to his father and mother, but what if he doesn't have that option? I can tell in my own case, because one week before I was born, a drunk driver ran over my father to death. Should I have stopped in my mother’s belly? To make the measure even more full, I lived with my mother and my father’s aunt until the end of elementary school. It was just a housing crisis, and we lived together, so with two women, I survived. I think we're listening in the National Assembly to opponents of the constitutional judgment of a lot of deception. Traditional families don't take anything. The adoption of children by same-sex couples is not possible, how many times have we heard it and how many more times will we be. And when I listened to a famous singer who said, "I haven't read this Family Code, but it sounds like a lot of things, and most people won't decide about the minority, so let's just sign this." The last sentence further confirms that it is indeed before the Constitutional Court to judge this initiative for a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to prepare Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I really don't know if I'd say anything else or not, I'm afraid I'm not missing some maliciously inappropriate word, and I'm going to be burned again as a hateful speaker or a cause of impatience, but look! I would not discuss the content so much now, I expected, as my colleague Barovic said from the point of view of the Slovenian National Party, that we would talk more about the legal aspects, the consequences of the adoption or non-admission of the law at the referendum, and not so much about these substantive matters, because we ourselves obviously failed to reach consensus within the National Assembly about not saying "something small", which eventually triggered a great, tremendous revolution between the Slovenes and Slovenians. But what is even more worrying and what worries me is that I note that from debate to debate, from hour to hour, everything about this code gets a purely ideological connotation. We've come to an ideological battlefield and we don't realize that this is a matter that can be very thin ice and even that someone is sinking into pretty cold water. The impression is that we are those who oppose this code or who support the law going to a referendum, some conservatives: smoldering, backward, opponents of social development in Slovenia. On the other hand, you want to impress the proponents or advocates of the law that you are advanced liberals, those who care that Slovenian social life will progress as worldly people, as those who know where we should go, and all the rest of us are stuck conservatives, who do not understand you, who are backward. Now that, of course, this is also her right, not last but without defending her – the Roman Catholic Church has apparently activated a little in collecting these signatures, but a colleague of the predecessor has attacked this very impatiently, it is said that the matter is completely ideologically exposed and I have the feeling that there is no judgment here anymore. But it is a code that the majority of Slovenians seem to object to, and this is a responsibility, the fault of the proposer. He knew very well what kind of thin ice it was coming down to, and this is not the only code that we are adopting here in these three years, and he knew in advance that it was going to happen, but now he's just on fire and I don't know how you can expect a reasonable decision here in the Constitutional Court, too, because now we've passed all the responsibility and decision to the Constitutional Court, which is not so ideologically innocent. We already know how decisions are made there, there are also results 6:3,5:4 and I fear that the result will also be 5:4 and now tell me whether it will be a plus or a minus, because it does not matter, it is said that it will not be an ideal decision and will trigger completely new and even worse disputes between the Slovenian people. What I resent is that he did not have a little more patience to reach consensus within the National Assembly, but that would not have happened. So to conclude: we have brought this matter in the wrong direction. It bothers me. I certainly don't want to be a conservative, a backstabbing, because I object not only for personal reasons, but from my secular point of view, I object to such a law in a few points, and I now generally turn out to be a misogynistic conservative. Wait a minute, because I'm a hippie generation, a rock and roll generation, because I went through a lot of obstacles, and we skipped them and survived them! Now you put me in a group of those who oppose the development of social life in Slovenia. It's not nice that you brought this matter so far and this is where judgment stops. So, wait and see to it that we have a reasonable result! That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. The fact is that with these attempts to prevent a referendum with the help of the Constitutional Court, this coalition is entering the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism. If Slovenia did not have the right to a referendum and a people's initiative, then Slovenia would not have its own country, there would be no Slovenian state, because there would be no plebiscite, there would be no Slovenia and probably many people still want it today. Today, article 14 of the Constitution has been repeatedly mentioned here, but the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, which speaks of the power of the people, has not been mentioned. This authority, however, is exercised directly and indirectly by the people. The right to direct exercise of power is exercised by the people at the referendum and directly at the elections. And, of course, the ban on the referendum is a ban on the direct exercise of the authority of the Slovenian people, and such a ban is inconsistent with the Slovenian Constitution. In some ways, we can also draw a parallel with early elections, including avoiding early elections, despite the fact that the state is in agony, it is a kind of restriction on the right to vote. Given the way this power and this coalition adheres to their chairs and weakens early elections, it might not be foolish to ask the people at the referendum whether the Slovenian people want early elections. In this case, I believe that this coalition in Parliament would also seek to ensure that early elections or referendums do not take place. The referendum shows, of course, that it should be prohibited to impose any unconstitutional or unconstitutional consequences on the referendum. But let us ask ourselves whether the Slovenian people can vote against the Constitution. Was Slovenian plebiscite an anti-constitutional act? If he was, of course, this country has no legitimacy. That's why I think it's good to trust people. Three years ago, they elected this coalition, this power, they elected a bad power, people made a bad decision, but it was a legitimate decision, there was nothing to add. And let people decide on this issue at the referendum as well. Of course, you will vote this motion unanimously today, the Constitutional Court will later carry out a proportionality test and, in my opinion, the referendum should be allowed. It is concerned, however, that this coalition serves to limit the referendum or direct decision-making. For example, on yesterday she closed several local offices in Slovenia, yesterday when signatures began to be collected. In Mežica, the local office opened twice a week, including on Thursday, and was simply closed yesterday and the collection of signatures was not possible. As you can see, I haven't said anything about the content of the Family Code, because in recent years, in the last year, there has been a tremendous amount of talk in recent months. However, I must add that he would be genuinely concerned if two "men" from the Slovenian political space could adopt my children, then he would be very concerned. The term "man" is not mine. The term "man" is used by psychoanalyst Vodeb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Get Anton Urh ready, mag. Majda's looking for him. Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself support the proposal to rule that the Constitutional Court has decided on the matter, especially because the law in this room has been adopted and it is not true that we have not agreed here. It's only true that not everyone agreed to this and that there was no consensus. And I ask those who object to the decision of the Constitutional Court, where would they have come if all the laws went to the referendum, if one of the parliamentary parties, any of them, disagreed with it? And that's the problem. It also called for "respecting the right of the people to decide" in many ways because the people would doubtless have decided, for example, that they should have all the same pensions or all the same salaries, regardless of the fact that someone contributed differently and that they paid differently for their pension rights. Therefore, it is not possible to leave everything to the people, although I absolutely recognise their right to participate in decision-making, and one right is also to elect the Parliament which has decided on the Family Code. In particular, the majority should not decide on human rights. And a journalist wrote nicely that if most were to decide on human rights, they would have expelled Roma from this country long ago, sexually oriented, wiped out, communists and so forth, partisans, as many as are still alive. It is a shame for all those who in this way invoke the right of the people to act on a majority basis to the detriment of a minority who, under the Constitution of human rights, has a guaranteed and does not have a referendum and cannot be denied by Parliament without changing the constitution that is still in force. And that is why I am not talking about the content of the law, which I consider to be a compromise, an acceptable compromise that solves the main problems of the area being regulated, but whether it is justified and justified for the Constitutional Court to decide whether the human rights of minorities in this country should be decided by a wider audience, which, among other things, misreads the law, which can be seen from the referendum on the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, when the people followed the opposing policy rather than the content of the law that has fallen needlessly and will therefore be pricked again. I am convinced that the financial issue of our country in this case is also one that should remind anyone who advocates the referendum that 4 million is too much for people to be above the minority that this law deals with among other things. 4 million is not enough money if we know that there are many workers on the verge of survival, that we have a lot of those who need solidarity and financial assistance, and we are going to waste them on the success of a policy that forces them into the Middle Ages, even though someone said that's not true. It is certainly true that the requirement is that those who are supposed to have equal rights be treated separately after the Constitution, a step back in the development of human relations and contrary to what modern Europe already has today. I will support this conclusion myself, and I hope it will be largely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh will not discuss it. Mag. Majda Potter. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am trying to start my debate with a position which should be binding on the representatives of the legislative branch. In view of the fact that their views on the proposed texts should be drawn from the point of view of the legal standards that apply in the individual text and that the legal standards should put the same relationship in the same position and should not be based on a distinction. It is even worse if, instead of respecting legal standards, the relationship to a marriage text grows from prejudices and stereotypes. And it's the Family Code to which we should have no other position in the way we deal with it than any other marriage. Therefore, the fact that the Family Code was largely confirmed in the National Assembly gives me legal validity. Nor was he challenged by the State Council by veto, nor was the veto voted. And in the Family Code, we face a situation where some, because of their valuable ideas about life or prejudices, decide to exercise the legitimate right to request a referendum. But at the same time as Members of Parliament, it is my right not to say the duty to judge whether a referendum on such a legal mother who decides on the exercise of human rights is permissible. And I can regret that there have already been referendums in our country, which, in my opinion, should not have been held, given that we decided at the referendum on fundamental human rights and that, after the unvoted referendum or after the failure to enforce the law, minority rights have been trampled on for this reason. And I think it's imperative that the Family Code prevent such a situation. I would like to point out that, in fact, in the debates on the Family Code, we want to set up a valuable hierarchy of equal or equivalent phenomena. The fact that we're putting up one type of family, and I'm not doing it, but when some people put one type of family, as the only saving type, as the ideal type, as the value above all others, is unacceptable to me from the standpoint of law and legal standards. Kek explained earlier why it is impossible to talk about the right of the father and mother for purely objective reasons, since this right cannot be realized in all situations. And whenever I see this slogan, "Child has the right to father and mother," I think about something else. Why did the Family Code also need to include provisions for the identification of paternity? We talk about how children feel in those different families, which we do not refer to as "traditional families", and we are very concerned about how these children feel. They often feel bad about the negative response of the environment to them, not because the family does not provide enough security, enough care and everything that is needed for optimal child development. A well - known anthropologist spoke of the need for different characters to form a personality, but if these characters are in the body or in the body of a woman, there is another question. And I would like to develop this question of my own, which is on my mind. Whether we are convinced that there is no one among us in the National Assembly who has not readily accepted paternity or even fatherhood needs to be identified. Then how does a child feel about the fact that the mother can be identified in most cases, except in the case of children who are committed immediately after birth, this information is not made public. But if we're watching, how does that child who knows he has a father feel and who knows that his father didn't want to admit him? And now we are here to absolve and put only fathers and mothers from the traditional type of family on the pedestal. Because when we talk about being an ideal family, we automatically ask a single parent’s family. And that seems unacceptable to me in this context. There are many things that can be understood from the answers that people send or that they express at the expense of normal and natural. Well, it seemed to me the most convincing thesis, or the answer given by the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in one of the many long-term discussions, when he said, "If we are talking about sexually oriented people, or if they were not born naturally, they are, in most cases, the result of a heterosexual relationship." And how dare we then judge what is natural and what is normal. Many experts also point out that rational arguments are the hardest to fight against prejudice. And once again, we are witnesses to prejudice and stereotypes. I will not quote in which text, but many of you will remember, in which text is written, "the battle of marked people". This fear of people who are not like me is very ingrained and centuries old. And this one plagues us before we're open to accepting diversity. And if a person wanted something, I would want them to know it at this level of awareness, and I can't be convinced by those, and it's too little if they say, "I don't have anything against the same sexual orientation, only in the Family Code they can't be taken into account." Not to mention a more drastic case, which was also publicized, but they said so roughly, there were more of them who said, "I know that such people exist, but why should they warn themselves." So the difference that exists is permissible only if it stays hidden somewhere and does not require my definitions to do so. The fundamental definition of tolerance is this — not that I only recognize the difference, but that I also accept the difference. And I would be happy if I could say about Slovenian society that it is able to accept differences in various ways. This is the way in the Family Code only under the legal rules governing different family relationships governing the situation between adults and children, and not least the responsibility of the State to the people. And here I think we're going to kneel at this exact test. The diversity I am talking about is linked to the same obligations and those we recognize as different have the same obligations towards the country, but we do not recognize that the country should have the same obligations to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, prepare Tadej Slapnik, Willy Trophynik, Dr. Luke Yuri. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u52	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Politics should always be based on values, this is what political science is learning after all, and today there is no doubt about values. We all agree with that. It is also a matter of constitutional rights, as the right to a referendum is also a constitutional right to exercise direct power. And the Constitution, so it teaches constitutional law, always has to be read as a whole. It is no coincidence that at the outset, the Constitution contains the right to direct exercise of the authority of the people, that is, the referendum, prior to the indirect exercise of power by dividing power into legislative, executive and judicial powers, is said to be the people over those who make laws on his behalf. That is why people must have the first and last words, but that is the foundation of democracy. I hope that this will take full account of the Constitutional Court when deciding on these rights. For the right to a referendum is the right of every citizen, every citizen, every voter, every voter. So it's a question of who to give priority to. That is why this is a sensitive, constitutional issue. And here begins the Calvary of your argument, because for several days now, partly through the media, some of you have done it today, you claim. All things that seem controversial to individuals, perhaps contrary to certain, you would like to say conservatively, would be more common to human values, allowing the present law, are already taken into account in the present law. If that's true, why do we need a new marriage, ladies and gentlemen? That's the first thing that your argument goes back to. What is even more interesting is that if your claims are held in this direction, then surely there can be no violation of any constitutional rights at any time. For all of this is already made possible by the legislation in force, with the proper interpretation and, of course, the proper conduct of all branches of government. Then this initiative of yours today, or demand that this law be judged by the Constitutional Court, is legally irrelevant. What's more, it proves you're just being stalled. Of course, it is more than that, you know very well that the problem of this law is that you have included in it a number of vague, questionable, problematic formulations, which, by the way, in itself is already unconstitutional, obviously unconstitutional. For the laws, according to constitutional law, should be written unequivocally, clearly and definitively. The stretching formulations you're interpreting today, you're different yesterday, God knows how tomorrow, they don't belong in any law, they don't have anything to look for there. And this is the first additional argument that the referendum should be that the referendum is also constitutionally justified. In order for the law to come into force at any time, the Constitutional Court should annul it, but this is certainly an additional reason why the Constitutional Court does not comply with your request. You refer to the Constitutional Court's decision, but you have already lied to yourself twice, because twice you have rejected the law amending the same-sex law, which in the opposition sought to resolve this problem, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. If you respected the Constitutional Court, as you claim all the time, then of course you would have voted for those laws and it would have been long ago, it would have been settled, people would have been given these rights, and you took them away for that period. Why? Because you wanted to save this as an excuse to justify and prevent a referendum on the whole law, in which, you know, with vaguely doubtful formulations, you wrote a lot of things that you obviously don't want to remember today. This is also why, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court, if it takes all these elements into account, will certainly allow the referendum to allow the electorate and the electorate to decide on this law. After all, two rulings back when another referendum, the Constitutional Court, if you have read that at all, made it very clear that it will no longer save the current coalition from its bad laws. The laws are the responsibility of those proposed and those who vote for them, which allows them to be adopted. The Constitutional Court, as you know, is here in a completely different role. It is not in the role of a life-saving plant for which the coalition is being hunted when it proposes constitutionally controversial, but certainly with the values of conflicting laws, as you have done in this case. This, of course, ends all of your constitutional argument in an infamous manner. You lied to yourself when you admitted that everything that was already in existing legislation was perfectly right to regulate things, in accordance with European standards, you lied to yourself when you said that we already had legislation that regulated all of this and therefore could not create a legal void at all or that anyone would have been violated constitutional rights and, in particular, the only point of dispute when it came to the Constitutional Court's decision, you put yourself twice on a lie when you rejected laws that you could have regulated it long ago, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, because you wanted to keep it for an excuse. And don't have the public and the constitutional judges for the lunatics. They are not stupid enough not to understand what your political game is like when you violate the fundamental values of the rule of law and the fundamental values on which the human community is founded. And in the end, you upgraded it with two claims that deserve an answer. The first was that it should be repeated in full: "We do not want to spend any more taxpayers' money." Yeah, well, then let's go to the early elections! If you follow this word, ladies and gentlemen of the SD, then of course today you will not vote on the new President of Parliament, you will not vote on the new ministers, but we will go together to the early elections that Slovenia so bloodyly needs to get the legitimate institutions of power that will actually be able to make the relevant changes and bring the new development circle to Slovenia. Plus, you said you didn't want to spend taxpayers' money. Today is a day when you have authority. Every day, your authority, ladies and gentlemen, owes us not only us, but also our children, for 10 million euros. Every month, your authority has us and our children in charge of a quarter of a billion euros. And every year, your authority, ladies and gentlemen, owes us all the next generations for three billion euros of money. It costs us so much what you do, I'm sorry. You said you didn't want to spend any more taxpayers' money, great. Let's go to the early elections! It was also said earlier that some are already on Mars, that some have lost contact with reality. The two claims were repeated twice. This may sometimes be an exaggerated claim, but if you think the Prime Minister still imagines that the captain of a blue ship is, because of the cost-effectiveness of the current coalition and its economic failure, only the captain of the red submarine, who in the left spirals are sinking to the bottom, then I agree with you. And for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, allow people to decide in their own conscience and in their own free will. Twice – first on this with fundamental human values clearly laid down and legally unclear, inadequately written law, and then to elect a new authority at the elections, which will enjoy appropriate high legitimacy and will be able to take Slovenia to a new development cycle. Who thinks stately? Whoever puts the common public interests ahead of his personal interests before his rounding up the chair will vote in favour of allowing a referendum and allowing for early elections. Whoever is a politician will, of course, prevent this from happening by all means. What it costs us, I have stated, every day, 10 million euros of new debt, every month a quarter of a billion new debt, every year your power is 3 billion euros of new debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I hope that someone will also explain the claims about the daily debt that are being repeated in this National Assembly that they will tell us what they are documented or perhaps objecting to. With regard to the elections, Mr Grims, I am very pleased that in the next 14 days, we can all, 90 Members and Members, decide whether we can be trusted or not, and that each of us, within our own party and in person, will be able to say whether or not we want decisions to be taken. Then we will see the picture and then you will be right or wrong, because what you now say is built on some assumption that may not be realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u54	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u55	Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. [[Not]] . Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[Not]] . Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. [[Not]] . Mr. Sylven Tiny. [[Not]] Mr. Ivan Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President! It's about the debt he used to talk about. Branko Grims, we can read for quite some time in the professional literature cited by bankers or those who are familiar with public finances, and of course this is very good for Slovenia to be in charge of EUR 10 million a day. But now we're going on the subject that we're dealing with today. Much more useful for Slovenia, for our people, for our economy, it would be for us today to consider some kind of law that would solve the plight of these people, and the hardship of these entrepreneurs is once again being discussed here, which is an extremely important topic, but that this subject should be judged by the Constitutional Court as unnecessary and can even be said to be harmful. Why are we burdening the Constitutional Court with such topics? The Constitutional Court already has a great deal of backlogs in itself, extremely important issues to resolve concerning the plight of our people, our businesses and more. Now, to re-evaluate the subject, instead of deciding on the subject among people. Why are you afraid that people will make decisions about this very important issue? You are again afraid that you will get confirmation that the many laws that have been passed in this mandate are bad, great stupidity. I am sure that the referendum would be the outcome of this, and I also believe that it will be one of the most convincing rejections. Why is that? Does anyone feel that our people are impatient?Oh, my God! Does anyone think our people are stupid?Oh, my God! That our people don't care about our children?Oh, my God! On the contrary! Our people are aware that the child is our greatest wealth, our greatest value, and the child is the one for whom we must do everything to enable him to develop normally. And not this law, Mr. Minister, when in your debates, you're also trying to explain through the media that this law protects children. That's not true. This law imposes on children who do not even know what this law can allow them to live in same-sex communities, and perhaps a number of these children will be ashamed of certain decisions that they were unable to comment on or decide on at the time, so that this law is extremely harmful to our children after that. I can tell you're in big trouble. You too, Mr Minister, now that we are looking at the statements you make at this referendum, it is not a campaign, but at the gathering of signatures, as you state in your statements that you are confident that such a referendum or campaign would violate the constitution, so that hate speech can be expected, the promotion of intolerance and so on. Where did you get that assumption? Animosity, intolerance is something that, of course, must not be tolerated, but it must be limited by education and other means, not by saying that a referendum campaign on such an important issue would generate intolerance among people. As I have already said, people are not impatient if they cannot understand, but even less allow as much as they can, so that our children can actually happen, I am talking about Slovenian children, something that is at odds with someone, not just a healthy mind, with all the natural laws. Here to say that traditional family, I will rather use the term 'natural family' We can also call family to a society, to anyone, but that family that exists or that guarantees the existence of a nation that allows the production of our craftsmen is the only natural option or path that we can preserve our race or even our existence. [[...]] As I have said, I firmly believe that you have probably already received a hint when this law was formed, I hope that this suggestion was wrong, that the Constitutional Court will define itself on this issue by prohibiting it. Because otherwise, I cannot explain to myself the fact that, despite the warnings of both civil initiatives and our opposition Members of the opposition about those unacceptable, socially and politically unacceptable ones, you insisted on this because you knew in advance that a referendum initiative would certainly take place. But with his head through the wall, probably in the conviction, "yeah, of course we'll do it and then the Constitutional Court will stop this case so that it can't be decided otherwise." Earlier, a colleague from SD said that they were the ones who made the compromise, and we are not. What's a compromise for you? By insisting on solutions that are unacceptable? It's not a compromise. And people, if a referendum is to take place, which I believe strongly, this law will be rejected not because of the good solutions that this law has, we cannot say that this law is completely bad, but that it will be rejected primarily because of two or three articles. And as for these three or two articles, you've been uncompromising, you haven't even given in to a dart, and that's what's bad. And now to say that in Slovenia we fear that people are afraid of people who are different. That's not true. People in Slovenia, Slovenians are very, very tolerant and do not fear the different, same-sex communities, are probably those who have any prejudice or reservations, are rare, before we will find a different view between these same-sex communities or couples of any other, more xenophobia, more intolerance, more anxiety than among others; but not equal or under this cover to give fear of people or opposition, not fear, opposition to people, that by means of such a law something can happen to our children, which is unnatural and also unacceptable. I will not support this decision alone, it is not necessary and it would be much more useful today to reject this decision in order to collect signatures in the coming week, I am sure, because, as I am aware, they already have signatures in the last day alone over 10 000, but that this matter is cleared up and that it will then continue with those changes in the law that will implement the constitutional provisions, where there have been some systemic errors that need to be resolved in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u58	Thank you very much. This time, I would only respond because Mr Grill is directly asking me, or having a problem with my views. First of all, this. Children already live in same-sex partnerships, and no one forces them into this community. As a country, we are responsible for ensuring these children the same rights as all other children. They don't have those same rights right now. Another time. What makes you think the campaign could promote intolerance? On your part, the debaters from your party, Mr Grill, spoke in this distinguished assembly about the fact that the same-sex moderate people are sick, that they should be given somewhere for treatment and so on. They don't admit that this is the natural state of things, which is a lot of talk. And if we looked at the magnetograms of these debates and looked at the home page of Mr Primac, we would find a lot of what is easily qualified as hate speech and these are not conjectures. However, if we looked at the police reports on perceived intolerance, we would get further arguments that, if necessary, we would also submit to the Constitutional Court. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u60	Your Honor, hello! Today we are again reviewing the content of the Family Code as many times and I must say that we have even adopted it twice in the National Assembly and we are talking about the modern Family Code, which has 309 articles, implementing certain decisions of the Constitutional Court, new regulation of a series of procedures relating to the rights of children, and so on. I am concerned when on the street it interferes with human rights when some people want to restrict rights that solve, say, the problem of same-sex partnerships, although these rights of same-sex partnerships are in no way prejudice to my rights, my rights, because I live in a traditional family and this is important. And that's not what people who sign are aware of. Also public statements by the signatories, say yesterday at Odessa, when said the lady who deals with singing: "I don't know the code, but I don't like it!" and give your signature. And there are hundreds of them, thousands of them who don't know the matter, but have received the right propaganda and are now giving their signature for the referendum. Yes, it's true: family is a community of parents and children. What about imperfect families, where we give single mothers, singles for our own fault, or not for our own fault? Are there too many children in our society in such families or are they not even a family? Or when it comes to family problems, I, as a teacher, had a lot of situations when it came to extremely aggressive fathers, alcoholism, constant contention, and when marriage breaks up, then it's no longer a family, but it's the right solution for that child to sleep at night and learn during the day. Where are we gonna put these families, some new marriage or some new ghetto or whatever? I am concerned that there are more and more cases of intolerance in Europe as well. Before that, my colleague said that Slovenians are tolerant of where the hell we are, we are not tolerant. Take a look in Hungary at what's going on with the Roma, not to list other cases across Europe, which is reflected to us. At least in Goriška we joked years ago that in Italy it is in the power of 'berlusconism', but now we have it here, so it doesn't depend on the media and I don't know where. We have this here in our country, I'm sorry. I don't want to live in a country like this. I don't think we're far from the proposal when someone remembers and tells us to go to a referendum to vote that those who aren't church married, that marriage is not valid, that things go so far, of course! Tomorrow someone can remember that and collect the signatures, no problem, because the lady will say, "I don't like it if he's not in the church!" And she'll sign. It's my fear, not for me, I have children, I have grandchildren, and where we go, it's hard to imagine, not just in this area, but somewhere else. Today it is literally juggling children's rights on the stands, and that is not acceptable. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr Grims, you are the expert on such juggling, so I say because we cannot create dialogue anymore, as if there is a glass barrier here, and we do not hear each other and therefore I say that the Constitutional Court should decide what is right and what is wrong, and therefore I support the proposal of today's conclusion that someone will be an arbitrator and will say how and what and then, if it is not as I reckon it will be, I can only say: God help this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word to prepare Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I will begin with Article 309 of the Family Code, which is already in the transitional provisions, which states: 'this Code shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and shall apply one year after its entry into force'. So far, we have not been paying attention to how skillfully you maneuver, so we will be living in an unconstitutional state for another year. If this were so contrary to the Constitution, then you would suggest the urgent application and application of the law, i.e. duality squared! Ladies and gentlemen, my foreword said that people are signing a request for a referendum because they are getting real propaganda. If Slovenians made a decision on the basis of the propaganda you have 95% in hand, then they would massily claim that the values of the Slovenes are old-school, discarded and that they are giving up their own values and values of their families and parents. This project of adoption of children by the same-sex community was a project of breaking the value spine of Slovenes, designed as an important ideological project, which in the past has always been carried out with pleasure and serious consequences by Slovenian communists, and they have felt roots. In the past, they have often broken their visual and valuable spines primarily to teachers, judges, and other civil servants. It was so far away that some of these were afraid to attend a church ceremony at the death of their relatives, so far away. And now to claim that the Slovenians are making a completely wrong decision when 95% are convinced that the same-sex communities with the law that was passed are interesting under our government, and earlier, the liberal government has not been able for 12 years to do so, in some ways, to be sufficiently resolved and that what is ordered by the Constitutional Court needs to be improved. So, ladies and gentlemen, don't humiliate the Slovenians again. The Slovenians understood your humiliation and rejection of their value, and I am confident that they will go on Monday morning mass signing this request. They must reject you with this. The Slovenians are patient and do not claim to be impatient. But they have this right, the constitutional right to a referendum that they would like to take away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Get Jacob the Presbyterian ready. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u64	Mr Jerovšek, we would not like to take the constitutional right to a referendum, but we would like to check whether, in this case, a referendum is also a tool for something else, to block a law that brings about an up-to-date understanding of the family, not only in the field of values that you are talking about in the National Assembly in the past more than 80 hours, and which offers the possibility that these hours will continue on the street, as has been said. The Constitutional Court will decide on compliance with the Constitution. I hope that, not in the way that it was sent from at least one working body, from the meeting of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and the disabled, recently when the Member has instructed the Constitutional Court not to read what the application for constitutionality of this referendum says, but about everything that does not. And we are on values, we are on a question that splits and divides and that brings many double morals, hypocrisy and intolerance. Here I agree that the intolerance that is strongly present in our society and also on the world scales is duplicating. This dual morality, which is known, is well known in Slovenia, especially in two thousand years of civilisation doctrine, this dual morality in some way interprets forgiveness, the possibility of tolerance, also same-sex, but always adds some 'ampak' which on the other hand strongly condemns. This is the most classic example of this, and you can also find it in painting that refers to the Bible and the New Testament, in which the evangelist became generally accepted by the evangelist in Christian interpretations. Like the one who understood the act of unfailing conception as good, not the one after whom Joseph dismissed Mary after she had told him. Of course, there is no such interpretation, for rejection was not desirable. However, the degradation of the family in the way it is interpreted through this law is unacceptable, and I absolutely agree with today's repeated thesis that this blockade with these arguments of this law is based on the desire to cover up some of the other problems that are coming and are particularly present within the Roman Catholic Church, which, of course, is in some way diverting attention from the problems it has and based on double morality, is not stealing, not lying, but this has been proved recently. And these double criteria, which are inherent all too often in such a determined society, would also be interpreted by such interpretation, when we listen to it both by civil initiative and by the parties who support it civilly, as by the largest civil society organisation in Slovenia, are questionable here. Let me remind you that the Yugoslav Constitution had, in its messages and in its forms, arrangements that were breathtaking to all or many other countries. The Yugoslav Constitution has brought, as the most liberal values, the possibility of recognition of the marriage and the rights deriving from it, even when it was not a marriage, but an extra-marital community, and has also provided the possibility of termination of pregnancy. Yugoslavia was one of the most liberal countries, followed by other countries, with these steps it has taken within the Constitution. This norm, which was not questionable at the time or blocked by anyone, even more, supported by the majority, was taken over. Now something completely different is happening that the Slovenian country, which wants to be liberal, wants to take account of the same rights that want equality and sociality to establish, will be one of those countries that will be the last to make changes that are already widely accepted in the world, even in countries that are very Catholically oriented. There is no doubt that the examination in the Constitutional Court is reasonable and necessary, but it is true that it is desirable that it be interpreted in the way it is written, so to speak, that it would eliminate the differences.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would like to say that Mr Jakob the President has the floor. Members of the SDS no longer have time to discuss. If there is a procedural proposal, I'll take your word for it, Mr. Ziherl. What will you suggest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u66	Mr. Vice President. In today’s debates, the Catholic Church has been explicitly highlighted several times. As far as I know, the Family Code has declared all four of the most widespread religions in Slovenia, i.e. Protestants as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u67	Your suggestion, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u68	to remind you that when someone exposes only the Catholic Church, because the same opinion on this code are the Islamic community, Protestants, Orthodoxs and Catholics. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u69	Thank you very much. There have been many things said today that are far from the truth, and if I were to warn everyone, we would not have a chance of discussion. Once again, Members and Members of the SDS have no more time to discuss. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare Mr Aloise Posedel. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I have already pointed out in the opinion of the Group that, given that we are today considering the proposal for a decision and not the Family Code, we have already begun to consider it two years ago and has been discussed at many meetings of the Committee and also at meetings of the National Assembly. This proposal for a decision or a judgment before the Constitutional Court is, of course, a legitimate initiative of the Members of the National Assembly, and it is not in principle dispute. We respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We believe that this is the way it should be done. After all, it is the highest constitutional guardian in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I have a feeling that in this case, in the case of this decision, it is for some manoeuvre to create confusion in the public with regard to the disputed provisions contained in the Family Code. That's the problem. We have always stressed, even I at the meeting, including the committee meeting, how many times do I not know that the Family Code positively solves many issues, many areas. All these areas need to be addressed. Many, or all, of the services that are touched, all individuals who are touched by the Family Code or the solutions in the Code can hardly wait for this Family Code to be established. Unfortunately, however, he is solving some things in an unacceptable way. I also associate myself with those who regret that in our system it is not possible to change or give only some solutions to the referendum or, on the other hand, that the State Council cannot veto only certain solutions in the individual law, but always in the entire law. But that's the arrangement we have. From these contradictions of ours and mine, I would reiterate two points. Once it comes to children's rights, these most sensitive categories of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, over the rights of individual groups. Whether these groups are in the majority or in the minority, whatever. Another such disputed solution, which is even more important and needs to be focused on it, is the definition of a family. Around this definition of family in the first articles of this code we have always debated and since the first day we have not even saved a millimeter in order to improve this definition in any way. Those are the main reasons. Unfortunately, there are very few in this code that need to be corrected, but there was no willingness for some things to be resolved differently and elsewhere, and that long ago, a year and a half ago, the Family Code without these controversial provisions would be brought through parliamentary procedure without any desire for vetoes and referendums and so on. For all that is said and for what is the real purpose of this constitutional judgment, I will vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Posedel. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Victory Jelinčič. [[No, no, ……]] Aloysius Potočnik. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Sarah Wheeler. [[No, no, ……]] Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak with Dr. Andrej Črnak? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Minister Ivan Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I would only stop in this debate on a few key issues. First of all, you refer to Article 53 of the Constitution, which states that the State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. When he says, with the constitution, the state protects the family, leaves the family indefinable, open to various forms of common life. What has emerged from this debate is that you are imposing one definition of family as understood by the Catholic Church in particular by us. And with this definition of family you want to reinterpret Article 53 of the Constitution and thus also cause what is contrary to other articles of the Constitution, in particular the article of the Constitution which prohibits distinction and discrimination on different grounds. That there will be no misunderstanding, what an important distinction there is, even quantitatively, in these forms of family, which somehow you want to put into a different plan, as unequal, today lives 45% of Slovenian children. And when we want all families and all children to have the same rights with the Family Code, then we stand for these 45% of Slovenian children who live in such families. Without the solutions we offered, that would not be possible. Now that the talk that the Constitution also requires the creation of conditions and the protection of these families, let me say that the State of Slovenia will distribute more than 800 million euros in 2011 to fathers, mothers and children, as this is often used as a syntagma, with the aim of strengthening the family and the development of children in these families. These funds will be distributed irrespective of nationality, language, religion, political or other belief, social origin, education or social status, which requires and requires Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution. However, it will not be able to take fully into account in these criteria what is still stated in Article 14 that other rights must be shared and shared, not just those, regardless of personal circumstances. And this is where we get to the same-sex ones, where we can figure out that they're in an unequal position. In some cases, deprived with significantly less rights, and in some cases we can even say privileged, but this means that not all citizens, regardless of sexual orientation in the same situation, are constitutional requirements. Such a denial is, for example, that another parent in such a family does not have the right to a father’s leave. Of course, such a community is also treated as a single parent community with a child and enjoys greater rights than they would otherwise. And I think it should be noted in particular that it is constitutionally unacceptable for people to distinguish in this or in that sense on the basis of personal orientation. And that's what the Constitutional Court can't overlook. In short, to operate here with the definition of a family that does not know the constitution, to close this open definition, which is summarised in the law, and to implicitly then – and this debate at the time of the adoption of the Code has clearly shown – to try to hierarchy or to evaluate different forms of the family community and thus, of course, to create an unequal position on the basis of the free choice that people have, in order for one or another family community to decide. And I think that this is a key issue that we are also putting on the Constitutional Review Initiative. This, of course, also leads to the assertion that no one is opposed to the same-sex community, but on a general level, when we reach a concrete level, that acquisition no longer achieves its approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u73	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? Please sign up for the debate. Three panellists have been reported, each one will have 5 minutes to discuss. The first one has the word, Mr. France Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Well, I understand the situation, but it's just that we don't listen to each other and we don't understand each other. Neither do I from the Members of the other political option, nor do I blame or expect, so it happens, one side or the other, here we are, in fact, all the 'glies', each one speaking his own language and listening a little bit. However, that the Minister so misleadingly interprets the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which I initially gave, I did not like and did not expect such a reply from the Minister. First of all, let us adhere to the definitions of the Catholic family, whether I don't know what it is or not, and we don't recognize the constitutional definition or the Constitution, when the family raises it into the constitutional category. First of all, I must say that we, as the best approximation or realization of the definition we understand in the constitution or in the law in force, which was in force at the time, and by which the family was understood at that time as understood by us today, have said that the current statistical definition is the most appropriate, in fact to the lower level, to carry out the realization of this definition, which is meant in the Constitution or in the current Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and that is, the statistical definition includes in the concept of a family of all the marriage and extramarital living communities of men and women who have children or who do not yet have children and so-called single parent families. And these families, according to statistics, are 576 thousand in Slovenia and 99.99% of children are in these families, not 45%, as the minister said. We excluded from this concept, as well as when the Constitution was written, it was never meant to be a family for the same-sex partnership community, because it does not have that essential element for the reproduction of the nation for birth and as the best environment for the birth and upbringing of children. Then the minister said that in fact we do not allow the correction that children in same-sex partnerships are discriminated against. We reiterate that we have not found this discrimination anywhere, that they have a father or a mother everywhere and are therefore positively discriminated against because they have greater benefits. But the minister said he couldn't take the same-sex partner for a father's leave for that child. Mr Minister, you are well aware that adoption of a biological child by the same-sex partner is possible today and that this is already happening. And then all father's rights are also shared by the same-sex partner. There is no such thing that the definition of family and marriage should be changed so dramatically and I would ask the Minister to forget, if he did not hear what we were saying, to listen for the second time or at least read a little bit of a magnetogram and then interpret the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I gave at the beginning of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u75	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Gregor Golobich is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u76	I didn't intend to discuss today, so I quit at the beginning, I didn't participate in the consideration of this law in the National Assembly, because I wasn't a member of it, but today there was a talk about things that had to do with this law that had nothing to do with this law, which had nothing to do with what the National Assembly was supposed to do and otherwise didn't come to this house, so I finally decided to say a few words. Here there was much constitutional teaching to be heard today, and of course there was a repetition of some wisdom that is often heard in this congregation and elsewhere, and this wisdom hears in the name that most are always right and that the meaning of democracy is in this. And that most of these, especially when we talk about the people, do not sanction anything. This claim is unendurable, most not only is it not always right, most often is wrong and the people are not above all, above all is the Constitution. And the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia did not accept the people that there would be a misunderstanding. I am sure that if we put it to the referendum, that there would be a lot of problems for the candidates of this referendum, that the people would convince them that this constitution is exactly as it is today, and that we know that many of us are unhappy in this house, too, have been accepted. For a reason this happened, there was talk of independence, of plebiscite, of its meaning, but what constituted this country, of independence and of plebiscite was an important contribution to this, it was the adoption of a democratic constitution. And fortunately, this constitution contains quite a few safeguards that make it impossible for most of them, at least in some areas and in this area they also have human rights to exercise their right. It is no coincidence that if 40 000 citizens may request a referendum on any law adopted by the National Assembly, they may not be able to do so on a constitutional amendment. It's probably written in the Constitution for a reason. By suggesting that we do not deceive ourselves and that we do not create the impression that we do not live in a constitutional democracy. Also, those who are disturbed by the alleged unclear formulations in this law have not heard much about them, but will always differ on certain valuable issues and will not be resolved by any law, should be referred to the Constitutional Court, whether such possible ambiguity is constitutionally disputed and admissible or not, but not to the referendum. For, as mentioned earlier, the referendum on the Constitution would have very little option for this lack of clarity unless we consider the Constitution to be understandable to all in a uniform manner. I would also like to add a word about a winged one that was launched a few months ago — very well heard — that Slovenia is supposed to have 2 million shades, different shades. Today we've seen that one color, I don't know if it's pink or what, isn't in those shades, but I don't care about this color in this context. What was to be asked today in this regard is the question that has been asked, what shades of children are alive, already born, that there will be no misunderstanding, by a notable natural path, that they would not be very present here, that they should not live in the community of their parents, their parents and their partners, or their partner under the same conditions and with the same rights as other children. And both of you, at best, will both be grateful for your mother and your father, because these kids have both. It seems that the dominance of shades of the same color, whether it is a yellow one party, or whether it is a yellow one-year-old institution, has in any case over-coloured this debate and it would be good if we thought about what happened to those children who had so many words exchanged.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u77	I'm closing the debate. As no amendment was adopted by the working body to the proposal for a decision, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting. The decision on the draft decision will be made within half an hour following the end of the second item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Sayovic, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. If, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I can propose that we vote that item 5 of the agenda of today's meeting be held before item 2 of the agenda, we will, in substance, speed up the process of approving the mandate of the new Member following the resignation of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u79	The Magnificent Messenger. Borut Sajovic proposed that item 5 of the agenda be suspended by Aleš Zalar, Minister of the Interior instead of Katarina Kresal, who resigned as Minister of the Interior. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, consideration would be given before the opening of the second paragraph. That's what we have to decide. However, before making your decision, I would, of course, warn you that the proposal will be adopted if one third of the Members present do not oppose it. We will come to the decision to move agenda item 5 ahead of agenda item 2. Understand? We're voting. The vote is under way. I made a mistake. The vote is under way. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm glad you're in a good mood. He likes to go to third. We're voting. There were 77 votes in favour and 54 in favour against 23. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, it was announced to the Prime Minister that the function of the Minister for Internal Affairs instead of Katherine Kresal, who resigned from the function of the Minister for Internal Affairs, would be handled by Alesh Zalar, Minister of Justice. On 29 August 2011, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, informed the National Assembly that Aleš Zalar, Minister of the Interior instead of Katarina Kresal, who resigned from his post, would temporarily serve as Minister of Justice. You have received a notice from the Prime Minister. In view of this, the National Assembly notes, for the first time, that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of the Katarina Kresal, by terminating the current affairs of the Minister of the Interior as of today, it is the second time that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members as of today, it has ceased to serve as Member of the Minister Anton Anderlič, who served as Deputy Minister instead of Katarina Kresal at the time that he served as Minister. With this, I thank Mr Anton Anderlich for his work in the National Assembly. However, since Katarina Kresal has today made a written declaration to resign from the functions of a Member of the National Assembly, she shall, in accordance with Article 202(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 9(2) of the Law on Members, terminate her term of office. 9. 2011. On this basis, I will ask the State Election Commission to inform the National Assembly, which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of Member Catherine Kresal, who will terminate her term of office. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandate of the Member for the remainder of the term of office. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the wine law after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u80	Well-welcome, distinguished Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the four members of the National Assembly, to present the reasons for the proposal and the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Wine Act as the second and second Mr Vizjak, the third Matjaž Han and the fourth Mr Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the four members of the National Assembly. The Wine Act, adopted in 2006, regulates the grape market in very detail, with wine and in its Article 13, very clearly, that grapes may be grown into wine by the producer or producer of the grapes and by the natural person as a farmer, depending on the quantity planted and registered in the register, or by the person declared as a sole entrepreneur, or by the economic company, cooperative or s.p. Or d.o.o. Elementary accidents are becoming more and more common today, even this year, and in view of the damage that happened this year in the Bisell area, as well as in the Bistrica area near Sotla area, something similar happened in Brda, also in Gorički last year, among grape growers, municipalities from this area and the delegation of the Ministry, there was also a debate that those farmers who are processing their grapes into wine and that wine are then sold to different customers, guests or similar, or those who have long-term effects on the economy of individual farms, as a result of the loss of grapes, have lost the opportunity to process this grapes, resulting in the loss of markets and revenues of the current year, resulting in long-term consequences for the economy of individual farms. This is why we joined the Ministry in a joint and coordinated manner in amending the Wine Act. We have found and also suggested that such a procedure should be as rapid as possible if we really want to help those affected by the storm this year. That is why we have decided to shorten the procedure, and we have also obtained 59 signatures to deal with this item at an extraordinary meeting today. I also thank the College of the President of the National Assembly for its understanding that it has adopted such an accelerated procedure. The basic solutions to this law go in the direction that that grape grower who was affected by at least 60% of the three-year average recorded in the register of grape and wine growers may, in the year that the elementary accident occurred, collect as many grapes as the recognised crop drop due to the elementary accident. This grapes may only be bought within this wine-growing environment in which the damage occurred. In the register of grape growers and wines, this purchase must also be registered. This purchase may take place at a time when the municipal and state commissions, which is also recognised in this percentage within the scope of the activities of the Slovenian Administration for Protection and Rescue. Initially, it was the idea to adopt a framework law and to draw up a sub-legislative act by the Ministry. In the light of the comments made by the Law-Legal Service, the Wine Society of Slovenia and also the concerns that Members would not adopt the law and not know what the solutions to this law will be in the law, there was a decision to supplement this article of the law to the extent that all the key solutions that I had previously listed were recorded in the law and not in the law. That is why yesterday, with the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and with the representatives of the vineyards, we recast the amendments, then adopted them on the committee itself, and then put them in writing the bill. Yesterday and today, the Legislative and Legal Service has found that Article 2a is also of such a nature that it regulates material regulations, so today, on their proposal, we also propose to supplement Article 1 with Article 2a and Article 2a with a withdrawal. Thus, as proponents, we agree that the whole content set is included in Article 1 and that this is how the law is adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. You want another word as chairman of the committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Greetings also to the director of the Directorate and to the secretary of state who are among us. As we have already said, at the 24th urgent meeting yesterday, the mother working body of the Wine Law proposal was examined following a reduced procedure already mentioned and was discussed by the College at its 112th meeting. 8. 2011 certificates. As I have already said, the signatures were collected and yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee, we were also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, which agrees with the content of this Act. Representatives of the Slovenian Society made a proposal for amendments, which ultimately corresponded to the warnings given by the Legal and Legislative Service. There is an introductory explanation of the mags at the board meeting. He reiterated his support for such a solution as had been proposed, also supported that the whole matter should be regulated by law in the light of the comments we had received, and that the law also received the support of the representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and also the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. During the debate itself, there were also certain concerns that this law would not open the side door for a grey economy in the field of grape and wine markets, as well as concerns about tax regulations, but together we have explained in detail both the proposals and the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I also think that we have resolved the concerns expressed. Finally, the proposal for this law was unanimously adopted by the Committee, as well as earlier amendments which I mentioned earlier and are today included in the Committee's full report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce the opinion. Ma'am mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u84	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The government has considered a proposal for amendments to the Wine Act proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. As has already been seen in the report of yesterday's Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the government agrees with the opinion of Members that the current regulation in the Wine Act, which makes it impossible for individuals, namely those who process wine as farmers as natural persons, to prevent them from producing wine from other grapes than from their own crops, which is very uncomfortable in the event of weather conditions when this crop is smaller. We therefore agree with the amendment to the law, which provides that, under certain restrictions or conditions, it is possible to collect this crop in order to preserve the market. The government therefore supports changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to the secretary and the director of the directorate! In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the proposal for a new law, because after yesterday's good debate on the committee, our concerns, which have gone in the direction of protecting the wine market and Slovenia's reputation as important and wanted wine exporters, have received more concrete answers and clarifications. I hope that those on the ground will also pay attention to the fact that there is no abuse or anything to be done on the Slovenian wine market, but above all to the quality of the light, we support the measure to ensure that in future affected vineyards, natural persons who are not independent entrepreneurs, individuals, if their own income from the natural disaster is at least 60% lower than the three-year average, to help those with the right goal and purpose of preserving the market and their market share. However, we have had our doubts about what the proposed measure means in the event that the natural person’s own crop is significantly reduced due to natural disasters, if, of course, it is the only possible measure and also the best. We also had concerns that the proposed measure or exception fully follows the principle of tax fairness and the principle of horizontal tax equivalence. At the same time, we doubt that the proposed exemption will help to improve the quality of these wines, which we would like, in particular, to achieve higher prices and greater visibility of Slovenian wines both in Slovenia – in this case local – the market as well as in the saturated foreign wine markets. We want as much insurance as possible in this country, damage and natural disasters as possible, and we will support that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u87	Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to the Ministry. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act by a majority. Despite some of the concerns that have also arisen in the debate on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we are confident that this is a very good case of a rapid response to this year's natural disasters and that this will help those affected by these natural disasters. This is strengthened by the fact that we know the saying that someone is quick, twice as fast. In doing so, however, it is important to be careful that one does not get more than he owns. However, these amendments adopted at the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food itself have also been arranged in such a way as to ensure that the damage and consequences of natural disasters are assessed in a manner and by regulations governing this area, so that everyone can obtain only in cases where at least 60 % of the crop destroyed is recorded in the register and that the grapes that can be purchased will be exclusively from the same wine-growing environment. We are convinced that there is no possibility of abuse here and that this change of law is intended to help really quickly those affected by natural disasters and these climate change. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we also see the urgency and warning to the Ministry that the way in which agricultural crops are insured needs to be changed. It is obvious that this system, which is valid, will survive and will need to find new and better cases; as we know, the ministry is already working on it. However, we also want all vineyards to need these measures as little as possible from this amendment of the law and, above all, we wish them a good harvest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u89	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Ravnik, colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats' Group, we support the amendment of the law, but we have also signed a request for a hearing at an extraordinary meeting. And I'm a cosigner of the law myself. The destructive storm with the hailstorm that occurred during the summer months, especially at the work of Kozjanski, Obstetrics and Posavje, and according to what has been seen, this storm can also come into the future. I believe that this novel will also be effective in the future, and it will not just be ringing the bell. We are confident that rapid assistance is two-time aid and that by means of a measure allowing the purchase of grapes to those farmers who are engaged in wine growing and who have lost their crops, but are not legal persons or independent entrepreneurs, we can help to preserve their markets and this will help to ensure their income and, finally, their survival. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are also aware that the exception that we make with the proposal for a new law can cause serious distortions in the grape market, so we have also supported the amendment on the Committee, which stipulates that grapes must be produced in the wine-growing environment of the damaged farmer. Such a complement has also finally convinced us, particularly the Social Democrats, that the measure is fair and just. That is why we will also support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u91	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! Members of Parliament have listened to the interests and problems of people on the ground, especially when it comes to accidents that maim crops and cause great economic damage. Perhaps this great economic damage is not "great" in the light of the whole of Slovenia, but it is great in the light of every individual affected by it, especially if it is as destructive as it was in Bizeljska and in the wider area of the Court, when 100 % of all the crops were harvested and caused him years of damage because he still does not know how to deal with the vines or whether they will recover at all after such a tide as has happened. First, I would point out that it is important that, in these difficult moments, we have listened particularly to the vineyards from Bizellski, who, at their joint meetings with the Minister, expressed this proposal, which was then summarised and proposed to the Ministry by the Municipality of Brežica and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, has responded and prepared the first draft of this law. Here I think that the ministry has played an important role, especially Minister Židan, who has proposed to the Members that we should bring this law to the Members themselves, so that it will be a quicker procedure and indeed, look, it has happened procedurally, I would say, a record, because the law was introduced on Tuesday, today is Friday and the law will probably be adopted less than in a week, which is extremely fast for the procedure in force in Parliament. I must say that such a procedure is possible only when there is a unanimous desire to support the affected and when we deal with such removals of the consequences of storms or natural disasters, and I think there is no room and a place to interfere with any political and procedural tricks in some way. Especially important is such a rapid procedure this year, when the extremely early harvest, namely, the harvest has already started a lot, the purchase of grapes is necessary, even for early varieties, and the law will enter into force the next day after the publication of the Official Journal, which means that next week is likely to be a little late for some varieties. However, the solution is here, the solution means that those affected by the vineyards that lost all this year’s harvest will be able to collect the grapes that were taken from them by the hailstone. These vineyards have suffered, and I hope that the purchase under this law will also be possible next year for the same vineyard, because these vineyards, which are next year by the harvest, will be due to the current, which was in August, even next year, because these vineyards will never be born again, or full, but certainly not next year. Of course, this solution is above 60% the right one, which means that the remaining 40% of the crop cannot be survived. I would open another dilemma here for the ministry, which I believe was born in the event of this accident and the fisting of wine growing. We have decided in Slovenia to protect individual crop areas with wine-growing environments and rules that apply there. This makes Slovenia a small and more fragmented crop and makes it even more difficult for strong vine growers to perform on the international market. I think that, because of this fragmentation and the ban on traffic in grapes and the like between regions, there is a similar burden on some economic activity in the field of wine-growing just as much as it cares about some traditional origin of certain areas. So it is necessary to consider whether these solutions are for the benefit of wine-growing and the development of wine-growing, or even possibly for the development of chocolate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u93	Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. [[He's not here.]] Mr Bogovic, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u94	We are in the Slovenian People's Party, together with the other Members, co-proposals, and, of course, we support such a proposal for a law. We are also pleased with this support and the good will of the College of the President of the National Assembly, and therefore of all the parliamentary groups, to solve this problem very quickly and that, as has already been said, the law will enter into force next week and we will solve the problems of this year. It must be said that it will be clear to all that this regime applies to the future, is applicable to the whole Republic of Slovenia, and I think that we have managed to solve one part of the problem that arises in the face of elementary disasters effectively and at the right time, and we hope that there will be a number of such solutions in the future, as the fundamental disasters that are our increasingly frequent escorts reveal the shortcomings that are emerging in this area. Thus, one of these deficiencies, which relates to grapes, is this deficiency so that the grape grower can only protect the harvest of that year. We are now putting an end to this by allowing him to work in the cellar, by winemaking, by processing grapes and by marketing he keeps the market, he does not lose out on the long run those needed buyers and we do at least this activity. However, it seems that we still have no solution to the decline of crops in the coming year, for this will be inevitable. Given the traps on the unregulated wine market and on the grape market, we did not hope to replace this crop deficit in the year of the fall. Therefore, the law provides that in that year, when you lose 60% of your crop or more, you can collect the lost crop and the next year this law no longer saves. The problem of insurance in agriculture has also become apparent, with the budget rebalancing we will see that this item, which was planned at the level of 13 million, has been realised slightly less than half and the reason is that some insurance companies no longer offer an insurance product for agricultural crops and, on the other hand, individual insurance products are so expensive that farmers no longer decide on them. And in this case, I think we need to think about new solutions, one of them is active protection with cross-sectional networks, and the other solutions are in the direction of the insurance undertaking or the other. So in these cases, I think that in the Wine Act we have managed to resolve what is being done in this law, while there is still a whole range of solutions to be settled in the National Assembly. For the September floods of last year do not yet have a response to undoing the damage, in recognition of these consequences. It appears that there is a lack of regulation in dealing with the consequences of elementary accidents. I hope and believe that the law will be passed and that we will allow these vineyard growers to buy grapes in a legal way within a particular wine-growing environment in the coming week. Surely, however, this law does not open the side door to any gray market that is sometimes present in this area, and if it is present, inspectors already have all the regulation in their hands so that they can erase it, and by this law we certainly want only to do so, so that those who wish to act within the framework of the law can do so. It is said that they have the legal basis for buying out grapes by buying in the wine-growing environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u95	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state, director of the Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, is a good greeting! Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the second time in this mandate, we are faced with a proposal for a new law in force on wine, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a more specific competent ministry, has also supported, one and the other. Even in this case, the public debate was not carried out, the profession, interestingly, it was not heard and the local communities did not have the opportunity or sufficient time to give their opinion, but this consideration differs from the consideration of the previous proposal of the law, mainly in that this time the lobbies trading in grapes and wine are silent, as this bill will also benefit them, i.e. those who are only processors and not producers of wine. As was evident from the working body, the government remained in principle as it remained in the same position as it did in the written opinion. Apparently, this time the Ministry was not intimidated by strong financial lobbyists, as was the previous attempt to enact the existing law. In our Group of Members, we understand the intention of the proposalers to assist some 200 farms affected by storms with the greatest impact with this bill. As the applicant points out, this arrangement should allow individuals, i.e. natural persons, who deal with wine growing as farmers, to produce wine also from purchased grapes grown in the same wine environment. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group, because we believe that the rapid adoption of the bill will provide quick and effective assistance. However, we wonder whether it would not be better and more meaningful to help the victims with the contributions made by the State. We are also wondering whether the harvesting of grapes could increase their market value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! With the proposed amendments and amendments to the Wine Act, it is in fact a matter of assisting those individuals who have recently suffered the consequences of the recent occurrence of natural disasters, as well as severe adverse weather conditions, which have a negative impact on their processing of grapes, musts, wine and other products and is their own crop. However, they are not legal persons or independent entrepreneurs. However, due to the legal restrictions in force, they may be deprived of their stable income and, last but not least, of maintaining the market for their activities. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this legal measure is appropriate to be adopted in accordance with the urgency procedure. Unfortunately, it could have been earlier because market-oriented winemakers really need such a measure or a change to the existing law. It is only the legalisation of the buying-in of grapes, not wine and, as agreed on yesterday on the working body, that it is exclusively the purchases of grapes, which must be produced only in the wine-growing environment of the damaged grape grower. Otherwise, the topic on the working body has been fully processed, and the agreement on the proposal has been adopted unanimously, as we have received Members of Parliament with a reasoned explanation concerning all the concerns that I will not now list again. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we propose to adopt a proposal for amendments and to supplement the law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 9. In 2011, the two amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1 and 2a are Articles 1. Since both amendments are substantively linked, we will discuss them at the same time. Anybody want a word? I find that no, and this concludes the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 15.15. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue our 45th extraordinary session by vote at 15.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u100	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with paragraph 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the request of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court decide whether, by deferring or rejecting the application of the Family Code at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. On behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote. Anyone but Mr. Grimes? No, no, no. Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u101	Your Honor! We will not support the demands for constitutional review in the SDS Group. The reason for this is that several times you have put yourself on the line. Indeed, the law obviously cannot create any legal void or violate human rights, as you yourself have said that the current legislation allows for cases of dispute to be settled in terms of values under the existing law. In case of doubt, you added a chronic argument to the law yourself, the law shall apply at 15 days' notice only in a year's time. That's what you're saying. You obviously know that there can't be a problem in this year. How long does the delay that might arise due to the call for a referendum really last? Also for a year. Which, of course, says that it is only a manoeuvre that wishes to delay a decision that entails an additional burden on the Constitutional Court. You yourself referred to the decision of the Constitutional Court in this case, which regulates successions or certain material matters relating to the same-sex partnership community, but you have twice rejected the bill which we have already proposed in Parliament, which you yourself acknowledged as a manoeuvre in which you wanted to save this as an argument for the current, poorly written and legally unclear law and, on the other hand, that it is not something to be rushed with, because if you wanted to vote in favour of our proposals in this mandate, these things would have been long-standingly legally enforceable, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. All of this is, of course, also a constitutional witness, irrefutable that this initiative of yours is unfounded, that it is simply a matter of wanting, under the cover of a constitutional provision, to actually abuse the Constitutional Court in order to adopt a law which contains vaguely vague formulations, which is clearly contrary to the principles of constitutional law, since constitutional law only requires that every law be defined, clear and unequivocal. In just a few days, you changed your mind on some of the provisions, explaining them in different ways. One year's delay demonstrates that you are self-aware that the law is not necessary and that the current regime is fully in line with the standards, rules, the General Declaration on Human Rights and the constitutional arrangements of the State of Slovenia. In just two days more than 20,000 signatures were given for the request for a referendum. This clearly shows that people in Slovenia, when it comes to fundamental values, take things very seriously and that we have the transfer of current power and its economic inefficiency [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u102	Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I note that no, so we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There were 83 votes in favour and 45 against 36. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, it requires that the collection of signatures and the progress of deadlines for their collection be retained. Under the law, the request of the National Assembly will be forwarded to the Constitutional Court, which shall decide on it within thirty days. This will also be informed by the initiator for the submission of an invitation to tender for the legislative referendum and the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for carrying out the necessary actions to prevent the collection of electoral signatures to support the request for a legislative referendum on the law. With the retention of signatures, this is expected to expire today, until the Constitutional Court's decision, the remainder of the thirty-five-day deadline for collecting voters' signatures will also be delayed. In the event that the Constitutional Court rejects the request of the National Assembly, the collection of signatures will continue the day following the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Official Journal. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 12. Seven. 2011. We decide on the amendment to Article 1 of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. 83 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the amendment has been adopted. And we continue to decide on the second amendment, this is also the amendment to Article 2a of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. 83 Members and Members of Parliament voted. For all 83 Members. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since, in second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 1 and Article 2a of the amended Law, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to these articles? [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 83 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — ANNOUNCANCE WITH THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE STATE CONGREGATION. The President of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, is 31. 8. He submitted a written statement of resignation from the office of President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly will explain the derogation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I have intervened from up there for the last three years, it might be better to lose my words today, however. I do not intend to give any particular reason for my resignation as President of the National Assembly, because I have done so many times, but today I would like to thank all of you, my fellow Member and fellow Members, for their cooperation. As far as my side is concerned, I presided over a good National Assembly and I am pleased to be able to work with you in this function. If I hurt someone with my intervention or hurt them, forgive me, that was not my intention. As you know, three years ago I hesitated a little bit, slightly hesitated when I proposed to take over this function, but when I took over, I was happy to do it. At the same time, I kept my mind on the fact that I did not compare my people with the function I had performed, not now as President of the National Assembly, not years ago as Minister and not as Member, so it was not difficult for me to resign. I would also like to thank all three Vice-Presidents for their outstanding good and good cooperation and, in particular, all the professional services of the National Assembly, both those who directly cooperate with us and we can meet them, as well as many of those colleagues we do not see and are extremely important to our work. The National Assembly has a good, professional apparatus. Finally, I would like to express my special thanks to all those who voted against the proposal for my dismissal less than three months ago and have learned 14 days later that I intend to withdraw. I believe that this has been difficult to accept, but I also believe that you have all understood that certain rules of the game also apply in politics and that if they are not respected by the highest officials, who will respect them. And the motto of my resignation is: the rules of the game also apply in politics and must be respected. One more time. Thank you so much for the pleasant moments and less pleasant moments. I'll be happy to remember them all. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u104	I thank the President, Dr Paul Gantar, for his explanation, briefly, and for his kind words. In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: 8. He made a statement of resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly and, as of today, his office as President of the National Assembly has ceased. Therefore, allow me once again to thank our former President, Dr Paul Gantar, for the proper work done by the first of the same in the National Assembly, and I wish him all the best in his further parliamentary work. Thank you. / applause/ As the President of the National Assembly has ceased his office, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is, until the election of the new President, I shall replace him as the oldest Vice-President of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly for an hour. I ask qualified candidates to submit a proposal for a President of the National Assembly as soon as possible. The proposal for a nomination will be divided into benches in this plenary room and will be received immediately after the submission by all parliamentary groups. Before I conclude this item, I would like to remind you that at 3:45 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Mandate- volitional Commission in the Grand Salon. We will continue the meeting of the National Assembly at 4 p.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to four. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. In the context of this point, we will first consider determining a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated the term of office. Because Katarina Kresal is 2. 9. In 2011, the State Election Commission gave the State Assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the Member had passed on to Anton Anderlič. The findings were addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which also reported in writing to the assembly. You received the report on the bench. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I can't see the deadlines. Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the mandate of Mr Anton Anderlich, born 4. 6. 1956, based in Ljubljana, Resljeva road 35." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I would like to invite Mr Anton Anderlich, a fellow Member of Parliament, to join us again and take his seat. Mr. Anderlich, if you can hear us, I invite you to join us. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the President of the National Assembly. By the beginning of the examination of this item, a group of 38 Members with first-signed mags had submitted a proposal for a nomination. Borut Saiovic, who proposes Ljubo Germić as President of the National Assembly. In order to further explain the application, I give the floor to the representative of the Group of Members to the Magi. Borut Saivitz. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u106	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is, of course, one of the foundations of the Slovenian democratic regime and, if this must work smoothly, it needs all the leadership. That is why, together with colleagues from the SD Group and other parliamentary groups, we thought about who the future President might be after Mr Paul Gantar, who I also thank from this place for the proper work done. There was a higher number of parliamentarians in the choice and in the end there were coordination, wishes and thoughts [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Parliamentary in particular, Majda, thank you very much. The species have come together with colleague Ljubo Germić, and it is my honour to present and explain the proposal to appoint Ljubo Germič as President of the National Assembly. We, colleagues and colleagues are well-known, since the Member is already a third term, he has always been decisively elected in the local Ruša, the constituency of Ruša together with Sevnica ob Drava and Lovrence on Pohorje. According to his education, he is a university-grade chemical technology engineer. He also completed his knowledge with teaching, andragoical education and has a good year of postgraduate completion in the Netherlands. Upon election to the First National Assembly, he was director of the Russian Gymnasium and previously a technologist at the Nitrogen Plant Ruše, also an assistant at the Faculty of Chemical Technology at the University of Maribor and a teacher at the Gymnasium and the Central Chemical School of Ruše. He participated in a number of working bodies and delegations in the National Assembly, already headed by the second mandate of the Health Committee, proved to be consistent, consistent, professional and aware of the responsibility of the National Assembly and, personally, as President of this important working body. He also gained international experience in the European Parliament, where he represented Slovenia at our entry into the European Union, was a Member of the European Parliament for a year. Before our country enters full membership, and then a Member for the time to the elections. Following his entry into the European Union, he became the first President of the Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union. His life as a person is closely connected with sport, music, humanitarian work, electoral support in his local constituency does not give rise to doubt, it is a person who also enjoys respect, respect and trust in the environment. As the first of the candidates, I am convinced that Ljubo Germič, the man who will unite us in the National Assembly, has united us and has not separated us from each other, that decisions will be weighed and considered, and in particular that he will adequately represent this democratic institution on the outside, and on the inside we expect difficult work in turbulent times, when the discussions of our colleagues and colleagues will certainly come from the agenda. We wish and ask for confirmation of the proposed candidate. We wish him success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u107	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Franz Žnidaršič, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u108	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the event of a proposal for the election of a new President of the National Assembly, the Group of Non-Aligned Members has reached full unity and supports the candidate. I must say that we have assessed that it is necessary to immediately elect the President of the National Assembly, because it is only in this way that the National Assembly can perform its functions in an internal and external manner, because the great problem would be if the President of the National Assembly were invited abroad, for example, or if foreign representatives of governments, states or parliaments had announced to him, but they would say that we do not have a President and that you could be accepted by one of the Vice-Presidents. We therefore believe that it is right that the coalition has proposed a new candidate as soon as possible and immediately, and that the Group of Non-Aligned Members will unitedly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also express my support on the part of our Group of Members for the proposed candidate, Mr Ljub Germić. We believe that this is a candidate who will be in the professional sense, in a political sense and in particular in the human sense, a part of this task, so it is trustworthy. I would add that, while we all know together that the length of this mandate is questionable, there is no doubt that, as long as this National Assembly has to function, the presidency of the National Assembly is extremely important, we believe that the election is necessary and that the candidate is appropriate. Finally, I would just add, because there are some stereotypes at different levels, that nationalists always but priors support coalition proposals or at this point, I will say, a halved coalition, but that is not the case. We are making a substantive decision on every issue, even in this case, but there is no dilemma now, so support for Mr Germić is valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As co-sponsors of the proposal for Ljubo Germič to assume the presidency of the National Assembly, we will also confirm this in the vote. In the parliamentary group, we do not want the National Assembly to lose a president in the coming months, who is formally the second most important function in the country. For according to the situation and the tasks and decisions that await us in the coming weeks, they themselves require that the leadership of the National Assembly be fully competent in such tasks and procedures. So, the Social Democrats do not want the election of the first of the same, between us, after Dr Ganttar's resignation, to constitute further political exacerbation. On the contrary, we believe that the election of the President of the National Assembly is an added value for the normal and correct decision-making process of the National Assembly, which we are already awaiting this autumn. Perhaps today is another one of those milestones of Slovenian parliamentaryism, which will be recorded in history as an important test of political maturity and thinking ability, because political maturity can be seen with more pay. That, which is previously visible to politicians, shows us a picture of continuous proof of the power and political calculations of individual parties, of how to discredit a competitor or opponent at all costs, regardless of the price and consequences of these actions. There is also this second, less visible and more subtle side to political maturity, which goes beyond everyday political games. And this side has a much larger and longer-term positive dimension for the entire political and social space. Which choice will be chosen today. I want to and I think it is right that, in the political and economic situation that we are witnessing today, we choose this other side. In fact, the election of the new President of the National Assembly means only a pebble in the mosaic of stability and the cooling of overheated political developments that causes exactly what none of us want, at least I think. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assign to colleague Ljub Germić all the political credibility that a person in the position of the first of the same must have. We believe that Ljubo Germič is the right choice, that the National Assembly will get a good president, who will lead the National Assembly well and will also be a good master of procedures and procedures. That is why he has the full support and confidence of the Group of Social Democrats, desiring that other colleagues and colleagues in him recognize someone who will lead the National Assembly peacefully, peacefully and carefully. I believe that, too, the decision on the adoption of the candidacy was all too easy for a colleague of Germić. Indeed, we are living a time when, on the basis of the above-mentioned political calculations, decisions are taken which are not always good for Slovenian Parliamentarianism. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that we must remain accountable to Slovenian citizens and citizens and show them that Slovenian Parliamentism is mature and responsible at key moments to take decisions for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u114	Thank you very much and very much! It's a coalition of innocent, beautiful and intelligent decompositions. With each day, masks are more resilient and the true faces of the coalition leaders and their supporters are more visible every day. And these are not like the pictures taken by the media and the opinion leaders, they don't have such angels' faces. The reality is quite different, especially now that, at all costs, regardless of the costs and consequences caused by the State, the authorities are rounding us down, and they are leading us to destruction in a strict and courageous manner. This coalition cannot show good results, not compared to past mandates, but compared to current European competition. This coalition is completely uncompetitive and the backlog behind the European average is increasing rapidly. For a variety of reasons, ministers resign, and until-to-date partners withdraw from the coalition, and the President of the National Assembly also resigned. Although we do not formally have the left troika anymore, they are still together in all important topics and decisions. It is true, however, that we have a crisis of governance and, if there is a crisis in the government, there is usually a state in the crisis. It's ours. The coalition paradigm on the right path, this is the legal path, was finally buried days ago. The Council of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia voted in favour of its President, Katarina Kresal, who resigned a few days ago as Minister of the Interior for the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the rental of the National Investigation Office building and the Commission's opinion on the prevention of corruption, which it defined as corruption. Even if the President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Katarina Kresal, had been given a voting mandate, this would have said much about the party's political mainstream. But absolute support says absolutely everything. It also states what is the real basis or basis for this party's operation, says what values the party brings to the coalition, which it has carried out the entire mandate of the current Pahor government, and says that the candidate for the President of the National Assembly, Mr Germic, who has not voted against Katarina Kresal in the Council of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, also advocates the same concept. So if this appointment process is to be completed as proposed by the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, then at the second most important function in the country we will get someone who will formally still defend the right path and the rule of law and who will probably act in a diametrically opposite way. Otherwise, this coalition has been operating for the entire term. If they said they would lower public sector costs, they would raise them there. If they say they will reduce the number of employees by 1% per year in the public sector, so far they should be by 3%, the number will increase by just that much. If they say they will reduce public debt by 2 percentage points by selling state property, then they will not sell anything and the public debt will increase by 18 percentage points. If they say that the state will withdraw from the economy, then they will make recapitalisation in a non-transparent manner, such as the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana and make the country's credit rating worse. If they say they will save, then they and their friends conclude favourable contracts, such as the case of the National Investigation Office, where the partner or landlord of the country Yuri Pogačar is always on the safe side of the radar. But it's not the only case. If they say we're hunting a French-German train, then we're far behind. If they say we're on a safe path, then it's clear we're off the hook. If they say that Slovenian railways are being rehabilitated, then it is clear that they need additional money. If they say that our divisions will not be ours, yours, then ours or yours, depending on where they are looking, shall be cleaned by swift procedure. If they say they got out of the coalition, it's clear that they left at least their legs in it, if not their heads or their whole body. Such cases, when the paradigms are diametrically opposite from the actions carried out, are extremely large, and it would be good to prepare a special dictionary or a guide to understand the statements made by the President of the Government, ministers and other officials of this coalition. Otherwise, they well know that conditions are what people are able to sell, not what they are. Therefore, pyars and several non-tempered trumpets of wider importance, which on impact sides or in shock terms constantly talk and write about suspected alleged errors and actions of three political opponents, while minimizing or mitigating the actual criminal or corrupt acts of the current authorities and praising the imaginary achievements of the coalition. This is all an integral part of concealing the actual situation and deceiving citizens in order to feel the situation different from it actually is. Thus, for example, Prime Minister Pahor says that the proposed savings rebalancing is. However, the costs of payment to the National Investigation Office, irrespective of the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia or the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, remain the same. There's no change. Unused falcon is not a subject of sale. The same is true in many other cases: Dars is working in his own way, the RS Capital Investment Management Commission. It spends most of its time on the composition of various management and supervisory bodies and on strange business decisions. In short, all the prisons have been raised and the flow of public money released, which in various ways sits on the accounts of silent companies at home and abroad. Every recapitalisation there only directs him further. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a fiscal rule linking the budget expenditure on GDP to the power of the economy, and you mocked it. It is now being introduced by some other countries. Instead of being the first, we'll copy it. In short, the state does not operate, not at the executive or enforcement level and not at the legislative level. You have no concept, no person or person who knows or knows or is able to coordinate the work of these two branches of authority. In a situation where the coalition has only a third of the support, which is at least in the history of the country, when the coalition falls apart in the eyes of all in the executive power, there is no one who can set priorities and there are candidates looking for important functions. The rest of the coalition led by Borut Pahor will be provided by Katarina Kresal, although her Blaž Kavčič recently said that the National Investigation Office is an important experience, but it is neither the first nor the last, nor the largest. In the position of the Group of Members on the Family Code for the case of the Mayor of the Drolc Community, who announced that he had bribed state officials, I quote: "I hope that after the man said A would also tell B. To tell whom those funds went and to whom they were given and then will be one of those who did much for Slovenia." End of quote. Does this also apply to members of the leadership of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Blaž Kavčič and the leadership of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia with regard to the achievements discussed by Blaž Kavčič. In view of the actions so far, this may be an increasingly rhetorical issue. Or their conduct will be similar to that of the summit of Zares when, according to Biščak at the press conference, it is called upon to defend their President Golobic, who said that they would do the same as Golobič, that is, to conceal important information for the public. At that press conference were the then president of the Gantar National Assembly, Franci Kek and Irma Pavlinič Krebs. However, if they have been able to overlook anything at the police and other authorities so far, it will be difficult to turn away from this statement by Mr Kavčič and at the same time maintain the image that they are identical to all citizens. It is also difficult to understand that social democracy has thus adopted Katarina Kresal, whom the leader of their parliamentary group Dusan Kumer said this April that Katarina Kresal could have stepped down long ago when she was defended on all grounds because of the affair of the National Investigation Office and the Bulmastif affair. Despite these two statements by Kumra and Kavčič, despite the conduct of Katarina Kresal and her political candidates, the candidate for president of the National Council for Social Democrats is also the most acceptable. The President of the Government of Pahor and the rest of the coalition in the National Assembly are willing to do exactly what they can to remain in power. They do not want to admit that they do not want to import a country that has been assessed as a country through which the crisis should fall more or less. This government and this coalition are not about the success of the state and the well-being of its citizens, but rather about strengthening networks and clienteleistic ties, which, on the basis of modified calls or provisions of the laws, come into business. But with an effective piar, they grind the edges and squeeze the disobedient. Some of us know this from the first day after the elections, and a little later all the other citizens who will also pay a lot of money at the end of this exercise have learned about it. In a situation where the difference between words and actions is so great when disputed corrupt practices become and become virtues, when bad political decisions are made daily and bad decisions by state-owned companies die, when the government works only with political commerce and further concessions to such or other political supporters, much will be burdened by suspicion of corruption, the time has come for early elections and for this coalition to be done. To gain new confidence, to a new and credible coalition that will be ready to deal seriously with the reform of the imported state. We will therefore vote against the proposed candidate. The National Assembly can also lead to early elections by vice-presidents. Every day of delay, every day of delaying these decisions costs us 10 million Euros of credit, that is to say debt, which is twice what the elections cost. So our decision is clear, we will not support the candidate, we will vote against it. Nor will we support all those decisions that only prolong the agony of this country. This means that we do not support this minority government pilot project, because we know that trade is the most developed in seeking the support of such minority governments. At the end of the day, we did not say just one more procedural proposal. Among the signatories to the proposal for Ljubo Germič, Mr Anderlič also did not have the status of a Member at the time of the signing of the proposal for the President of the National Assembly. Which means that the coalition is very interested in these procedures being carried out and, it seems, might sometimes be able to get some kind of signatory for some kind of proposal on the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u116	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to try to be as gentlemanly as possible, correct as possible, and I'm not going to get tired of the sermons that we've heard from my predecessor. Today we are deciding on the appointment of the new President of the National Assembly. When our client colleague Paula Gantar decided to leave this city, he made a responsible decision, announced the date of the resignation and thus allowed the actual majority of Members and Members to agree and hopefully, we expect, to take a decision that we will confirm by secret vote. Our Group of Members will support the appointment of Ljubo Germić, because we believe that it is an optimal solution, even though we all know that it will have a relatively short period of time, it will be a very intense period and of course we want it to work as effectively as possible. He can count on the cooperation of his colleagues. We would also like to point out that today's vote and today's support for the candidate for President of the National Assembly does not prejudge in anything and does not mean that these relations, which will be visible, tangible, eternal today or that we can project them into the next important vote. We wish Love Germich a successful job, even though we will only vote on it, but we are confident that he will receive majority support. The Emissary Group will really support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u118	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the National Assembly must operate with full powers, regardless of when the government's crisis with the national elections will be halted. Even in the case of early elections, the National Assembly must function normally until then, that is, by the time the new Assembly is convened. We estimate that the remainder of the coalition, named colleague Ljub Germić, has proposed a good and correct candidate for the presidency of the National Assembly. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are determined that, in the face of such a political crisis and agony in which the coalition took place and, unfortunately, the whole country, we cannot support this good proposal. In the event of an election, we wish you, my colleague Ljubo Germič, to successfully manage this challenging and responsible function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly have been briefed on the reasons for the resignation of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar, prior to the parliamentary holidays. He also made a formal statement to the day before yesterday, and today we have also taken note of this at the meeting itself, which means that Dr. Paul Gantar has ceased to serve as President of the National Assembly. But it's up to us to elect a new president of the National Assembly. Although we regret DeSUS's resignation, he has proved to be a worthy, diligent and capable person in the performance of this function. There is no denying that his leadership in these times of political affairs, disputes between opposition and coalition parties, as well as disputes within the coalition parties themselves, in the face of extremely strong opposition, has been further complicated. Nevertheless, the House of Law has guided the right and the patient, which is also attributable to its long-standing political experience and to a good knowledge of the political situation. That is why we thank you, Sir Paul Gantar, all Members of the DeSUS Group for the work they have done. In the event of the resignation of the President, it is necessary to approach the appointment or election of a candidate for this function in order to avoid the disruption of the functioning of the National Assembly. The public operated with more names than the most suitable for this city. The solution contained in the proposal for a new President of the National Assembly, namely to elect Mr Ljub Germić, is, in our opinion, appropriate. That is why we have also contributed our signatures to this proposal to the DeSUS Members. Suitable, not only for the reason that we can read it in the media, that Mr Ljubo Germič is selective, far from that, we consider him to be a person who is distinguished by professionalism and work in the first place. Knowledge of the political stage, sensitivity to dialogue, affection for finding the points of reference, not emphasising differences. A person decorated by high human and professional standards. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the proposed candidate, Mr Ljubo Germič, is the right man for this city and that the work of the legislative body under his auspices will take place properly. That is why, Mr Ljubo Germič, on behalf of all Members of the DeSUS Group, I express my absolute support for you and, at the same time, I wish you a great deal of success in managing your new difficult function.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u122	Hello! We haven't had as bad a government as we have now. And we haven't had as many LDS as we have in this coalition government. The affairs were stacked, the president of this famous party, who is no longer sitting among us today, probably ashamed of her, had an affair with the Bulmastif, which bore the voice of Slovenia around the world. All the deviants in the world are looking forward to coming once to Slovenia, where they will enjoy it. We have a problem with the National Bureau of Investigation, no one is to blame, but money flows into private pockets, pockets of friends and the like, maybe lovers, lovers and so on. Cars without taxes were collected in Ljubljana and James Bond had one such Aston Martin as Mrs. Former Interior Minister and President of LDS. The rejection of drug testing is also a strange indicator, for the urine that it brought in after a while, people said that it revealed prostate inflammation. Media support for today's already failed media houses gave her all the support, was Empress Milica almost, only the car of Slovenia was not that year, everything else was. But the impact on the citizens was, of course, raining. We have received terrible punishments, people are already grumping over this, because of the loss of driving examinations, they have been violated by the fundamental right laid down in Article 2 of the Constitution. The police state introduced by the President of the LDS and thus by the party, and of course by the coalition, is as we knew it a long time ago. Not in 1980 and 1970, but in 1946, 1947 somehow until 1949. The police actions carried out by the Minister with the support of her party exposition at the Ministry of Justice, these police actions against me, against my colleague Magajna, show that there is no democracy and that democracy has been deliberately destroyed. And when we look at Mrs Ljubo Germič, it's like he's not even from the LDS party. A man who is by no means part of this framework that I passed on earlier. A man we can't tell him anything about. One of the few in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which we are happy to give in the National Party of Slovenia. I hope that Mr Ljubo Germič will take the path of unifying the National Assembly. It is necessary that the National Assembly works in a uniform way so that the conditions for the salvation of Slovenia will be created, for the solution that its President has also moved to 'ad kalendas graecas', somewhere in the light of the future that we have seen long ago, and the question is whether we will ever do it again. That's a start. I hope we can work with my colleague Germic and he will listen. In the end, he will also cut off the hunters of the secretary general and similar people in the National Assembly, who make strange decisions and decide on strange moves that are not in line with the basic policy, the one that the LDS should also advocate, as well as Res and also the DeSUS and also the SD, but it is a strange, semi-private policy. I hope that Comrade Germič will no longer allow this to control what is going on, so that it will not take longer and more time to call for a variety of new visual images of the National Assembly and so on. The money is being spent horribly, and if nothing else, if my colleague Germich here at least rejects this waste of money, he'll do a lot. But I'm sure he'll do the most in the direction of working together in the National Assembly. Once again, we'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u124	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr Vice President. We have said a lot about our colleague in the parliamentary group in our position. It shall fulfil all the formal legal conditions required and necessary to fulfil this job. I must say that the colleagues who are sitting with him in the parliamentary club, we know him by something else, because in addition to the professional-formals, he has all the human qualities that will help him to be successful, a good president of everyone, and that counts a lot in life. Thank you very much also to everyone for your opinions, those that were more or less inclined. There is no city and time to share and polynomise, but we are happy to acknowledge, and above all the attention that we have received as a customer, because this confirms that we are an important factor on the Slovenian political floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u125	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When I listened to the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tank, I thought that he had missed the agenda and that they had actually put their trust in the government on the basis of the 116th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which said that the National Assembly could only vote in confidence to the government by electing a new Prime Minister on a proposal of at least ten Members with a majority of the votes of all Members. This was the content of his debate, having nothing to do with the candidate for the President of the National Assembly, with fellow Member Ljub Germić. I don't know why you can't use this 116th article of the Constitution of Slovenia, because you've been announcing early elections in our country since then. But the fact is that, in fact, early elections are not a good time for you, you are certainly not well prepared for them yet and that the situation like today is actually appropriate for you. Mr Ljub Germić, a fellow Member of Parliament and candidate for the President of the National Assembly, I know long enough and well enough that I am sure he will serve properly and well as President of the National Assembly. As a sports enthusiast, however, he could be compared with the president of the lower house of the British Parliament, John Bercow, who visited our National Assembly this year and is also an enthusiastic lover and also a very good tennis player. I wish my colleague Ljub Germić the successful and impartial leadership of the National Assembly no matter how long our mandate will continue. I wish him a successful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Gregor Golobič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Miran Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have already given my personal opinion on my colleague Ljub Germić in an interview today, and I would also like to say this opinion to the general public on this occasion. Sometimes I get the feeling when I'm listening, under the nods, thanking our esteemed friend and colleague that sometimes we don't know each other well enough. In a way, I must admit that if Members of the various parliamentary groups were on the same occasion as I had recently with him and with former President Paul Gantar in Luxembourg, where we had spent an hour together in a more private conversation, we would get to know each other better and get a completely different impression of each other. Here we are more or less always in some tension, in some stress and some political distress, if I say so, and it's simply not a real picture of the '90s as we create it on other occasions. I have had the opportunity to learn this, and I must also say on this occasion that I value it very much, not only because it comes from teaching classes like myself, but in those few days, one learns another from a completely different point of view and in other circumstances. That is why I am very pleased that the LDS party has proposed him as President of the National Assembly, because I think he deserves this function entirely. I won't talk much about the client myself. I have a feeling he's getting out of this party right now, because the LDS in my eyes don't enjoy any great reputation. And not only because of colleagues who are now Members of Parliament, but because of all those in the past who once led this country and also brought it so far. But I don't want to say that my colleague, Ljubo Germič, is guilty of anything, on the contrary. I think he deserves this function anyway. I also expect the understanding of all colleagues and colleagues in this regard in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In normal democracies, in normal countries of the European Union, as well as wider ones, usually the President of the National Assembly, Parliament or whatever the legislative body is called, elects a coalition. It's kind of common. It's supposed to be like that with us, but as a country, we haven't been on the usual tracks in a long time. If this coalition counts 33 Members or 32, there is no possibility of electing the President of the National Assembly. But this coalition, of course, does not count 32 or 33 Members, as far as you have them in the SD and LDS, but also counts all those who have officially stepped down are the official opposition, and they are not really the opposition. But they actually support the government. So they stepped aside for some reason tactfully political in order to be more beautiful and kind to the electorate. There is something to be said about the appointment or election of the President of the National Assembly. We're in our client, I don't know, half a year or more ago, saying we're for early elections. At the time, there was a bit of shivering, a little disgusting mockery in the National Assembly, but look at the fraction, who still doesn't talk about early elections today. Today, he is also talking about early elections under certain conditions by the President of the Government. Now there's no more shivering. But I understand that the procedures to get to the early elections are, of course, complicated or not, and of course, I also understand, in part at least, the writing of the media, how we will vote and how we will vote on all cases, that we will, of course, remain in this chair here, each of us, until the regular elections, because we do not want to give up 53,000 euros and so on. It is important to make it very clear, as far as we are concerned, that we have long said that our votes will always be adapted to what leads us to the early elections. For the appointment of the President of the National Assembly, we cannot exactly say that it is directly linked to the early elections, but indirectly it is. So, at least as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say, my voice, which is going to be as announced by the leader of the parliamentary group, is not against the candidate. That's what you need to know. I can't vote against the candidate. Because if there was any candidate, which was also mentioned, I would already have three pages here, but I have nothing, Mr Germič, because on a personal level I need to be corrected and I will. The election of the President of the National Assembly, of course, means that the National Assembly will act in the way it will do today in the future. This means that those who are declared under the opposition are not the opposition, either B or C, today I have spoken to someone, even in the future. And this will, of course, distance us from the early elections, take us into a time that means the fall next year or the spring next year. And this is the most catastrophic thing for this country. And through this kind of vote, instead of pushing the button ourselves now, they say, "Let's relax, let's go to the early elections." That's not how the Prime Minister will do it with his resignation, I guess we all know that, or we all do. But to say for ourselves, "Goodbye, we're going to the elections," you see, this is not, not at any cost. But of course I'm talking about, at least after today's vote, we're talking about that work, but I'm not talking about SLS about us. That is why this vote, of course, once again, I see in the extension function, as Mr Golobič said, I think he said artificial breathing or, as it were, living, some such expression has been used by a minority coalition. That's not good. But if we are to come to these early elections, we must carry out all the procedures in this way and also all the votes in such a way that these elections, the early ones, occur, and today's vote is indirectly linked to this issue, one way or another. That's why I think at least, as far as I'm concerned, I've told you what I think, and personally and broadly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Kek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u132	Thank you. First official content. Slovenia is supposed to be a legal, social and democratic state under the Constitution. In my personal opinion, Slovenia is no longer legal, it is no longer social, so I want and I hope it will be at least still democratic. A democratic state needs parliament, needs elected Members of Parliament from people and needs good leadership. That's why I support Ljubo Germič. He's an official explanation. Human explanation. Love and I entered Parliament together in 2000, traveled in a number of countries in different working bodies, talked about music, sports, literature, education, education, work and life. For me, Love is a man who does not go about revealing bad intentions, nor has it been, nor is it possible for him. I respect him as a man. We don't drink together, we don't walk around together, we greet each other with respect, and we shake hands. That's another explanation. Third. My personal conviction is that no early election of this country will be resolved. This country can only solve tomorrow's unification of this policy and consensus, obedience to each other and adoption of such legislation, which is feasible in the short term, for example, I will make a concrete proposal, a single tax policy that will save us from trouble. No early elections will save us. My love, you have my personal support, and if we don't miss the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia in the next elections, Ljubo Germič would miss you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. During the selection of candidates who have been in the game for the last two months, Ljubo Germič is certainly the best offer, but he is certainly facing hard work, especially within his own party he will have problems and within the remainder of this coalition. Even now, it is clear that many envy that they will not be in his place or that their photograph will not hang there on the wall. I think there's a lot of confusion in his own kind. We are the opposition and we say everything out loud, everything clear and loud and the fact is that it is difficult to take over the leadership of the National Assembly when everything is on average between former comrades and when they are joined together by only Tito's road or some coin with the image of Commander Stannet. I read in the paper, I mean, in the evening, yesterday it was written that Ljubo Germič would be the "storage manager". I think that there will be a role in forcible settlement sooner or later, there will be bankruptcy here in Parliament, and I am also in favour of early elections, as are colleagues from my party. Progress is evident compared to the situation so far. Look, last night's poll in Vecer really has 0.4% support and the LDS has 1.4% support for Slovenian voters. This is quite a difference, even though we had a president and we will have a President of the National Assembly coming from customers who today do not have 2% of the support in the Slovenian public. So early elections are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In all this debate about the election or election of the President of the National Assembly, I must say that I support him and have no problem with that. I think he'll make a good president. With regard to all the signs that are taking place in this debate, I say that, in order to avoid proposing a mandate under the Rules of Procedure, you are also extending the mandate evident to others, but we do not extend our mandate, but we want to see something different as an alternative to what is being offered to us right now. As for the election of the President of the National Assembly, I have no problems and I support Mr Ljub Germić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Urh, Klasinc, Slapnik. Classics, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u138	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think we are very fortunate in this call by the National Assembly that we have, to this day, had an excellent President of the National Assembly, who I must thank once again for his good leadership of this National Assembly and we are very fortunate to have today such a candidate of our colleague, Ljub Germić, who is also more than a suitable candidate for running the National Assembly by his qualifications and personality. Why do I think they're both great people, the right people for this town? Because there are such contradictions among us every time in all the working bodies of the National Assembly, such debates that a person must have much knowledge, a great deal of patience and, above all, a great deal of tolerance that these contradictions that are being measured in the National Assembly can be settled in a peaceful manner. Most of our presidents also have them, we're all just people, sometimes someone gives in, sometimes they're a little better. But this is not as important as I think today I have been encouraged by my colleague Tank's debate and by my colleagues' debate from the SLS. [[...]] Look, it's not my head that the Members are so underestimating just themselves. We underestimate the fact that someone is talking as an introductory debate in the appointment of the new President of the National Assembly only about government, about the affairs that have taken over individual parties, the government and everything else, in the National Assembly, we do not respect our constitutional arrangements. We have a division of powers here. We are not aware that the National Assembly is an independent branch of power, an independent body which should have a significantly greater effect than it has. Why don't we look in the mirror? It is our fault, we Members, that our reputation in the public is as it is. That is why I think that colleague Ljubo Germič, who I hope will receive the majority support, at least it sounds like he has a very difficult job. Not only will he face the opposite opinions that are necessary and normal for every democracy, he will face the enemy speech, he will face the primitives, he will face the unacceptable behaviour of individual Members and he will not be able to. But most of these Members, most of us do, I mean, constructively. And that's why I think it's going to be as hard for love as it is for this job, but it's going to be a pleasure. There's something else I'd like to say. Today, the Family Code debate has repeatedly shown amazement and regret at why we cannot agree on everything in the National Assembly, why we cannot all think the same way. Listen to me, because this is the foundation of democracy, that we think differently. And the basis of democracy is to win the majority in the National Assembly by voting. And if we adopt such legislation as we do with the majority, then I would say that unfortunately what the opposition cannot achieve in Parliament and then break with referendums and other different methods is not the most appropriate way. I therefore appeal to all of us for patience, at least by the end of this term, whether it lasts 3, 5, 6 or how many months it will take. I think that we need to allow this country to calm down, that we can all work together to find the best possible solutions, but not that the Priories break down everything someone in good faith proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Slapnik. Mr. Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. I don't just know Ljubo Germič as a co-worker in the National Assembly. There in the 1990s I also had the opportunity to meet him as my teacher, a chemistry teacher at high school, and when he came to us in the 3rd year and somehow raised the standards he wanted from the students in chemistry, and chemistry was then, and I believe that even today for him all of us, those students we might have had a little more social talent resisted. And I remember being among the organizers of one of the student punches against this terrible Professor Germich, who requires such high standards of chemistry. Well, that's where Ljubo Germich won, but I must say, I believe that our mutual respect comes from that battle. Today I wrote my thoughts on this student's platform on Facebook, and I must say that quite a few people have come forward, our then classmates, who in the order of Love have recognized excellent pedagogical quality and undisputedly that they are a great person. One wrote that she trembled before Ljubo Germič looked at the directorate, that she trembled before a bad grade, not so much because of her poor grades, but because of the humiliation that Professor Germič would see. She asked me to let you know that she's going to be a chemistry doctor in November. At that time, Ljubo Germič proved to be a strict, strong and just man. Even so, I never had any problems at school, even in his class, and I realized that there was some respect from some conflict from some fight on the opposite shores. And this creates in my eyes also Ljubo Germič as a great politician and a great man, so today I will support him. But let me say something else about the political situation that has brought us all together into this situation that we are in. I didn't want the fallout of the left three, I can honestly say that I regret the party's withdrawal from the coalition. I am, in spite of many differences between the parties of the left troika, but not least, I also feel many differences in the parliamentary group to which I belong, and in this I see the wealth of democratic struggle, the ability to dialogue and, of course, the balance between different opinions and different solutions. That is why I say that this side of Parliament is absolutely better than that which may show Slovenian public determination, monolithism, single solutions, absolutely no conflict, and in fact will bring about some dark, gray mind. In this political situation, we have all been led by a course of conduct that we are all responsible for in this hall and everyone in our government. In the beginning, even in today's debates, we're the only ones right and you're the only one wrong and vice versa, you're the only one right, by 2008 it was all gold, after 2008 it's all bullshit. An optics that clearly prevents this House from developing a responsible policy that can cross the lines that can also make smart compromises and enforce the respect that should exist between opponents. I'm sorry to tell you that I'm telling this high choir now, but I'm sure that in every classroom, every Slovenian high school, when students talk about common interests, common needs, some small fights against their professors, they have more mutual respect and more sobriety and responsibility for achieving common goals. We in Parliament obviously are not able to design or identify what we all need as a community like Slovenia. And that is why, even though I am intimately in favour of the early elections, my wife can confirm this to you, I must tell you that the procedure is clear, with the constitution of the guaranteed possibility of those who wish to overthrow this power as soon as possible, and constitutionally assured and assured. I invite you to start the procedures that the Constitution prescribes for this, but also because I do not believe that we are all the same, because even though I sometimes share the harsh opinions that this government is sometimes bad, that it has made many unacceptable mistakes, that a lot of things have done significantly differently than I would personally like, but this power is a light year, if nothing else is good for the purposes, before what Slovenia promises today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am not a student of the esteemed candidate Ljub Germič myself, but I hope that because we are both chemical engineers, his chemical and political patterns, because we have repeatedly crossed words and agreed on most things, he was actually a few months in the same industry as I am at work. And when a coalition member told me 14 days ago that within the coalition it was decided who would be the new president of the National Assembly and hinted at me, he thought he had told me enough that he would be from Russia. Then there was the enigma of whether it would be colleague Willi Rezman, and given the ideological orientation of this left coalition, I thought that there was more chance that, without offense, orthodoxen had a rather dogmatic leftist, which I think also colleague Ljubo Germić agreed that he was a different profile. And, of course, because of this, it seems to me that according to the LDS party's political and value profile and the entire coalition's choice of Ljubo Germić is a surprise and that this is a tactical choice such as tactical choice or coercion, the decision of the SD that Pahor must run for the elections and for the Prime Minister of the Government. At the same time, there is a dangerous trap set by Ljuba Germić, because after this political, valuable profile, it would certainly have been if it had not been for such a situation and such a catastrophic situation in the country had chosen someone else of these species or those types. We know that there has been a lot of controversy between SD Members who have seen themselves as the future president. Of course, I hope that Ljubo Germič, as the chemist who is around the world, will have broad knowledge, I know that we have, and also good politicians from Margaret Thatcher forward, that he will know this capital that he has acquired through fax, to cash in a positive direction in the National Assembly and for this country. For I must say that I am very open, and though I do not politically agree with you on the other hand, we have excellent human relations with most. And for this reason, I also openly say that, for example, the previous one, Mr Gantar, I must say today from this place that he was eventually carried away when he said in Odessa that Members were not polite to witnesses on the investigative commissions. He was talking about a witness who was banging on the door on the investigative commission, got up and went, breaking the law, for a gentleman of the Ljubljana mayor. Fortunately, this happened in the same week that the case of Great Britain and the officer’s mogul Murdoch saw the sharpness of the investigative commissions. In one week, within a few days, there was an investigative commission, not like us, so that it could last two months before we could start investigating. Therefore, if this is not subject to this propaganda, the candidate should not be politically investigated by parliaments in the parliamentary commissions, which is almost a majority opinion there on your part. They must also be sharp, determined, and this is not a weakness of Parliament. The second thing you need to do in these savings programs is to be incredibly determined. Yesterday, on the Defence Committee, we heard from the Minister and the Chief of Staff about the catastrophic situation with regard to the military budget. Even after the rebalancing, there's no money for December's salary. And when I proposed an amendment that two million, one third of the funds would be taken from the Government's Communications Office, and given to train the military, because there is a government communication office by the President of the Government. We don't need them anymore. They have other ministers. That office is practically producing bad news that upsets Slovenians, they voted against. I hope that you will plead and influence Members to support positive proposals. I have a positive attitude towards Ljubo Germič, but for the sake of maintaining his political and moral integrity I will vote against, in a friendly way, against the fact that this coalition does not break it down internally and externally, such as Mr Pahor. That's why I can't wish you, with a friendly gesture to lead the National Assembly because you have a terrible fate ahead of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. It is my opinion that it is much easier to create a political crisis than to seek solutions, to design them, to bring them out and, of course, to people and to the economy. I myself estimate that all the derogations that have taken place both by ministers and by the President of the National Assembly have been designed to try to cause a political crisis in Slovenia. I do not think that this is good, especially because of the extremely difficult situation in which the world is, not just Slovenia. And one of those extremely important branches of government in Slovenia is certainly Parliament. I hope to say that Parliament is also somehow the most exposed in the public. For the first time, because we are running for elections to come to Parliament, secondly because I think that a lot of people are actually accepting things in Parliament, and I hope to say that somehow they just missed us in this holiday time. That is precisely why it seems to me that Parliament really should not be the one to help create a political crisis. It is right that we exchange views, it is right to exchange arguments and try to somehow present better solutions, even though many times we meet with many things trying to present itself with half-truths or sometimes even false statements. All of this is, of course, what often contributes to the fact that Parliament has never been highly quoted in public opinion. However, if we asked people whether Parliament is important for the functioning of the country, for the development of democracy, we would certainly agree that we are the most important body in the country. I would also, of course, like today's vote to result in the election of the President of the National Assembly and thus the confirmation that Members and Members are aware of their responsibilities and that Slovenia still needs the good functioning of the National Assembly at these times. Regardless of how we count who is still in the coalition, who is not in the coalition, but how much responsibility there is in making decisions like this has never been in any Member or Member of Parliament. Sometimes it's much easier to act in a coalition that, of course, has enough votes and a decision is made. At this point, it is the responsibility of each individual to vote in any way or to vote in any other way. We must not forget this, and this is also one of those opportunities and moments when we can prove to Slovenian democracy that Parliament really has the most important role at this point in the country's life. By electing my colleague, Ljubo Germić, I am sure that it will greatly help to ensure that Parliament does not create a political crisis, but creates an climate that will allow solutions to be sought, even if you want to take the elections or other decisions that need to be taken to help the economy, to help people and, of course, to resolve other important issues that we face within the European Union. By supporting the President, of course, and I also believe that Parliament will be able to work well during this period and help stabilise the situation in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u146	Slovenia does not need a new parliamentary president, nor new ministers, Slovenia needs early elections and legitimate institutions capable of creating a new development circle for Slovenia. Whoever defends his chair, his personal interests, will vote in favour, I will act in public, as will all my colleagues from the SDS Group and I will vote "again". Just like today and next time with the ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Campus. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Luka Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Ziherl, please, you have the floor. Mr. Zicherl, I'm sorry, I missed Mrs. Shirca because she was mistakenly deleted earlier. You're giving up. Yes, Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I was a little surprised when the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Gantar, made a resignation statement, especially because he had been through all the battles, had a difficult mandate, survived two interpretations, survived the cube that was in his space and was only a time delay that saved him from being injured and then, when he survived it, he resigned. Of course, good words have fallen on his successor, and I agree with them. But it's not about what he's going to do, about how he's going to do his job. This is a principle, because Slovenia needs early elections more than the election of the President of the National Assembly. And that's exactly why I don't see the point for this month, for two, when, according to the announcements of the early election, they're going to elect someone to the presidency of the National Assembly. Furthermore, I would like to point out that my colleague Germič is going to run into exactly the same situation as Dr. Gantar had, and I do not know what kind of miracle he can perform. And in the end, I would say to him, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u149	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. Posedel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am thinking that if it were not possible, it would be good for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to record that there is no discussion or explanation of vote when there is a secret vote. Since we have heard so many announcements in the National Assembly about how any candidate will be supported, then the vote has been shown differently or vice versa. I think we are listening to a story today that shows a picture of this House. There were very few words spoken about Mr Ljub Germić's candidate. If one of them spoke, they praised him so much that he probably pinched himself a little if he was still alive, if it wasn't a funeral, or if others said he wasn't even mentioned. And this is the same story as it was twice in this House when an intervention was made against the former President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. At the time, he played a very foreign role in this film, but they were the main players of Borut Pahor, ministers, government, state and so on. And it's the same today. Today, most of the time at this presentation was the word "early elections", by those who should have done so long ago. Let us remember when the data and words of Mr Grims, who laughs so beautifully when the country lost one million a day, then lost three, then five, today we have heard that 10 million a day, and those who do so, I will say, "harmful behavior" do not decide on the instruments that apply. Submission of proceedings for the non-trust vote. You're not, and today you're just talking about early elections. The previous presentation was only about talking, not about the candidate, and about what lies ahead and how his work will be done. Similarly, colleague Jerovšek showed the nature of some Members in his presentation. Happy birthday to the candidate, since you were young, practically because you know each other, everything they do in their home yard, in Parliament, but we will vote against it. Against it because it's just the current situation. As the party decides, how the party president decides, we will all work, talk and act. And this is the biggest mistake at the moment in Slovenia, because it is no other than the fight for power between the parties. I am sure that this desire to see the government crisis emerge and show itself as black as possible will also be presented as a parliamentary crisis, for which there is probably no need. Parliament is doing extremely well, statistics are probably not bad, not participation, not voting, and last but not least today, two votes made with a very good and necessary vote in favour of citizens and citizens, and I do not know why so much talk and connection and opposition is needed for the person who deserves this function, given the moral, human, ethical virtues you all recognize, but you will vote against it because of the party, because of everything that has been said also at the level of some, that the Vice-President or Chairman should probably react on the basis of statements regarding [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the contents in Mrs Kresal's urine. [[...]] Perhaps then, Mr Vice-President, we should remind Comrade Jelinčič that this was below the level of the National Assembly. And what was said was that maybe the former president of the National Assembly got carried away at the end of the evaluation. I think it got carried away right from the start and got carried away, but first of all, to say that I greatly appreciate the esteemed Dr. Paul Ganttar, he was put to the vote by the time he repeated and put it to the vote, the 2008 final account vote. That was a fundamental mistake made by the former President of the National Assembly to blackmail one of the parties, namely the SDS, to repeat the vote on the matter, which was what it was, and at that time not only fell on the examination of the President of the National Assembly, but unfortunately also the Prime Minister of the Government. Things have been happening since then, and since then we all know what needs to be done. So today to talk about who will be president when the elections are held is a very marginal issue. Just once today, someone mentioned that Slovenia, without the consent of the left, right, middle, all parties, will not be the winner of this story, that the pension reform, which was a very good project of this government, which was adopted in this Parliament, fell in the National Assembly, was reaffirmed in Parliament and was rejected by the street in the referendum. Probably a new coalition composed of, I don't know what kind of mathematics it will have to come immediately after the early or regular elections by re-voting on pension and other reforms. So those who are obviously working hard to bring them to Parliament and to Slovenia, I think the parliamentary crisis is playing too hard with the fate of this country, and therefore I hope that the respected Mr Ljubo Germič will be elected today and that at least Parliament will continue this work and make decisions in favour of and for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare for Marian Križman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In this house of democracy for every matter, we speak much more words than we should. I'm going to say this, in these years, as much as I wanted to meet my colleague Germich, I must say that he is the right person to run for President of the National Assembly. Now, to assess current political situations in one way or another, we will assign him a very difficult task, because the time before the elections is, and we know that since the previous elections, they have been constantly running in this house of democracy activities for early elections. Even in this candidacy we see in fact how Slovenian politics is divided, all those who want to be neutral in some way want to understand the left and the right, we find that this is simply not possible. And if we wanted this country's good, we should all, I'll just say, "screw it by hand" at certain times. But we are not simply capable of doing so, or some are not capable of doing so. Even if we arrive at early elections, I myself think and defend early elections, and I will do so in the National Assembly, but I think we must have a President of the National Assembly by then, and my colleague Ljubo Germić is a true candidate, so I will also vote for Ljubo Germič in today's elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Krizman has the floor to prepare Aloise Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will gladly support Mr Germić as President of Parliament, because I am sure, like most debaters, that he is a true candidate and capable of this function, and I will not, in return, share no thanks or thanks, because this is not my task, everyone gets their salary, everyone has to work properly and it seems to me that everything has been done properly and more than so many words that I do not have to waste. But I would advise those who don't know what they want, and that's what they want right now to go to early elections if it's such a big wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Ivan Grill. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franco Yuri. [[He won't.]] Mr. Jože Tanko, he can't because it's been a while. Mr. Dushan Kumer. [[He won't discuss it.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can see the hands for the application. Please, who else wants to discuss signing up? The application is under way. He's 21 now. If we stay at 21 and we have 40 minutes left, it's two minutes each. Then everyone who checked in has two minutes. The first word is Mrs Renata Brunskole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u156	How nice to meet you! I'll be brief. I will support my colleague, Mr Germić, and I believe that there is no need for words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u158	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you! Dear colleague Ljubo Germič has my support. Above all, my support is from a serious point of view, so serious in this sense, because the President of the National Assembly is still another man of our country and it is possible that we should be even more aware of this than we have been before. And at the expense of that, of course, he has my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Kikelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support Mr. Germich. Why? Whether the elections are Monday or one year from now, the National Assembly needs a president. The President of the National Assembly is an important function in our country. I would also like to tell all colleagues who are so itchy about early elections or anything else, you have a chance, you can replace the Prime Minister, you can propose your own. But if that doesn't work out for you, you can get your term back if you don't like sitting here anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han gives up, Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u162	First, we must protest against the way that is now taking place. Report to the 21 Members, and then they give up nicely, so that those who have something to say take the floor. All those who spoke about it, go to the early elections, read the constitution. To all those who spoke, as we have just heard, and before to Mr Posedel, that we have the constitutional possibility of replacing the Prime Minister. Don't paint people, Mr Posedel, don't paint people! We can constitutionally replace the Prime Minister by giving him an untrustworthy statement. But you won't tell him what you don't trust. You know, because you're the opposition under B or you're the false opposition. That's why you need 46 votes, my dear. And don't call us to early elections to replace the Prime Minister, we can't change that. This can be changed by 46 Members. But since it's opposition B or false opposition, I'm talking about you in the middle, and then of course it's not. But there is no other way to go to the early elections when you say, "Those you want to go, go." Yeah, how's that? Look at the constitution. It is clear, however, that we have proposed a constitutional amendment so that Parliament can dissolve itself. What did you do then? You turned it down, you see. That is why it is not the way to talk about matters; it is easy for people to say: the early elections can be decided by 46 Members, so that they change the Prime Minister. But these aren't because we have a false opposition. He's sitting in the middle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. The replica's gone. Mr Posedel. It's time, we have as much as anyone has. Mr. Franz Žnidaršič, please prepare Dejan Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u164	Thank you very much. It is clear that I will support the candidate for President of the National Assembly, and I hope that he will be part of his task, there is no doubt about it. But I liked hearing us praise him so much that he probably thought about being alive. I think what my colleagues said about him being well deserved that he is still alive and that he will lead the National Assembly as a living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The saddest part is that every moment in the National Assembly we take advantage of each other and that today's possible election of the new President of the National Assembly has become once again a beautiful platform for political accounting when early elections will not be held. We'll be there by this moment. That's where I end up. I will support Mr Germić's candidate for President of the National Assembly and wish him good luck in running the National Assembly, which will certainly be a great challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get Juliana Bizjak Mlakar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u168	Thank you very much. There was so much praise that it exceeded all standards. Mr. Ljubo, you have my support, and I wish you every success. But I would like to express my opinion. You know, those who stand down six months before the elections are either calculating to me or weaklings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the floor. Get Tomaž Mencinger ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Today we have before us a candidate for the President of the National Assembly, whom I will gladly support. I have been fortunate enough to be on the Committee on Health, which runs it, and I can say that if at the meetings of the National Assembly, if there was such an atmosphere and such mutual cooperation as we often experience on the Health Committee, then I think that people would be more pleased with the National Assembly. So I hope you'll take that atmosphere to the National Assembly. I know it's gonna be hard, but let's try and maybe people will be more pleased with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Mencinger has the floor. Get Willy Rezman ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I can say that really Ljubo is the candidate who in the situation in which the state is in, with these things, also the other things that make him a suitable candidate. I see in him a man who will seek compromises, who will listen to the left and right, and I think that this is the right decision to decide to run for President of the National Assembly as well. I wish him a job that will be really hard, a lot of success and as few stressful situations as possible, so you have my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman. Get Aloyz Posedel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's just time to count the four facts. The first fact is that we have agreed that all five non-aligned Members will be supported by the candidate on Sundays. The second fact is that none of us, as Mr Jerovská has tried to insinuate, have been candidates for any function. The third fact is that I admit to Mr Jerovsk that I am left-handed, that I am not ashamed of this and that I am proud of it and the fourth fact is that, despite being left-handed, it is not me, nor the other four Members, who are now unrelated, that we are not coalition Members, that all of us have stepped out of this coalition and that we therefore have important concerns that we are likely to express in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan, I skipped you. You want a word? Here you go, Brad Roast. No, no, no. Mr. Lois Posedel. Get Dushan Kumer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, since you did not give me the opportunity to replicate earlier, Mr Gorenak would first have the answer, because he claimed that I was "painting people". Mr Gorenak, I publicly declare, not to paint people, nor to paint my hair, but to say what I mean. With regard to Mr Ljub Germić, I said earlier that I respect him, that he has all the qualities and that I will vote for him. Since he's an excellent and very busy tennis player, and at tennis, Ljubo, we know the extended game. And in this function of yours, I think you're gonna have to count on a short game. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl. Just get ready, Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u178	Thank you very much again. Mr President will have a hard job because we have noticed, or for a long time, an phenomenon that we can call the self-destruction of the coalition. As a result, we certainly have, since there is a single Slovenia, the largest group of unrelated Members, i.e. Members who have broken up with their parliamentary groups. It could also be called a group of disgruntled Members, for they apparently had an argument with their mother and went elsewhere. The pension reform has been mentioned as a good proposal, which has been brought down by the ugly opposition at the referendum. Today in Finance, we have read that businesses are still not paying social contributions and that 300 million is a debt. That's about as much as it's going to be in the pension register because of the failed reform. It's gonna be hard work. I'd like to point out something in the end, because I come from a series of chemists myself. And if you were to be praised by a student, but you would tell him to make some extra hour out of the stechiometry with the equation C + O2 = CO2 and calculate for 100 units by that equation PV = N x R x T, how many cubic meters is CO2, then 125 more units, that's 25 percent more, and then he won't propose a resolution by 40% less CO2.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Get Marian Kriszman ready. Only Bevk won't discuss it. Marian Krizman, please give me your word. Get Dara Lavtišar Bebler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u180	When he was fishing for fish with the deaf, he went past the other deaf and said, "Do you hunt fish?" "No, no, I fish," he said. "I thought you were fishing." That's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u182	Thank you very much. There I heard some kind of plea from the other side that they were unable to carry out or lead to early elections. Those who have little more memory and were Members of the 1996-2000 mandate know that this can be done and that this party has good experience in this area. Unless it goes otherwise, it can also be done with some, conditionally speaking, purchases of some Members. Try it if you're up to it! I personally argue that the credibility of the National Assembly requires the election of the President or the President of the National Assembly. That's what Slovenia deserves. This is an obligation of the National Assembly. It would be very irresponsible and unresponsible if we did not try to reach the new President of the National Assembly. What motives and background does anyone have in this, and I'm not going to get into this. I'm sure at least the National Assembly has to do what needs to be done. And if not, lead to early elections. Of course, you have the opportunity to reach your mandate holder. Your experiences are positive, try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor. Get ready for Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u184	I was a proposaler on behalf of the SDS Group on Constitutional Change, after which Parliament could actually dissolve itself. You said no. And the same people here today say, "Go to the early elections." How? The Constitution does not directly permit this. But if that's what you're serious about, then there's a way ahead of you in the coming days, because there's a secret to the election of ministers. So vote against it and there will be no more problems. With a vote of no confidence, there will actually be open roads for early elections. And this will be the moment of truth in this House, a moment that will put your words today in real light. And one more thing. Vote as Professor Ude said, which I agree with, and I also stand behind with all my knowledge and responsibility. Each of the ministers should be voted on separately and each should receive 46 votes. Only in this case would a vote of confidence be made to the Prime Minister; everything else leads to early elections. I wonder if you can handle so much responsibility, knowledge and courage to go into it. And of course, if you are so stately that you can do that courage to give up your privileges in favour of Slovenia and vote against it. By the way, when you spoke about the President of Parliament, I hope that if he is elected, I myself have said - I will act stately and vote against him already today, but that he will have a happier hand and that Parliament under his leadership will not accept such nonsense as it is under the previous one, just as it was with the law that was in play today. Let me draw your attention to something else, you have yourself represented as an advocate of the extramarital community, or do you even know what you are going to do to read the first articles of the law, to put her in a subordinate position against some other communities, not to mention married couples, in this same law. This is an inequality before the law, which is also a constitutional category. So, you're in your own hurry. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Laconica bravitas. I've known my friend Ljubo Germič since 2000. I will be happy to support him, for all these years he has shown a stable attitude, and I believe that with this stable and fair attitude he will show that we do not all belong to politics in the same basket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u188	Thank you. I judge, as do those who say that the President of the National Assembly is urgently needed for the good functioning of Parliament. I find it encouraging that so many good thoughts have been expressed about the candidate for president, but of course I have not heard a few disqualifications that have gone to the expense of others. Indeed, there is a democratic deficit that we cannot give any leadership in the National Assembly to a woman, but this moment is not even so important because it is a short time. But to use a vocabulary such as that used by colleague Jerovšek when he used a bad term for those who were mentioned as candidates in the public information media. I'm sorry, then I should've also said it was a run-in between candidates if he wanted to put them in the same light. I think that it is precisely that Ljubo Germič was not the only one seen in the presidency of the National Assembly in his favour that I wish him good work in this place and possibly Ljubo Germič ever again on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairmen and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. Since this moment the National Assembly does not have a president, it is replaced by a mag. Vasja Klavora, as the oldest Member of Parliament, and I ask him to take the presidency and vote in secret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u190	Dear Members and Members! The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Robert Hrvat, Franci Kek and Guido Kres. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevel, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the Commission's proposal? I guess not. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. 60 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed voice box in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 18.35 and will last until 18.50. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 7:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u191	We continue with the adjourned point 4 – Elections of the President of the National Assembly. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Ljub Germić as President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 2 September 2011. 82 ballots were distributed, 82 ballots were delivered, and one ballot was invalid. There were 81 votes in favour, 57 votes in favour. 24 members voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 24.]] / applause/ On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Ljubo Germič was elected President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate Mr Ljub Germić, President-elect of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and wish him much success in the performance of his duties. Mr President, you will address the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u192	Dear Members, honourable Members, my colleague's appreciation, my esteemed colleagues! Thank you for today's election. To those of you who have supported me, of course, thank you for your trust. However, those I have not convinced are asking for the opportunity to cooperate properly despite the differences in the interests of the country. Thank you, too, to my predecessor, Dr Paul Gantar, who has worked to the best of his ability to provide the National Assembly with a space for cultural dialogue and a reasoned debate. In our country as well as in the whole world, we are facing great challenges. Probably the biggest in the last decades. So far, development models have shown their weaknesses and we will need to find new solutions so that our parents and our children too can live better. Each of us has an important role to play in this process; each individual and individual, all branches of power and all our subsystems. Our solutions will be as good as our discussions in society. In doing so, the National Assembly, as the institution of the legislative branch of power and the central place of dialogue, plays a key role. Our discussions, our work and our decisions have an important impact on people's lives. We come from different backgrounds, from different regions of Slovenia. Each of us has his own knowledge, his own knowledge, and his precious experiences. I want this diversity of the National Assembly to become a rich example of tolerance, dialogue and constructive decisions. I don't look away and I know the reality, despite the great efforts that have been made to want and to wish for successful Slovenia, all things are not good. Among us are social distress, intolerance, apathy, and also pessimism. Many people are on the verge, but we must also be aware that these tribulations must not be used for selfish purposes and narrow interests, but must be among us as bad conscience and admonition and a call for responsibility that we are here to solve problems patiently and responsibly. Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens have shown that we can step together and find the right solutions for our common path. This unity and constructiveness has been demonstrated in the process of democratisation, self-reliance, integration into the European Community and NATO. All of us from both left and right of the political space have contributed important elements of our successful common path, committed to a common goal. This commitment, however, is something that people rightly expect from us. So let's live up to these expectations! My lead at work will be patience and responsibility. Tolerance between us and between citizens and responsibility for Slovenia. I'm just the first of the same, but I'm aware of different people. And at the end of our joint mandate, I wish to be able to say that I have connected variously in our common goal, this is a social, just and patient Slovenia. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-02-SDZ5-Izredna-45.ana.u193	I thank the President of the National Assembly for his words. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 2 September 2011 at 7.07 p.m.
