ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mag. Melita Župevc, Renata Brunskole by 3 p.m., Matevž Frangež, Roberto Battelli and Mag. Borut Saiovic. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defence proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on classified information within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Trophynik and Mr Posedel. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, William Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Following the examination of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, it was found that the State Audit Commission did not have access to classified data. At that time, we tried to eliminate this illogicality or weakness of the text with an appropriate amendment, but we were warned by the Law-Legal Service and the Government that the idea was good or acceptable, but it did not fall within the law that was being dealt with in order to regulate it in the Secret Data Act. This is the reason for the proposed law, and another illogicality has been identified in the preparation of this seemingly small substantive amendment, namely that, under the existing law on access to classified data, the mayors and members of the municipal councils, the third body of the local community, have access to the data, but not the supervisory committee. This is illogical, according to our opinion, and we have also proposed in the amendment to allow access to classified information to members of the supervisory boards of local communities. In the adoption procedure so far, the Government has pointed out that access to classified information should be too extensive in the existing law, so the amendment of the committee at the meeting of the Committee narrowed the matter down to the members of the State Audit Commission or to members of the local community bodies, namely, the mayor and the municipal council, and, of course, a draft amendment to allow access to the members of the supervisory committees. I propose that we adopt the proposed law, because this amendment, which reintroduces the right of access to classified information to two local authorities, is for the mayor and the municipal council, and preserves this basic idea of change in order to allow access to classified information to the members of the State Audit Commission, we may also agree with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Government has not applied for an explanation of the opinion and the views of the groups are therefore presented. I'm sorry, I almost missed Mr. Gorenak. The position of the Public Administration and Justice Committee will be presented by its President, Dr Vinko Gorenak. It happens, yes, I've been focused on the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u4	Yeah, I totally believe that. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee has considered this proposal for a law. We had all the views, both the governments and the proponents and so on. It is true, as the initiator has already said, that we have adopted an amendment on the committee to delete the municipal representatives and confirm the basic text. Now I see that an amendment of the coalition has also been tabled, which brings things back to their original state. The Committee adopted a proposal for a law, which you received in the proposed text, with an amendment which deletes the municipal representatives and adds the State Audit Commission, and it is all in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is to be made. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Secret Data Act, which is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, he received support from his mother’s working body. We will also support the bill in our parliamentary group. Access to classified information without authorisation means that only persons authorised shall be entitled to access the data for the purpose of performing their duties or duties. These persons shall also include the President and members of the State Audit Commission, who is an important supervisory authority in the procurement process, by means of a supplementary proposal for the amendment. It is therefore a proposal that, simply stated, seeks to regulate in particular the scope of the beneficiary's access to classified information. The purpose of the law is to ensure that the President and members of the State Audit Commission, as state officials, are subject to the same rights as certain other officials as in the Court of Auditors, mayors, municipal councillors and so on, and that these rights apply to the members of the supervisory committees of the municipality in the future. As has already been said, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear Mr. President! After careful consideration, we decided to support the proposed solutions to the law on amendments to the Secret Data Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. It does not seem reasonable to us that the President and members of the audit committee and members of the supervisory committees of the municipality, as set out in the original text of this law, are exempt from the regime applicable to all other functions at the local and national level which have access to classified data without a specific authorisation. The institution of the State Audit Commission is an independent and independent state body, so we do not see any obstacle to the legal treatment of its president and members being comparable to that of a judge, for example. Similarly, the Congregation’s Supervisory Committee is the highest authority for the supervision of public consumption in the congregation. There are many examples of disputed decisions by mayors and municipal councils in which the legality and regularity of the procedures and the use of municipal funds are questioned. Despite the fact that the content of the supplementary Secret Information Act under consideration does not include the possibility of access to classified information for members of the supervisory committees of the municipality, we support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u10	This seems to be a very simple and short law, but it is an intervention in matter, which also relates to the regulation of access to data that we use together or access to them under the conditions of the European Union and within the framework of NATO, and is also regulated in this way. Since the amendment will solve what is necessary, there is no reason to oppose the law in the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thanks again for saying that. I'll be very brief. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law because we believe that it is an unnecessary deficiency that should not even happen, and now is an opportunity to remedy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Amendment to the Secret Data Act under consideration infringes Article 3 of the Act, which gives a taxive indication of function holders who do not go through a check carried out by the competent authority. The applicants of this novel initially anticipated that in line 3 members of the control committees of the municipalities would still be members because they sided with the Court of Auditors and with the President and members of the State Audit Commission. The State Audit Commission, as a special, independent and independent State authority, is comparable to institutions whose representatives have access to classified data without a specific authorisation under Article 3 of the Secret Data Act. At first, in the Group of Social Democrats, we thought that we would not support the proposed law because it was an infringement of that part of the law, which listed certain function holders who had access to classified information without a special authorisation or were not subject to verification in terms of the level of confidentiality, but we decided, after careful consideration, to support the proposal in the work on the President and the members of the State Audit Commission. We also agreed with the proposal by the proposer that the amendment of the committee should delete the extension to the members of the supervisory committee of the municipality. Later, we found that the amendment to the Committee had not been followed by a discussion of the applicant. I quote: "We have not allowed ourselves to propose deleting any of the current beneficiaries of access. But if we were to do this, we would propose according to the mayor's experience and the municipal council, but someone else has to take care of it." On the basis of this debate, we have concluded that the intention of the proposer was not to delete the individual operators referred to in the article, but to expand the potential holders of functions that could access classified data without permission. On this basis, we have taken stock of the initial proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which adds a new 11th indent, which reads as 'President and members of the State Audit Commission'. This would keep mayors and municipal councillors in Article 3. In view of the fact that the Government has opposed the proposed law or has pointed out the caution in spreading the existing set of those who have access to classified data, we propose to the Government to undertake an analysis and assessment of the implementation of the whole Article 3, in particular in the part that says that the persons referred to in the preceding paragraph will be authorised to start a function and to sign a declaration that they are aware of the rules governing the protection of classified data and that they undertake to comply with the rules. If it is found that the law is not implemented consistently, appropriate solutions should be drawn up. Members and Members of the Social Democrats propose that you support our amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Under the Secret Data Act, Slovenia is simply so that Slovenia is somewhat unique because you have an extremely wide circle in the law, at least in relation to foreign laws in this area, of beneficiaries who can access this data. In this marriage, there is such a very cute coalition mix-up. First, the coalition says that there must be access to classified information by the members of the Court of Auditors, then we come to the committee and the coalition says: because it is okay, let's give this access to classified information, but let's get those municipal officials out of here. And that's a new coalition decision. Then there was an amendment that says: "Now we've changed our minds, but now we're not going to do it, and now we're going to put the municipal officials back and just expand you." We will not uphold the law, we will not oppose it — it is nothing harmful, it is nothing. It is said that we will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we tried to follow the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Secret Data, but there are no concrete reasons in the bill for the permanent access of members of the municipal supervisory committees and the President and members of the State Audit Commission to classified data. These supervisory authorities already have the possibility of accessing classified information with a special authorisation, but why further powers should be needed as a matter of urgency and the law is in no way clear. The audit or supervisory function can still be carried out without prejudice to the legal matter in this area. They just get permission for the information they need and demand. In order to ensure consistency, Slovenia is obliged to inform the competent authorities of NATO and the European Union and the signatory countries of bilateral agreements on the exchange and protection of classified data. It is even desirable that the circle of people who have access to classified data without authorisation not be extended, but even the number of direct beneficiaries of this right be increased. Also in this regard, the adoption of this law is contrary to basic international guidelines. The allegations in the bill that it is supported by some ministries are not preventable, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also clearly opposes this proposal. We have here a negative opinion of the State Council. In short, all the arguments that are supposed to show the real need to amend the Secret Data Act have not convinced us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, so we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Seven. 2011. We're moving on to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Anton Kolarich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u20	One more time, even though I've explained a little. We believe that the intention of the applicants was not to delete it from the law, that it was not possible for the mayor and municipal councillors to have access, but to add members of the audit commission and the president of the audit commission. That is why we have tabled an amendment to keep the mayors and the councils inside and to add the members of the audit commission, and that this is then the same as it was, plus the audit commission. And as I said in the opening presentation, the Government will then analyse the implementation of this Article, but this is the second part of our proposal that is not bound by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Willy Trophynik as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would take this opportunity to discuss the amendment in order to explain, although there is a slight change, the misunderstandings that have been observed. I do not wish to violate the Rules of Procedure in order to reconcile the views of the groups of Members, but I say this in advance, but there is something to be said in the explanation. It is not true that the applicants would appoint the municipal supervisory committees as the third authority of the municipality to visit the Court of Auditors. That's wrong. The Court of Auditors has jurisdiction as far as the municipalities are concerned as it is with the State, and therefore there is no need to put aside anything. Why we suggested this was one another's logic. According to the Law on Local Self-Government, the municipality has three bodies: the mayor, the municipal council and the supervisory committee. The Supervisory Board is a supervisory body and supervises the functioning of the mayor and the municipal council, and of course there is no logic if those two who can do something have the right to access certain data and those who control it do not have the right to do so. That was logic or philosophy, if I call it, of why we included the members of the Supervisory Board in the proposal. However, since the Government's position in the debate was negative in view of the fact that the existing circle is too wide, it is also acceptable for us, and then we have also proposed that, regardless of the fact that we expect the Government to take advantage of the opportunity and propose the marriage of those mentioned in Article 3, and the events were as described, I will not repeat them. However, I would also like to say that the adoption of this amendment, proposed by the SD Group of Members, provides a fundamental intention of amending the law, namely to allow the President or the President and members of the State Audit Commission access to classified information. However, I do not think that this is particularly necessary because it is an important supervisory body, and with the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement, we have complicated the licensing of the President and the members of the State Audit Commission, which is illogical, to say the least, and even more so. I warn you, this solves Article 2 of this Act. There it could be that one of the existing members of the State Audit Commission who would not comply with the conditions laid down in that other law would, by law, cease to be a member of the State Audit Commission. This is one of the fundamental problems that needs to be highlighted in a small change of this law. On behalf of the applicants, it is also acceptable for us that this amendment, which has been tabled, has been adopted in order to ensure the implementation of the basic intention of the law, once again to allow unconditional access for the President and members of the State Audit Commission to classified data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of free access to arms trade documents in the years 1990-1994 under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members, first signed by Tade Slapnik. On this proposal, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I would now like to give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal to Tade Slapnik to explain the bill. I don't see him in the hall. [[advertising from the hall]] This is Mr. Slapnik. I don't have any information that he's here, so let's move on. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. He's not here. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, here comes Mr. Slapnik. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u24	Your Honor! In our view, this law is not necessary at all to access the data we need to clear up certain things from the past, but because it is obvious that lawyers, constitutional lawyers and others have demanded that this be done, that we cannot do it otherwise, but more, some of the holders of functions such as the Minister of Defence, and I think there are also problems in the National Assembly and elsewhere, that we do not get the relevant documents we need for further work. As I understand it, it is the will of all political groups in the National Assembly to make certain things clear. That is why we will support this law in the Liberal Democracy, and that we will be able to reach the conditions as soon as possible for some of the discussions that have been going on for too long to be properly concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I'm sorry, unconnected MPs. I haven't been sleeping much lately.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Before and after independence, Slovenia legitimately and legally armed itself to defend its sovereignty. As a result of the widening of conflicts after the war on Slovenia in neighbouring countries or republics of the former SFRJ, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia has also assisted these two countries or republics in the interest of ensuring its own security over a certain period. In 1991, 1992 and 1993, in addition to the arms trade, Slovenia provided various forms of assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of the many information that has emerged and is still occurring in the public, a clear distinction should be reached between the purchase and sale of arms in the interest of the State and those purchases and sales that have been linked to the suspicion of the personal exploitation of individuals or potential criminal offences of illicit arms trafficking. The purpose of the law is to take advantage of the public interest in order to achieve as much information as possible on the weapons of territorial defence in the period prior to the independence and on all other circumstances of the purchase, sale, import, export and transit of arms and military equipment in the years 1990 to 1994 or arms trafficking, namely: the disarmament of the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia or the transfer of arms of the territorial defence; the taking over of arms and military equipment taken over by the State authorities in 1991 from the former Yugoslav People's Army; the purchase of arms abroad for the purposes of the State authorities of Slovenia; the purchase of arms in the foreign territory of the public authorities; the purchase of arms in the foreign trade of arms, by virtue of the trade in goods of the law of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Herzegovina; the transfer or transit of weapons of the sea for the purpose of the public service of the public service of the Republic of Slovenia; and the transfer of arms of goods of goods of the law to the trade in the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the Republic of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the State of which it; the territory of the territory of which it is carried out; the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the Republic of the territory of the territory of which it; the territory of which it; the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of which it; the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the Republic of the territory of the Republic of the territory of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the territory of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the territory of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of The law provides that, irrespective of the degree of secrecy, all documents relating to the donation, purchase, sale, import, export and transit of arms and military equipment or arms trade shall be made available at the time of 15. 5. 1990 to 29. 3. 1994 the degree of secrecy withdraws or cancels the confidentiality of the data. However, the law also requires State authorities to ensure the protection of personal data and to protect them in an appropriate way from publication of documents. The protection of personal data does not, however, apply to public function holders and individuals employed in the public authorities involved in this trade. Free access shall be provided for inspection or in such a way as to ensure copy, photocopy or electronic recording. The law provides that all documents shall be provided with an electronic record, if the documents are not in electronic form, and shall be published on the website. The latter way of access also prevents later manipulation of documents, such as processing or falsification, because everyone can quickly and easily check their authenticity by comparing them on the website. The law also lays down an inspection body and fines for the responsible persons of the public authorities acting contrary to the provisions of this law. We do not have a group of unrelated Members to clear up until the end that time of arms trafficking, which is often the subject of public controversy, as well as newspaper articles, personal witnessing and book publishing, and so on, it is not against - to be clarified and closed forever. It is right to get rid of the burden of that time and this arms trade that is the subject of mutual accusations, innuendo and suspicions. That is why this matter needs to be clarified, and then together we can go into a brighter future than the one that we see in terms of what has been going on in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that I am one of the co-proposals and that we have not said anything in the introduction, I will spend a minute more on this and I will also take advantage of the presentation of the parliamentary group for the reasons that I have co-signed this bill. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support this law as co-proposers. There are many reasons, so I will only point out some. One important reason is that the repeated political debate on arms trafficking without public awareness of some of the documents of that time, creates the basis for continuing accusations of involvement, responsibility and guilt of political actors, and has to date been without epilogue. This is becoming an unproductive and exhausting force. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that after 18 years it is time to withdraw the levels of secrecy and confidentiality from those documents that have remained in the archives of the various state authorities after all these years. For as they know how to tell the acquaintances, quite a few of these documents from various periods of the past 18 years have simply disappeared or even perished. Why, apart from the testimony of the participants, there will be a great mystery for all eternity. We also believe that it is not possible and prudent to take decisions which would recommend or require the State authorities to do what they should do, but simply to adopt a law whereby none of the state authorities will have an excuse not to deliver that or that document. It is also enough to conceal clearly non-essential transactions under the cover of national interest. In the face of the indisputable fact that in the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the highest authorities, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Security Council, in 1991 and 1992, political positions were adopted to help, including with weapons, the newly created countries of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in defence of Serbia's aggression, which was also in the interest of Slovenia, has apparently existed in the public for almost 18 years now a strong doubt that this was not only about assistance, but also about trade, and this illegal arms trade, and the war profits of individuals. It is therefore high time to impose primarily on the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior to open all documents relating to the type and quantity of weapons and military equipment, the manner in which the aid is offered, the documents relating to all material and financial operations in this regard, the documents supporting or underpining the operation of the financial assets through which the accounts at home and abroad were used, the financial resources used, the decision-makers and the supervisors, and the documents in which all of this is demonstrated. And let those documents show that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and who is in this then government have been informed of the flow of assistance to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there's more. Since all of this has not happened to date, there are no answers to the question of who took the money from the arms trade, where the profits went, and how high the commissions were. Many testimonies, documents published even in books that are not so small, undoubtedly prove that trade on Slovenian soil brought huge profits and created new elites. The first Slovenian tycoons were born in an illegal arms trade under the cover of national interest. After years of speculation, speculation, a number of parliamentary investigative committees, it is in the interest of citizens and citizens to put the truth about arms trafficking to the bottom. Notwithstanding the fact that, in the past, there have been cases before the courts concerning these issues, that arms trade has been investigated by the Ministry of the Interior Crime Service, that there have been several investigative commissions in the National Assembly, there remain questions as to whether political views have been pursued, including the aid for arms trafficking, or whether criminal acts have been possibly committed, to date without an answer and without an epilogue. In the SD Group, we believe that such an approach by law would greatly contribute to the relevant determination of the facts of aid with arms and to the calming of public opinion, whether this was possible for illegal conduct and corruption, the exploitation of individuals. Another reason why these documents should be opened by law is that after almost 20 years this topic has become a very hot bone for some of its actors. For today people who feel deceived have spoken, for they have lived in the belief that some things they do because of their noble inclinations and not the corrupts that some individuals have done on their own and on their behalf. It is more than obvious that the decisions of the country's highest summits on assistance to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have also been misused for illegal arms trafficking, that it was personal exploitation and war profit. Even more so, when adopted on 25 September in the Security Council of the embargo, legal aid channels have become illegal and, of course, have strengthened illicit arms trade. In this way, illegal arms deals have been even more in the dark by now. The so-called state crime blossomed. Some today would say it was systemic corruption. Arms prices rose even more due to the embargo, and trade profits were even more expensive. Arms deals are based on greed and nonsense. This will last and will last for as long as mankind exists. However, this does not mean that we have to accept this and keep our eyes closed, because, as we can see, some of the experience and knowledge from that time is being passed on even today when it comes to the acquisition of weapons, at least when it comes to the transparency of purchases and the involvement of intermediaries in the acquisition of arms for the Slovenian Army, and the names are sometimes similar. But since these are things that need to be given from the political menu in some way, we have also been working together in the SD Group in this context. Therefore, in the view of the SD Group, it is not possible to have a credible and relevant debate on this until all documents are available, and until then this topic will be reopened and reopened and used by daily policy tools to distract attention from other major problems and issues. Notwithstanding the fact that the Commissions of Inquiry had major difficulties in collecting evidence, since the Ministry of Defence had mainly prevented them from doing so, they considered that they had been able to gather sufficient evidence and evidence to confirm that illegal arms trafficking was taking place in the territory of Slovenia during the period 1990-1993. The main part of this trade was carried out by the Ministry of Defence, a smaller Ministry of the Interior, and a smaller part of the trade was carried out by some companies. There are also interesting reports from governments regarding these aids and arms trade in general. Thus, the government wrote in its report in 1996: "It is undeniable that before and after the independence of Slovenia, it was legitimate, justifiable and legally armed. It also helped Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the interests of its own security. In addition to numerous legal and legal activities, there have been cases of illegal arms trafficking and the personal exploitation of individuals on this basis. In some accounts abroad, there is a suspicion that there has been abuse and personal exploitation. The arms were also found to be sold for cash. The prices were different and were determined by the Minister of Defence and the chairman of the then Security Authority of the Ministry of Defence from case to case." This report was made within three years on the basis of criminal results and military intelligence. And also what is particularly symptomatic during that period and in these reports: "Unfortunately, the government notes that the competent authorities of most criminal cases in this area have not yet addressed or are not aware of their stage of prosecution. The procedures are long-term, allowing endless possibilities of doubt and manipulation." This is what was written in that 1996 government report that never saw the light of the world in this national assembly. And it's amazing that there were no epilogues. Most of the complaints also came from the Ministry of the Interior criminal service and the findings of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence's intelligence and security service were rejected in the prosecutions. And there is still a lot, a lot, of these findings about specific disadvantages. Therefore, it is entirely out of line to hide this conclusion and action today under the mark of secrecy. Their opening and accessibility to the public to these documents is the only way to end stories with hints and guesses. It is true, however, that many comments or assessments for some individuals will be unfavourable after so many years. But this cannot be the reason why things continue to be hidden under the mark of national security and anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We started this point a little bit strange, a little evil; that's what the content is. There is no proposaler, despite the fact that the life opportunity offered once in a lifetime is such an important thing to present. The president of the National Assembly is wrong with the parties, although I understand him very much, because today you really don't know where anyone belongs, politically. Law on free access to arms trade documents in 1990-1994 – why the law? Why are we adopting the law? Can the coalition get these documents without law? Of course he can have them. Who's got these documents? These documents are currently managed by Dr. Jelusic, Dr. Gantar, Mrs Kresal, Mr. Pahor, and have these documents. Who are Mrs. Jelusic, Dr. Gantar, Mrs. Kresal and Mr. Pahor? They're an integral part of the coalition, they're already falling apart, but they're also working coalitions. Do they need anything, or do they need the law to get these documents? The answer is no, they don't need the law to get these documents. They need a secretary to write down the order that writes the document "remove the degree of secrecy". Then they need a locksmith to go to the basement, unlock it and show it to the public. So why do we have a marriage? So why the retreat? Why don't they do it themselves? They can do it themselves. There's no need for marriage. But the answer is actually clear. All gentlemen and ladies belong to the left political option. The left political option has a tree of life, a tree of life that grows, a tree of life that blooms, slowly sees from the moon, like the Wall of China. It's called an arms affair. The motto of this left political coalition in 20 years is: this tree must live, this tree must flourish regardless of the season. We must never let it fall together. We must never lose it. He must live and grow, at least for as long as he is in the politics of John Janša. It's an emergency. And after that, it would be very good to keep it, even after it is no longer in politics, but also then it will work, even then it can flourish, even then it will work. It will affect SDS, Janša, Janša, from a single point of view: SDS must not win too much. But look, this tree of life is growing and growing even though the fertilizers are changing, despite the fact that those people who support it are changing, but it seems to me that this is the way it is, you know, that if the same soil keeps fertilizing the farmer with the same manure, then he doesn't take it anymore. If you spray the same thing all the time, he won't take it anymore. Or, you know, if we take too much of the same antibiotic, it doesn't take anymore. I'm afraid it won't take long. Let's go in one order. 15. 5. 1990, disarming the Territorial Defense. We all know that. The enlarged Presidency of the country decides: the country must be defended. Later it is decided: Croats and Bosnia must be assisted. But look at the fragment, because the country is blocked, you don't buy weapons for the defense of the country with potatoes, tomatoes, beans and so on, you have to have money. It's a roadblock. You can't just order money now because they're gonna pick it up for you. You have to carry it in the trunk to get the gun. Yeah, like that. Well, there was a arms trade. Or who's keeping it a secret? Legal? Yeah, legal. Illegal? Yes, illegal, the ones in Maribor and the cases you have on the river when the Croats seized that truck when the man was smuggling, he wanted to make money. Plus, it's illegal, it's legal, it's not a problem. Ten. 9. 1993, the first growers of the tree of life sparked rumours that there was trade and money in the pocket. He's reacting to the president of the state of Drnovšek, wants to have a report, he gets 19. 9. 1993. He doesn't see anything wrong, nothing. He got all the documents, and he said he didn't find anything. 28. 3. In 1994, rumors continue, the then left political option removes Defence Minister Janez Janša, the first investigator comes. 29. 3. In 1994, the transfer of business is the first investigator, Mr Jelko Kacin, investigates, investigates, appoints commissions and writes a report. 4. Ten. He submits a report to the President of the Government, Mr Drnovšk. He sees nothing, nothing, he sees all the attachments. 23. 11. In 1994, there are criminals at work, writing down criminal charges, Janša, Bavčar et cetera. It's the same as now, exactly the same; now it's called Patricia, but then it was called something else. And look, the charges are falling. In doing so, once again, I stress that Barbara Brezigar is not the one who would reject them. I have a broader explanation with me, and I'll explain to you exactly who you want. Here comes Mrs Cerar, 8 years of time to rebuild procedures – nothing, so things have fallen. The script is similar to today's. Mrs. Zobbek Hrastar has left, but the trial is in September. A life's chance to bring the former Prime Minister to trial! He can run for president of the country. No, she's gone. Why is that? And the same thing happened at the time — the charges fell. Seven. 6. 1996, elections, action. At work is also the President of the Government, who wants to have a report, this is Drnovšek, and gets it. He can't find anything. He can't find anything. In 1999, new suspicions, elections go in, new investigator, mathematician, Mr. Moge. In front of him, sir – what is it? I'll explain later. In short, there's a Moget committee at work. 29. Ten. 1999 report on their findings, Drnovšku report, which says he has a lot of them, and in a better form informs Mohet: stop, you see that nothing is there. But maybe he'll start writing books. Last time I met him, somewhere on Chop's Street, I don't know if he's selling them or not. 28. 8. 2002, Intelligence and Security Services Control Commission, Action. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 9. 2009, the bookkeeping report from number to number, it's all written — nothing. 19. 9. 2003 interrupts the Prime Minister of the Rope, who says "stop," in other words. No, it's 2004, field action. Mr Mogue, Terchoon, Dr Gantar and Mr Kumer are at work, they go to the Ministry of Defence, they want to see everything again, and they see everything and report to them. 21. 1. 2005, the Commission gets all the reports, all the documents, all the annexes, all the calculations — nothing. 30. 9. 2005, Government report. At that time, he was the new government, and he was Mr Erjavec, the head of that party, who is also demanding to investigate the case today. Of course, again the commission and everything else, and Mr Erjavec finishes his work 24. 3. 2006, he's been sending out all the documents for 30 years. 9. 2005. In 2006 Mr Erjavec sent all the documents again, and received them, 16. 6. 2006. But now we're moving on, fall 2010. What was it like in the fall of 2010? New investigator, Mr Slapnik, young, capable, with a lot of knowledge – action. So, Mr Slapnik replaces, builds on the work of Mr Kacin, Mr Madonna, Mr Moget, Mr Terchoon, Dr Gantar and Mr Kumr. A new investigator, do you imagine? Now that's gonna be something. Action, articles, TV contributions. By the way, it reveals Mr Jerovsk's terrible works, but that was for "by the way," really easy, that's not the problem. The main objective is Mr Janša. At that time, Mr Janša answered and said, "God, remove all the marks of secrecy, and look at these documents. You've seen them like that before. Take away all levels of secrecy, you have legal grounds for that, and give them to the public." Back in December 2010. Nothing. No, no, no. What do we get in March? Request for an extraordinary meeting of the Internal Policy Committee. Why the Committee on Internal Policy, what does the Internal Policy Committee have to do with the keys of Dr. Jelusic, Dr. Gantar, President of the Government, Mrs. Kresal? Why an extraordinary board meeting? What could the committee do? Nothing. There's nothing the board can do. He can't force these people, he has no basis for that. How can the committee and I, as chairman of the committee, force these people to do this if I can't and I don't have the mechanisms and I'm not in your political option? What am I supposed to do now? Nothing. Therefore, we request a meeting of the National Assembly, where the National Assembly would decide that all should be open to withdraw all levels of secrecy. But look now, the situation is relatively absurd, very absurd. The National Assembly was supposed to conclude that. If the aim of the policy option is to disclose all documents, as Mr Kumer also said, then it is likely that there is an invaluable political treasure in those documents. This priceless political treasure must be obtained as soon as possible. With him, it's possible to destroy the chief of the opposition. Do you know what that means? Let's go to the polls and win in 20 years. The one-party system could be back. But no. The National Assembly doesn't want to, the coalition doesn't want this evidence, the coalition doesn't want to expose this treasure. The Coalition says: we will accept the declaration on which we will adopt the law. Yeah, but what if the keys are in your hands? We even support the declaration, we support the declaration. What else do we want, because we are a minority, because we are the opposition. And to immediately fly that marriage to our table on April 13th — no, it flew to our table on May 13th, the last day. Why is it so late if there is a political treasure to disable the opposition and its leader? Why? Look, damn it, there's still a problem. So we have the law on the table. The business options are clear: the urgent procedure, the reduced procedure, I do not know what else is in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Potrč certainly knows more than I do. No, regular procedure. Why a regular procedure if you want to get to the treasure with which you will destroy Janša? No, regular procedure. Why? And we'd go on short notice, urgent, and that sort of thing to get to the treasure first. No, it's regular. Okay, now it's regular, okay? Instead of speeding up the regular procedure, there is another document called a general debate. Why general discussion for God's sake if you want to get to the treasure? Let's skip this phase, go straight to the committee and the National Assembly and adopt the law to get you to the treasure. You will destroy the opposition. That's the point! No, but now we have a general debate today. I suppose there might even be a request for a public presentation of the opinions that this may take a little longer. No, that's not the point. The goal is something else. The goal is the one I said in the introduction: The tree of life must live. That's the point! It's not a goal to get to the treasure. If you know that there is a political treasure to destroy the opposition – for God's sake, go! We could have gone by ourselves, but you didn't want to. You have your own keys, so you didn't want to. You could have taken the decision of the National Assembly, but you didn't want to. You could have adopted a law by emergency, quick, short-circuited procedure, but you wouldn't. You don't want to go to the treasure! The tree of life must run, so that is the goal. But look, now you really see the moon as the Wall of China. If your goal is to get to the treasure and destroy the opposition, chief of the opposition, and remain in power, let's do it. Why don't you do it? Why? Because you know there's nothing there! You've managed this treasure for 14 years, and we got it for four years, and now you've had it for three years. So we all know, and the coalition and the opposition, that there's nothing there, but the trick is that this tree of life, called the arms affair, you're sustaining. And you don't want to look at the supposed treasure waiting for you there. Agree, abort the meeting of the National Assembly now, meet these four people, Dr. Gantar, the President of the Government, Mrs. Jelusic and Mrs. Kresal, and consider, quickly at work, in action, the treasure of the day, and destroy this terrible opposition. Why are you dragging, why wait for September now, for second reading and for third reading?Oh, my God! You're doing this to keep the tree of life alive. We will, of course, support this marriage, you will not believe it. So we support the law that leads you to the destruction of us. We support this law. Only a few amendments will we prepare for you, Mr Slapnik, those who will go this way to reveal all the documents. You have not listed all the documents to be found in the bill. But it's not right, because the treasure you're waiting for isn't going to be perfect now, and you need to get to that treasure. Good luck with that. Thank you. And the detailed explanations here, if you need them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the outset, I would like to clarify this last part of Mr Gorenak's implementation, which here has been deceiving that the former coalition has demanded a general debate, today's first hearing. It's a complete lie, Mr. Gorenak. Here is the document signed by the SDS Members, first-signed Mr Jože Tanko, on 18 May, when you submitted this request. So you've been lying out here quite nicely. So I hope that you will then draw this statement back and thus deny what you have explained that we have been delaying in the adoption of the procedure or in the adoption of the law itself. Otherwise, illegal arms trade in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has been investigated by several parliamentary investigative commissions, but we know that no one has completed its work to date. After almost 20 years, the scope of arms transactions is still unknown, as is the amount of unlawfully acquired funds under this heading. Many public announcements, both the testimony of the staff and the various documents, have long been without a proper epilogue. This is also the reason why this topic is constantly returning to political and media treatment. To keep this subject under constant review without a definitive epilogue is already unproductive, a single assessment by all political actors who have so far repeatedly called on the competent national authorities to withdraw the confidentiality marks from all key documents relating to arms trafficking. As a result, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is also held at an extraordinary meeting on 12. 4. 2001 has adopted a declaration on the withdrawal of secrecy from all documents and has committed itself to drafting the law that we are considering today. Who, who, how much, and what was sold the weapons remained open questions until today. The purpose of the law is, therefore, by withdrawing confidentiality from key weapons documents, to provide answers to at least the following questions: Was it traded for cash? Where's that cash? What's this cash spent on? Who's got the cash? Where are the records of the sold arms owned by the Republic of Slovenia? Did gun dealers buy weapons abroad and sell them further? Were the war profiteers responsible for the arms trade? And last but not least, who helped the warlords never to answer to a court of law? We also agree that it is reasonable that, even before independence, all the facts concerning the weapons of the Republic of Slovenia's Territorial Defence and the conduct of the then republican authorities and the conduct of the Yugoslav People's Army in 1990 be disclosed and that all the facts concerning the disarmament of the Territorial Defence are disclosed, which is also related to the arming of the Territorial Defence for the protection of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. The law on the provision of free access to arms trade documents between 1990 and 1994 is a very important law. The purpose of this Act is to open to the public, definitively and once and for all, all documents of this country relating to arms trafficking in the early 1990s. In the Group of Members, we really believe that citizens and citizens certainly have the right to know what is what Slovenian politics has shared for the second decade. They have the right to know what was going on, how the business was done, how state assets were sold, and what competent institutions had already found on arms transactions more than a decade ago. Citizens have the right to know and then to make their own judgment. So let's open these archives, let's give the public an overview of all the files, all the records and findings of criminals and other investigators. Let them be given the opportunity to understand why such a cry and a cry arises every time someone talks about arms deals. Let us give citizens and citizens an opinion on how it can be that, with so many known facts of abuse and malversion, nothing has simply happened in 20 years. No one's been punished. Let every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia have the opportunity to understand what an arms coalition is. Let every citizen be given the opportunity to meet a group that has been engaged in illegal arms deals and later has grown into the entire network. Why is that important? Simply and simply because the original sin must first be cleared up. From the very beginning, there has been a major abuse in the cradle of this country of all the judicial institutions of this country. However, the findings of the police and intelligence services regarding the abuse of arms trafficking were simply not reached by the courts at that time. It's stuck somewhere. That's when we got untouchable in Slovenia. Everything we now popularly call tycoonism, and what we today call major abuses, it has its beginning. And this is the beginning of the arms trade. For the first time since independence, the rule of law has fallen. Let us therefore give the Slovenes and the Slovenians the opportunity to know where the reason is that after two decades of their own country we still find that something is wrong, that the whole justice has been paralyzed, from the police to the prosecution to the courts. It is our duty to at least try to correct this original sin. Let the publication of the entire documentation on arms trade be a strong reminder to all those who hold public functions today and will meet them in the future. Let them know that they are not untouchable so that the nation may write down judgment without judgment. Let them know that they are not untouchable, and then let the citizens decide for themselves whether they believe they can manage this country fairly and fairly in the future. It'll be a democracy. By adopting this law, we will achieve something else. The arms affair will not scream every time one of the employees talks about it, or when an unknown document appears in public. There will be no more unknown documents, all of them will be made available to the public. Journalists, researchers, and historians will be available. However, this should be agreed upon by the entire parliamentary majority gathered in today's Parliament. However, as we have heard at least at first reading, the proposal of the law also agrees with the biggest opposition party, SDS. Surely, during today's debate, we will also hear talk about who in the past had the opportunity to open these archives and who in the past had all the instruments to clear up arms transactions or open archives. Is this even relevant at the time of the adoption of this law? Does the accusation of what happened make sense? Why would we do that back? It is even more irrational and irresponsible to oppose the law by arguing that the archives can be opened by the government itself. As manipulative as it is to declare that you support the opening of archives, and then you don't vote for the law. Agree with the goal of opening the archives, but pleading that we should go the other way. But, honourable Members, it is now under consideration this path, the way to open the weapons archives by law. Let us support it, for it leads to exactly the same goal as any other path. If we say we want the archives to open, let's not waste time looking for new ways. The solution before us is legally appropriate. Moreover, it provides a clear instruction to all competent authorities to publish all the documents to be listed under the law. What, then, may hypothetically affect those who may not support the marriage today? The answer is in the palm of your hand: the arms coalition. Perhaps their problem is not how to open these archives. Maybe their problems are the archives themselves, and what the documents say. Now we know that the arms trade was officially worth only 28 million German marks. We also know that the cash was not written, even though then Defence Minister Janez Janša admitted that they were also dealing with cash. It should also be noted that Janša initially denied cash transactions until 1999. He then admitted this operation, and later, in 2000, when he was the Minister of Defence again, he again denied the business of cash in the official document of the Ministry of Defence. Today, Janša says that it is all in a comprehensive report that he wrote at Drnovsk’s request in 1993. It also says that it will be available for all detailed explanations only when this document is made publicly available. Let us therefore adopt this law, and let us also open the tongue to Mr Janez Janša. On the basis of everything I can read in public documents, I can say that I need to explain something myself. For months I have also been waiting for answers to a number of public questions which I have addressed to Mr Janša. His answers and explanations are also required in a number of books, including in the recently published first part of the book On behalf of the country entitled ‘Resales’. Explanations are also required in thousands of newspaper articles that confirm the many expressions of testimony given by participants in these transactions. But the key documents, even those at the defence ministry, are still secret. In the Group of Members, we really believe that, although in the country of law, documents containing data that could be evidence in criminal proceedings cannot be confidential. It's obvious they're with us. They're hidden, completely inaccessible in various archives of the country. We have two options at our disposal to open. The first is that we assess the eligibility of the secrecy marks on each document separately and consequently get involved in long-term procedures. The second option we propose is the adoption of this law. It is therefore worth stressing that this law is also the most economical, as it does not create a monthly part of a number of officials reviewing paper. And there's one more thing. By adopting this law, we will also relieve all those officials and politicians who should decide in the future what should be public and what should remain hidden. Why put individuals back in a position to do something that would not suit the arms coalition? Why, because of some who abused the position entrusted to them, various officials would once again put themselves in an impossible position to decide what the public has the right to know and what they do not. Is there any reasonable reason not to do so by us Members? Is there any excuse that the documents would not be opened by the National Assembly, since, above all, the repeated intervention of the Arms Coalition by our predecessors in previous references has failed to lead to the conclusion of no parliamentary commission of inquiry on arms trafficking? It is certainly worth re-emphasizing why it is necessary to draw the line under the arms trade. In particular because, at the very beginning of this country, the abuse has become permitted for some. We are not surprised, therefore, that years later, various new entrepreneurs and economists can feel that they can do whatever they want in the economy. The most prominent among them is Mr Igor Bavčar, then Internal Minister. Today he is taking part in the Spring Public Tribunals of the Transition Right, which is the only alternative for the future of this country. In a mockery of all citizens and citizens, especially at the mockery of all the active fighters of the war of independence, they have been boasting for the past 20 years with the exclusive self-servicing merit they have privatised for their own political benefits. In doing so, of course, they remain silent about the cruel truth that it was at the time of the rule of law that they gave a cruel lesson, a lesson in arms dealing. After that, in the last 20 years, the arms coalition has repeatedly shown what it is like to stand in front of a wall. We only know three months, for example, the document of the Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia of February 1997. After a press release on TV Slovenia, his authenticity was also confirmed by his signatory, the current head of the military intelligence service. The key part of this document should also be repeated today. Firstly, the investigators' finding that if they recalculate Janša’s quantities according to the prices quoted by Janša, there is a difference between the good 10 million German brands. Secondly, military intelligence has found that the entries in the Janša premium record do not hold, both as regards the quantities sold out and as regards sales prices. The data on the quantity of arms they have at their disposal, I quote, "does not correspond to the claim of payment with compensatory transactions, nor would this claim be consistent with the information given in the Janez Janša report, insofar as it would take into account the prices which are evident from certain other documents". So let us adopt this law and see what documents the military intelligence officers had at their disposal to file such a serious accusation. Let us give those who, as they say themselves, have for the past half-second decade been mutilated and again and again the same charges, the opportunity to explain, for example, Nicholas Oman's statement, which told POP TV: "Well, as the last payment to me, the Minister of Defence has handed over four million German marks in cash to his office, says in the Ministry of Defence, and this is also documented in the last hearing with the Ministry of Defence." Since Oman also said that he had brought $60 million of weapons to Slovenia, the opening of the archives would allow its declarations to be verified and compared with the statements of the former Defence Minister, who claims that the arms trade was for only 28 million German marks. The documents that have already been published give rise to serious suspicion that the abuse was embedded in the system of the country’s functioning at that time. It all shows that the power elected in the free and democratic elections of April 1990 has led the arms business in the home, could be said for a wedding or, if anyone is closer to the term, by tycoon. How else can we explain the statement made by El Ryavc, a staff member of Morse logistics who during the autumn 1994 investigation relates the shipment ordered by the defence ministry. The supplier did not deliver it because it had outstanding accounts with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. He transferred these to Morse and charged them to Morse. Ryavec then says, "This is the sum that Mors has already paid to the seller, which is the manna of 24 million German brands." When the document published in the second part of the book What can you do for us!, we read, first we see that Rijavec said further: "Minister Janša should have the necessary cash, but he did not want to give it." What does that mean? It is officially stated in this country's documents that the arms trade was for 28 million German marks. These official documents also say it's compensation. No cash is mentioned in these official documents, and Janša does not admit that it was a cash transaction until years later, but this is not recorded anywhere. One of the key people of the Ministry of Defence said in 1994 that Minister Janez Janša should have at his disposal 24 million marks of cash. President, I'd like you to calm down a bit. Apparently, he's very nervous and impatient, and that really bothers my performance. Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group, we are sure that the documentation on arms trafficking should also be opened because of the great ignorance of remittances through foreign banks, since the weapons after the independence of Slovenia clearly dealt with criminal associations, and here lies the rabbit in the story of suitcases and transaction accounts opened in foreign banks. Can anyone give me a rational answer to why they had to use bank accounts in foreign banks? Why should money have to be deposited in bank accounts abroad? Why did they take a suitcase full of money to Austria, put the money there in an account, and order it to the seller from there? Why didn't they put cash in an account in Ljubljana Bank here in Slovenia? Also from an account in Ljubljana, money could be credited to this Austrian account and directed from there further. Why did the Slovenian financial system have to be bypassed? Why were they hiding from their own country? Why could the Austrians have known? Nor can we pass here for Slovenian democracy and the rule of law a very sad story about how the prosecution acted at the time when the police and the military intelligence services obtained the numbers of these bank accounts. Police and military intelligence have repeatedly called on the prosecution to obtain information from the Austrian authorities on transactions through these accounts. And then the D.A. and the D.A. Barbara Brezigar did nothing. Mrs Brezigar can explain today hours and hours, as the prosecutor always does and acts professionally, but I doubt that she will be able to explain why she did not ask Austria to do so. Yes, there are clearly visible fingerprints of the arms coalition here, too. And let someone else say that opening up all documents is not our duty. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law. I hope that you will do the same for other Members and show that you respect democracy and the standards that must be in force in every legal country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us states that the purpose of the law is to ensure public interest in order to ensure that the public is as informed as possible about the weapons of territorial defence at a time prior to independence and of all other circumstances of purchase, sale, import, export and transit of arms and military equipment between 1990 and 1994 or arms trafficking. The topic discussed in the bill has also been media resounding for more than 20 years and we have never seen a real epilogue. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been stressing all the time that it would be better for this country to be able to look ahead and not so much into the past. It may not be misunderstood: Of course, things need to be cleared up, but filling newspapers and consciences with this subject is pointless. This subject must not be a real concern for anyone to pursue their political interests, nor must it be a basis for various personal discredits, which are, above all, very difficult to prove because of the secrecy of the material. In a pre-election fight, if I so express ourselves, in which we are unfortunately already in place, because the Government or the representative of the Government is more or less stagnant and struggling to survive, the parties should hit each other with programs, with solutions, with competitions in the preparation of the best proposals to solve certain problems, and certainly not with mutual accounting on topics that have nothing to do with the current situation in which Slovenia is located. Arms trading in the early 1990s does not play a role either in the country's double public debt over the past few years, nor in the fiscal deficit, nor in record unemployment, nor in the increasingly unfriendly business environment for businesses. Slovenians and Slovenians today are only a few more interested in what happened to weapons nearly two decades ago. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we would be very happy to see that, if I say so, the everlasting bone of hunger withdraws once and for all, and we Members of the National Assembly will be able to open discussions on really current and not historical topics. Of course, let the basic position of the Slovenian People's Party Group be clear. There is no obstacle for us to allow access to all documents relating to State arms and to assistance in arms to other republics. In this respect, we stress that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expect that further consideration of this bill will be achieved by supplementing that the archival material is not being opened selectively, but that the entire operation of the Republic of Slovenia with arms will be covered. Lawmakers talk about how the law is positive, how it will help to clear up the past, and how they want to end these issues once and for all. Today's debate and the parliamentary debate on this bill will show whether they are serious and sincere about whether they are willing to accept any additions, whether they are willing to listen to all opinions or whether they are ready for any solution of a broader character, such as the current proposal. Just yesterday, in the Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, we have shown that this Parliament can even be somewhat unified in some basic positions. Are we capable of such sounding and unifying even in this law and in this sensitive subject? Or someone will try to turn the subject into their own cause to the detriment of everyone else. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like to ensure that it does not all just turn out to be some kind of hide-and-seek game, that we do not create some sort of conspiracy atmosphere and a basis for creating many different conspiracy theories. Therefore, if the following amendments are added to the law that will satisfy all parliamentary parties, then the law makes sense, and in this case it will also receive the support of the Slovenian People's Party. However, if it turns out that all together there is only one new manoeuvre or political accounting platform, then we will not be involved in this in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Say good-bye again! To begin with, let me say that the DeSUS Group will support the proposed law. This law has been signed by our parliamentary group or the leader of the parliamentary group in order to fulfil in the declaration the commitment made to bring about an effective legal basis that will open up all those documents that are treated as classified and deal with arms trafficking. The proposal for this law was tabled within the time limit set. However, since it has been proposed a general hearing, it will not be accepted as quickly as we expected or as it was understood, the intensity of all the parliamentary parties to this assembly. We all agreed that all relevant documents, which are still available and which still bear the code of secrecy and which state information on arms and arms trafficking in the early years of our independence, should be opened to the public and that this should have been done long ago. And instead of adopting an effective legal basis for the disclosure of these documents today, it appears that we will have a few hours of unnecessary debate again, since the same topic has been discussed not only once but repeatedly but without a proper epilogue. This will be repeated once again, which, of course, will be nothing more than the words already heard, attempts at accusations and discredits. This, of course, does not make it any different from putting the reputation of the entire Slovenian policy and of the National Assembly even lower than it already has in this political mandate, so we will not participate in this. In short, in our Group of Members we agree that once and for all it is necessary to end political debates, dilemmas and media affairs on arms trafficking. Political debates, individual perceptions of participation in these transactions, and public speculation on the truth and the non-reality of the pro-turbations of arms transactions are without any weight, and it is not possible to draw any legal conclusions if relevant documents are not available for this purpose. That is why we believe that this law should be supported. In further consideration, it is expected that the law will be modified in a way that is feasible and that at the same time fulfils its purpose and adequately safeguarded fundamental constitutional rights of the individual on the one hand and, on the other hand, satisfy the public interest pursued by this law. It is likely that there will be a reflection on the deadline within which state authorities will have to publish electronic records of documents on their websites. We doubt that the proposed 30 or 60-day deadline is feasible. It is a small sea of documents, which will first have to be reviewed in substance, to choose those who fit the content, to be defined by law. The personal data protection phase of those persons for whom the law provides for protection will be followed and the technical preparation of the publication document will be followed. If these documents have been closed for years and years, it is likely that there is no need to jeopardise the integrity of anyone whose name is contained in these documents by means of a speedy deadline for processing documents, nor was he the holder of any public function or employment in the public authorities or, as such, involved in the arms trade. Otherwise, in the next reading, it will make sense to listen to all the relevant authorities which, by law, will be obliged to publish the documents, what is the appropriate time limit for this obligation to be fulfilled effectively and appropriately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has Miro Friday to prepare Gregor Golobič. Excuse me, Mr. Friday. As a proponent, Mr. Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before the debate opens, I would like to point out that, even during the performance, when I represented the position of the Group of Members, I have heard various shouts from the SDS representatives' bench. They mentioned Kokollari, Elektro Maribor. Now I see that they also brought an article to the meeting hall that they wanted to discredit me with some time ago. I would ask you, President, to carefully, carefully monitor their performances, because I do not want this to be the way in which they try to divert any attention from the topic that we have at our disposal today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. This article was not shared in the SDS Group. They cannot do that to others, but if they share it with each other, we cannot influence it, but we will certainly look out for the level and dignity of the debate, which will be very difficult to work with. Thank you. The word has Miro Friday, prepared by Gregor Golobič and followed by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. I also believe that these documents should be opened to the public. People have the right to know what it says and what its background is. Part of these documents or official inscriptions, I would say, were official lies, but a prerequisite for all these affairs that have taken place, for all these books that have been written in these years. It's a lot of confused people's documents. And people and researchers should see on what basis these affairs were created, or on what basis this affair, which some refer to as the mother of all affairs, and how certain affairs occur in Slovenia. I will present here one document, an official signature signed by someone other than Drago Kos. Look, it's nine. 12. 1993, so a few months before John Jansho was dismissed, that was 30. 3. 1994, and this document says that Mr Kos interviewed a taxi driver who told him: "Since 1991, the Ministry of Defence has paid the costs for ships landing in Luka Koper and carrying weapons for Slovenia and for further sale." That's how the cabbie remembers the next ships. Of course, we don't know if a cabbie is a fictitious person or if he's a pseudonym. The taxi driver remembers the next ships. In mid - 1992 — it is said that he does not know the exact date — landed a ship with 20,000 automatic kalashnikov rifles, 10 million bullets, 15,000 Makarov pistols, an unknown number of things, and Igel. Everything except Igel has been resold to Croatia and BiH. He doesn't remember when the ship arrived in Koper, but he remembers the exact number of weapons. His bad memory, the bad memory of the cab driver, continues and says, "The undetected day was landed by the ship Dinah of Honduras, on which were 90 containers of weapons." Well, the cab driver knows exactly how many containers there were. Next: "The undetected day was landed by a ship that brought 5,000 automatic rifles of 5.45 mm calibre, which were sold to Croats." The interesting thing about this ship is that Dafermos held a closed bell in Vienna for two days because the bank in Budapest used by Zvonar did not make the payment in time. Furthermore, part of the cargo was sold from one ship by Draušbaher. Interesting. Ivan Draušbaher was acquitted of all charges in Kranj. There's still supposed to be three weapons containers in Cyprus. Their owner is probably Iskra Commerce. Drago Kos further writes in this official note: "The Ministry of Defence has established a special headquarters in its composition: Janša, Fekonja, Krković, Klisarič, Butara and most likely Gutman, who, based on the experience of the 10-day war in the construction of the so-called manoeuvre structure CZ for three months, has established a military unit of the Slovenian Division. This unit is supposed to be tasked with helping the MORIS. [[Because it's not strong enough compared to the police.]] in establishing by the udbomafia of endangered democracy in Slovenia," this is certainly true. "The unit will be formed by combining the special trust of worthy and verified persons already selected by all Slovene municipalities, which will be called by the group at the level of the Ministry of Defence if necessary [[This will be when the position of Minister Janša is threatened]] "—is said not to be threatened, but to endanger the position of Minister Janša—"and to arm with a weapon that is not described in the Kočevska River." [[...]] [[...]] Interesting. 9. 12. Thus, in 1993 the Udbomafia knew that John Janša would be replaced. Another interesting part of this official mark is then the criminalist Dear Kos. Let's see. Former VIS workers, particularly Eržen, were disappointed by the behaviour of the current government in Slovenia's GNI, a German intelligence service, and provided a lot of data on the work of VIS and Sove. There's a Zefra company in Munich. [[or Cefra]] , through which Owl operates. Most of all, he sells cashier's checks. Did anyone then in 1993, 1994, Mr. Ergen, come forward for the treason of state secrets, as it says here? It's not. Or it's also an injustice for Mr Erzen to be here in this case as a pure fabrication. If this is true, then Eržana must be accused of spying and issuing the young State of the Republic of Slovenia. There are hundreds and hundreds of such documents that will now be opened to the public. I'd like to present here another document of a slightly newer date. 27. 3. 2000 signed by Zdenka Cerar, Attorney General, District Attorney at Celje Milan Birsi, sent this letter: "In the annex I am sending you a letter from the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence..." – follow the numbers – "... of 1. 3. 2000 relating to a criminal case against accused Draušbaher Ivan, Kranjc Viktor and Lipič Ladislav." We know Ladislav Lipich works in the office of the President of the State, Dr. Danil Türk. "The Ministry of Defence wants guidance on what to do with ten thousand German marks seized cash. I shall further defer to you the reply of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia......" – again the number not to mention – "... of 8. 3. 2000 which clearly refers to the same criminal case in which an outstanding complaint is to be lodged. Zdenka Cerar asks that you and the head of the external department, Dusan Roš, study both files and provide me with their first legal opinion and second explanation. Apparently it's an older date, and I'm asking for an answer as soon as possible. With collegiate respect, Zdenka Cerar, Attorney General." Let's see what was the response of Marjan Pogačnik, director of the Crime Service Administration, who had the status of Undersecretary of State. He wrote: "The document, which was seized and not transmitted as an annex to our criminal charges, is no longer in our archives. It must have been destroyed..." – watch out, it was probably destroyed – "in redesigning our offices in 1999, when we rejected a lot of old useless documentation [[...]] [[in this case, the documents referred to in the 1991-1992 period are]] Because of the severe spatial distress." Because of the severe spatial distress, they destroyed the documentation! The case was, of course, outdated, but was not outdated because of Ivan Draušbaher, but it was outdated because of Mr Lipič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has Matjaž Zanoškar, to prepare the Victory of the Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. As has already been said in the position of the DeSUS Group, we will not be particularly involved in this debate, but we believe that under the conditions of democracy nothing should be hidden by a veil of mystery, which the public should not know, unless it is a matter of strict national secrecy. The arms trade is a thing that has aroused and will generate a lot of attention and dust until at least approximately we get to the final epilogue and say more about this arms trade. In the period 1990-1994, I believe that arms trade was necessary for the interests of the State, but that it was also profitable and that there was probably a lot going on in this trade. I'm sure it is, too. By adopting a law that will allow the opening of documents on arms trafficking, it seems to me that we are adopting instruments and mechanisms through which we will give access to bodies that will clear things up to the extent possible and give it our last epilogue. We also know that clearing up arms trade is necessary because it is in those years that some of the leading officials or holders of responsible functions have been discredited in the manner of sacrifice. At that time, the governing policy sacrificed them as sinful goats so that they could cover up any major acts at that time. I'm sure the discreditation of these people was not justified. In most cases, it may also be evident that they have been criminally discredited, removed from their functions, and I know for a certainty that such injustice should be corrected and rehabilitated. Perhaps this instrument that we are adopting today, which we are talking about, will help us to rehabilitate these people in some way and apologize for this unjust act, an act that they had to suffer. Personally, I do not mind opening up archives to open documentary materials, although I know that, as in our practice, in the practice of our country, when it comes to important things, these main sources, the main flows, before anything can be cleared, wiped out, covered up. So I personally think that there will be no great success and great profit in terms of the adoption of this law. It is true, however, that what is yet to be obtained in the archives, which can be obtained in the documentary materials, that on a day to be told what can be said is finally the last, final act and epilogue in this area. I am also skeptical because the law sets certain criteria and also some hands that I do not think are real and will be difficult to implement. Otherwise, it will be a matter of authorities who will have this law as a mechanism for realisation and will have to complete it within a certain period of time and also report on their work to the National Assembly within a certain time. So, with a great deal of skepticism, one and the other, I will definitely support this marriage. I will support this bill because, as I said, it seems to me that this law is a mechanism through which at least what can be done at the moment can be clarified and demonstrated to the public as credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has the victory of the Elinčič noble, to be prepared by John the Wicked.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law itself makes sense and is smart, but it's pretty lame. Finally, it specifies which documents will be opened but does not take into account that any subsequent documents, records, testimony and similar cases may also be opened. In short, it seems that those who come later will be able to wear a seal of confidentiality and will not be open to the public. Interestingly, the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Boljkovac, wrote in his book how he handed over the complete documentation on arms trade to Mr Kučan. Where are these documents? Will this be published, or will it be in a segment that will not be published under this law and have a seal of confidentiality? These unspecified documents are those that may be questionable. What if they arrive in time on light documents given by Croatia, perhaps blackmailing certain political figures today or blackmailing them in the future? Why are such documents not mentioned in the bill as an opportunity to be opened again? The fact is that this is a huge mistake because there was no law immediately after our own self-sustainment war that would decriminalize activities during the period of Slovenian independence. If we'd done it then, it would have been different. Because the fact is that the arms trade took place in Slovenia and also that the Republic of Slovenia traded arms with Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and certainly with another country. The fact is, at that time, the United Nations embargo on the purchase and sale of weapons, including Slovenia, applied. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already given intensive warning and demand to investigate the matter years ago, and we have proposed that the matter be governed by the law, as I mentioned earlier. But no government has ever wanted to hear about it. Perhaps not because the then President, Mr Milan Kučan, did not declare a state of emergency, let alone a state of war! Probably out of fear of opening up any other legal aspects. In the Slovenian National Party, we also proposed that, following the withdrawal of all confidentiality rates from all documents, the Republic of Slovenia or its competent authorities shall immediately initiate proceedings before the International Court of Justice for the former Yugoslavia, so-called ICTY, against holders of political functions, civil servants and other persons who have participated or knew about the arms trade since 1991 and are also listed in the documents. However, no political party to this proposal supported it! We believe that it would make sense for this court to decide whether the conduct of the then authorities in the Republic of Slovenia was in accordance with the legal order or not, because if we think that we did the right and the right thing, then we have nothing to fear. At this time, in these moments and in these debates, everyone is engaged in the business of buying between individuals and between mafias, which is to a large extent even obsolete or is already obsolete and has basically only material consequences if we forget that those who supplied weapons to paramilitary forces in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo are involved in crimes against humanity. But this is a matter of an international court, of what we have proposed. Slovenian political parties have rejected the idea, but it is not said that the court will not only initiate these proceedings. The complete silence applies to the facts published among the documents published by the Journal on its website. This is about the mass movements of Tudjman's private paramilitary units – I speak privately, because this happened before 8 October 1991, when Croatia gained or declared sovereignty, independence and independence, that is to say at a time when Croatia was still part of the SFRJ common country when these private units of Tudžman from the territory of Croatia crossed the Slovenian territory to the southern coast, that is to say the Istrian area with the islands. It should be said that the Slovenian General of the Yugoslav Army, General Chad of the river, because SFRJ was still an existing country, only the Republic of Slovenia stepped out, prevented the arrival of Croatian paramilitary forces and the occupation of the coast. The Defence Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, however, issued documents allowing and allowing these armies to cross Slovenia to occupy Istria and the islands that were never part of any Croatian state. This has been done intensively, and this has been witnessed by published documents, particularly during the war for Slovenia, which makes this high treason activity even more criminal and perverse. At the time of the military fighting in Slovenia with the aggressor, some allowed the passage of soldiers of the aggressor, because Croatia as part of the SFRJ was in fact an aggressor army. Since Slovenia's independence was attacked by the SFRJ, which consisted of the republics and two autonomous provinces, with the exception of the self-conquered and therefore also attacked Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia is also a logical aggressor. But to the Croats, some were sending weapons when they were still part of the SFRY. This has also fuelled the internal so-called civil war in Croatia and then onward, which is an additional problem. The problem is not the acquisition of arms for the Republic of Slovenia, the problem is selling ahead, and it is not selling private goods, because this is largely obsolete, but it is selling because it is based on suspicion that they have participated in crimes against humanity. It is certainly necessary to ask why the Slovenian Minister for Defence and Slovenian Leadership allowed Tuđman to enter Primorska, that is to say in Istria as part of Primorska. In fact, Primorska was part of Slovenian countries when it entered the common state of Yugoslavia in 1918, and since then it has remained a whole country and is still today. Only with independence did the gentlemen somehow dismember her and push her into the hands of the Croats! It should be noted that all the perversion of the publishing activity of organising the movements of the enemy army from the territory of one of the aggressor republics through Slovenia, which was a battlefield, proved to be in all its horror in the first days of fighting in Slovenia, when one of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, who then travelled to that end, saw the tanks T55 marked with Croatian chessboards directed at Istria. So, it is known: The Mountain Kotar are the units of the Yugoslav People's Army, the armies of the State of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, closed at Karlovac and the River, so that Tudjman's paramilitary forces could not penetrate the coast there across. That is why our gentlemen opened the doors of the independent Republic of Slovenia and allowed the aggressor army to cross Slovenia and hit back into the internal conflicts in the former Yugoslavia. Interestingly, I also spoke about this in person with General Chad – this was the general who was willing to hand over the Istrian and Kvarner Islands to the Slovenian armies. He told me that himself, personally, in a personal conversation, and he was waiting on the River of the Slovenian Army. Formally, there would be a dozen Slovenian armies who would formally hand this over to her. Our lords didn't do it! You can laugh, Mr. President of the National Assembly, these are tragic matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u45	Mr. Jelinčič, I listen very carefully to you. Very careful.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I must say that personally with my unit, which was within the 51st district headquarters in Šiška as a special unit, and as the first volunteer in Slovenia, I intended to go to the River, and was imprisoned for the fourth day. I was imprisoned by Mr Bavčar, the most motivated of which were Inspectors Plohl and Košnik, but I was imprisoned by article of the threat to life, security, the sovereignty of the highest representatives of the authorities of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. After the war, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia incarcerated me and I had to defend myself in court why I fought the Yugoslav People's Army. Since this failed in court, the same Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, with the signatures of Školč, Bozič and Šetinca, filed a request for the Slovenian National Party to be deleted from the register of political parties – well, they also failed to do so. One wonders why these commissions of ours have ended up so infamous. The question is, why did Mr Drnovšek send a letter to Rudy Mohet that he had to stop the investigation? I keep a copy of this letter if the gentlemen haven't taken it to me by now, those who have such orders to search the drawers are snorkeling and pick up documents that could be unpleasant to anyone. The fact is, no one asks about anything else. For example, the disappearance of three anti-aircraft trucks — on each truck there were two cannons — that disappeared from the 51st district headquarters TO in Shiska unknown where. One interesting thing – I don't know if it's really connected, but at this headquarters, Mr. Squeakl was one of the main, but in the former Yugoslavia, he was an artillery officer. Funny things happen, they happen, and nobody talks about it. I think those times are very interesting and will have to be clarified. It is therefore necessary to open up all that is involved in our own self-sustaining war. The worst thing is that gentlemen – I don't know why, perhaps because of their own interests, perhaps because they care about the homeland of Slovenia, or because of something else – they made such a deep pact with Croatia that we lost, temporarily lost Istria, the three Quarner Islands, Cres, Krk and Losinj, and that part of Medmur along the left bank of Drava, where also Chakovec is Slovenian territory, that we settled and allowed and agreed to share the former communist authorities in the time of the former Yugoslavia to allow us to cut off one large part of Slovenian territory. That is why it is so much more important that these things are said and that these things are opened up for these matters to be investigated. Everything else is gone. Everything else is gone. I think that's what needs to be done, and here we have to put in books and in papers also historians who will look for and explore everything together. Once again, Slovenia can still get those parts that have been taken away from us by the communists, which were not taken from us in fact by the occupying forces during World War II, because it is interesting that immediately after the dissolution of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Slovenian national territory passed into the hands of the invaders in such a way that the Hungarians did not allow Croatia to take the territory on the left bank of Drava, that the Italians did not leave Croatia to take the Istria and Kvarner Islands, but occupied it because it was part of the Slovenian national territory as part of the Slovenian countries that had the status of countries in the Austrian Empire in the Austrian part of the monarchy. We lost this in 1918 because we could then have done the United Slovenia if we had taken into account Karl's manifesto from 16 October 1918, which allowed Slovenian countries such a common arrangement on a national basis. This was not done by the Austrians, who founded Deutsch-Österreich, and from this grew the Republic of Austria, which is a federal state from the Austrian countries which have the status of countries under the Imperial patent of 1804. The Slovenians could also have this, but Mr Korošec rather sold everything to the Croats through the Vatican and then down south, and the matter closed. Today we have a chance again, but we also have to open it in this area. What's interesting is that what our politicians don't want to talk about is what they don't want to talk about. I know they don't understand, I know our so-called international lawyers don't have any education, or they don't have any education in international law. In order to hear anything, we should go around a little bit and listen and read and learn, especially to speak German, not only speak bad English. I think that these are important things, and if we approach the matter properly, we will be able to resolve something else, but it is certainly necessary to say in this so-called arbitration agreement that there is a subject of dispute there, that the subject of the dispute is not the Bay of Piran, but that the subject of the dispute is a boundary between the Slovenian countries and between Croatia, now. It is important to be aware that when Croatia came to join us in Belgrade and when Pavelić said in Belgrade that Slovenian countries and Croatian countries are joining the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Montenegro into a common country, regent Alexander stood up and said, "No, the Slovenian countries are merging with the Kingdom of Serbia and the Principality of Montenegro, and Croatia is in this form only the spoil of war of Serbia because the Hungarian part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy was the kingdom, the integral part, and you have lost the war and you are our war prey." It also follows that Hungary has not signed an agreement on the recognition of borders between Croatia and Hungary today, because they are precisely aware that the river is still their port, because after the breakup of Yugoslavia, the matter is returned in 1918. If we don't do it and if we don't open it, it won't make any difference. We will support this law, of course we will, but once again I say: the law is hollow, but better a stale marriage than none.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u47	Mr Janez Kikelj has the floor, and the next is Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am convinced that we are still in the law on ensuring free access to documents on arms trafficking, not to some historical teaching that we have witnessed in the last 20 minutes. I myself am thinking of saying something about the law itself or why the law would be good, not about individual documents. The predecessors talked about documents, about events. These documents are supposed to be classified, so I don't know where they got the information, how they got it. In 2011, this year, we celebrated 20 years of independence. Just as much time, 20 years, we are accompanied by affairs, weapons and others. Most people say that the arms affair is the mother of all affairs. Earlier, it was stated why the tycoons would be ashamed and afraid if the arms dealers were not punished. I agree with that. This law allows archives to be opened so that journalists, publicists can enter these archives, not only people who are usually or during the mandate of the previous government without a face, or publicists who say that they are the only ones who know what a national interest is, what national security is, because they created Slovenia alone, and also others. I want the archives to open up to find out the truth, the truth in the documents. I am not saying that the various books written by journalists are not true, but they do not have the basis in the authentic papers they would find in state institutions. I'm not saying I don't believe all the Internet blogs written by former Special Forces, former intelligence officers involved in the arms trade, according to them. All I can say is that if there's only a tenth of what they wrote, really, then, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's a disaster, it's a horror that we created or I'm not going to say that we created it. I didn't create a country like that, I didn't want a country like that. With this law, we will be relatively quick, although some say that perhaps too quickly, we have come to the documents that are needed. There is much talk about our illegal or irregular assistance to Croatia and Bosnia. My dears, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were countries, countries that were attacked by one of the largest armies in Europe at that time. The United Nations embargo prevented them from reading well, so we were obliged to help them. Together we went into the process of self-conquering, together, I can say, we helped – then not definitively, but we began to cut the power of the great dictator Milosevic, who brought many woes to this place. However, this help has been used by individuals to take advantage of our friendly countries. They have maligned the reputation of our country. Recently, there are also indications that these Death Dealers, as I say, have not only helped Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have been internationally recognised, but also third parties to this conflict. It's a death trade. All I'm saying is that we can only be proved by documents that are in the archives of the National Assembly, various ministries, government organisations and so on. Why would I support this marriage? Because, as I pointed out earlier, I want to know the truth. The performance of the opposition transition Democrats said that they always respect the truth. Dr. Gorenak always says, "I will say this for the sake of the viewers, for the sake of television, I must tell the truth," and then directly agrees with my pervasive eyes in the camera, who is delaying the adoption of the law. Mr Gorenak, you have signed an initiative for a general debate, and do not lie to the coalition or the party of the government coalition or this section of the National Assembly as you wish. You can see the paper. We speak the truth, let's be honest, let's look for the truth, let's not lie to the cameras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u49	Please, Mr. Gorenak? [[advertising from the hall]] Did you mention him? I didn't hear it, really. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, Dr. Gorenak, you haven't discussed this – only if I give you a replica given that you presented your opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you so much for understanding. In my vocabulary, the word "forgive" has always been, is and will be. As far as the presentation of opinions is concerned, it is ours, but as far as the other matters are concerned, it is clear: the law is not necessary, you have keys, you have documents, you have documents, you are 14 years old, plus 3 years is 17. You have the keys today, you have the right persons today who can do this without law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u51	Mr Franco Juri has the floor to prepare Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am glad that we are largely united in supporting this law. The law is strictly formally needed for us to use this key and to open the archives in a legal way. We are aware that we will not discover anything that would have direct effects, because it is an alleged crime that has already fallen under the law and therefore has no practical effect. However, it is important to find out what was really going on, because this mantra, this story with weapons affairs, has been drawing from the very beginning and has had enormous implications and great effects in destroying the work of the national economy. Today we have heard a lot of dissertations and also a lot of speculations about the historical opportunities that we are about to lose, but I would like to quote Dr. Slavoj Žižka, who said yesterday: "Look, those who then actually took the most advantage of the then Slovenia, the situation, took over the property of this country, and it all started with the arms affairs, then disappeared, acted as the greatest takunas, and today they come back and represent themselves as saviors or saviors, as advocates of the country and the country at a time when this country would need less takunas, less weapons affairs and more honesty and work." Unfortunately, today's debate will also be marred by this anxiety, which is felt in particular in the types of Slovenian Democratic Party, because you want or do not want to talk about arms affairs, all indications and all the evidence, all the books, all the documentation that is already known, prove that the biggest protagonists of such affairs were from this party. But nervousness is also understandable because of what is happening now in the Austrian prosecutor's office, given the information that comes about connections, about the suspicions of bribery in the Patria affair. And you know, some logical thread, some logical link between this behavior, which marks the largest party of the opposition, and then the action, that is, the exploitation of the historical moment when a country arises, for someone to enrich and then continue their political and economic path to extreme tycunization – that is unfortunately a fact that still burdens us with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we are not looking here, it is not a witch hunt, but we are only looking for the path to some truths that will be catarzically positive for the country, for politics, for political elite, when the truth will be revealed on the table, when it will be known what some specialists in the village of Gradin did at the border with Croatia in Istria at night, when they pulled various materials and suitcases up and down. I have heard of this quite a few testimonies now in the field, when people saw some of the chief invaders of those times with their own eyes. Once we know what was going on at the time, we'll all be more relaxed. So from this point of view, I support this law. I also support the initiative of my colleague Slapnik, and I hope that this debate will continue without any attempt at personal discrediting of the initiators of this law. We all support the law. In fact, we could end this and vote later and then discuss it a second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u53	Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would ask Mr. Gorenak if he could wait. I will give him one more chance to answer the question he had previously received regarding his signature to the general debate request. Under point 6, you signed yourself, Mr Gorenak, and thus requested a general discussion, a first reading, but at the presentation of your position you actually will be your statement, I did not hear, calling it a lie. [[...]] You have indicated that we have bypassed the possibility that, after a rapid procedure, we may have reached an adoption or a second reading of the law in June, while stating that we have proposed and requested today's first hearing. Since we are not, the matter will obviously serve as another one of your additional lies in this House. I would like to explain why we could not have proposed, because this is a bill sent by the Member, to propose an urgent or urgent procedure – simply because it does not allow us to do so. We know who may be proposing urgent or rapid procedures, and this is the only reason that we have not proposed the law after this procedure. Otherwise, we are keenly and extremely interested in being accepted as quickly as possible. We believe that it can already be adopted in September of this year, at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u55	Mr Robert Hrovat has the word, only Bevk is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. What are we doing with this law? Actually, we're doing an unnecessary job. Earlier, a colleague named Juri said that this law was the key to getting these documents to show up or open up. That's not true. That's not true! At this point, those who are with you in the coalition, the President of the National Assembly, Minister Jelusic, Minister Kresal, have the opportunity to open all these documents, to withdraw the level of confidentiality. Not now, we could have done that at the beginning of the term. Not only that — we could have done this 14 years ago! They didn't. However, the reason for my concern is clear — in what my colleague Gorenak was talking about earlier. That tree must grow. This tree must grow at all costs and as long as possible. The fact is, I'm in favour of all these documents being opened up to see what, what, and how it was. It is also true that all the affairs that occur in Slovenia and eventually touch our customers or, in any way indirect, have a similar scenario. First it's public discredit, then media liquidation, media lynching, and the goal is achieved. Then it happens that these major actors who talk about these affairs are going to well-paid jobs. I'll tell you. For example, Mr Rob and Mr Squeakl have excellent salaries in Europe. And why? This was the prize for all the crap that took place in the previous term around the Patria affair. Look, the outpouring of Patria's affair, to tell that I'm actually right – what's going on? Today, the Attorney General has made a statement that she will resign from the post of Attorney General in the Patria affair. Why is that? Because she felt it was better to back off and honorably lose everything she was preparing for this affair. But the fact is, that's vile and, in my opinion, very transparent. Why can I talk about these things out loud? Because, in my previous term, I was Vice-President of the Civicle Commission of Inquiry, which I believe you all know is very meticulous, very precise and consistent. And one of those that we had on the commission of inquiry was also the arms trade in 1990-1994. We've hired two experts to review all the documentation that's in the State Assembly in the basement. All the paperwork! I went to see for myself, believe me, not once. I've studied the matter, and I've come to the conclusion that there's really nothing in these documents that would burden any one of the ones you're pointing your finger at. The fact is that the two experts proposed by Mr Cwickle finally prepared a report, which was empty and empty. There was nothing in it, nothing. And I'm really glad that we're finally going to get this fog out of all of these debates and that it shows what was actually true. There's a lot of talk and writing about alleged arms trafficking, cash and so on. Yes, of course, we were under the embargo! That's clear, because that's what the papers say! We were under the embargo. How else could we buy weapons? You know what bothers me the most is that in the position of the group or in the name of the proposer, someone speaks, at least 23 times I count, "I should". "Let's have" money to trade weapons and so on, this and this witness said "we should," "we should." Listen, it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... Not "we should" – it is! Here's to this pay phone, somebody say it's true, if he's so sure. And so we go back to public discredit, then the media lynching, and finally we're having an affair in the palm of our hand, which is very, very, very, very clear, as I said before. I like that in part you also wrote down your request to reveal the facts about the weapons of the Republic of Slovenia's Territorial Defence and the conduct of the then republican authorities and the conduct of the Yugoslav People's Army in 1990. You see, this is where I agree. I say this is the mother of all affairs, not the sale and purchase of weapons. This, the treachery of Slovenia. This is a compilation of documents, documents that burden a lot of people. And I'm glad you put this on demand to open all this documentation. The fact is, there are burdensome things here. Why? Because no one responded when she got out. And that clearly indicates what time it is. Well, one more time. The fact is, there was a arms trade, legal and illegal, because we were under the embargo. That's a fact. These documents, which I have seen and which have been prepared by experts in the previous term, clearly show that they are nothing at the end of the line. So much sold, so much paid, there's nothing in the end. You can laugh, but the fact is, once the documents are available to people, they'll see. But what bothers me most is those books that were written about these documents. There's a lot of "we should" in these books, too. It says very rarely, "I'm sure," most of the time, like I said, "I should." So, we have a marriage on the table. We will support him, too, personally, but I am in favour of opening up everything, but really everything about weapons – buying, selling, anything. And not just until 1994, I'd say completely by last year or this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u57	Mr. Franco Yuri, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you. Only a short replica would be given to a fellow Croat. Look, we all expected the ministries to open these archives. We have not achieved this because we are Members and our tools can be the law. We cannot force the declarations or the conclusions of the committees. I have also repeatedly disputed with the Secretary of Defense on other subjects, but I cannot force them. As a Member, you as a Member can vote on this bill today. And there's no going back with this marriage. That's why it makes sense to accept it. You showed one book, you could show me another. There are a lot of books that have not been responded to, on your part, on the other hand. This is Igor Bavčar's book, I think the co-author – yes, very talkative, and this is one of the ones that Žižek defined yesterday as former independents who then became liberal Democrats. All of a sudden, they're repeating themselves. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u59	Mr. Tadej Slapnik as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In one part, I would like to reply further to Mr Hrvat. Of course, I first addressed the parliamentary initiative to both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent minister and invited her to withdraw all these levels of confidentiality, but I received a negative response, not only in principle negative, but by giving a precise explanation of all the relevant laws which, in her opinion, make it impossible for ministers to do so. And because of that, if you remember, at the extraordinary session of May we accepted a declaration that we would do so with the law. And that's why we're dealing with him today. As for the additional documents that you think would be necessary in order to be mentioned in this law – I am very pleased to invite you, I have also told Mr Jelinčič that concrete proposals should be made earlier. As part of the second reading, the draft law can be supplemented by all additional documents that may not have been included. I would not agree, however, to extend the period until yesterday or today, to the right period of opening all archives. Because I am sure that in this case this law will not be able to be passed this year, because we will round up practically all the weapons of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the purpose of the law is not to open an archive relating to the armament of the Republic of Slovenia, but to documents relating to illegal arms trade.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u61	Mr Bevk has the word, the next is Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! If the arms trade is indeed the mother of all affairs in Slovenia, then it is right to open access to all documents relating to this trade. In this regard, on 12 April 2011, the National Assembly adopted a special declaration on the withdrawal of confidentiality from all documents of the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia relating to arms trade and equipment for the purposes of the Republic of Slovenia and assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina during the period 1990-1994. The National Assembly points out in the declaration that "the repeated political debate on arms trafficking, without at the same time allowing the public free access to these documents and thus an objective assessment of the decisions and actual behaviour of the then public officials and individuals, creates the basis for continuous mutual accusations of the involvement, responsibility and guilt of political actors in arms trafficking". The declaration further states: "In order to completely overcome such behaviour in the future, the National Assembly assesses that it would be appropriate to adopt a law which, taking into account the political interests of the State and ensuring the protection of personal data and respect for the dignity of the individual, will allow the public free access to documents on arms trafficking, thus allowing the disclosure of facts and overcoming unbiased mutual accusations of political discredit." The Declaration was adopted on 12 April 2011 in the National Assembly, as I said. The declaration was voted against by 48 Members and only one Member, but it is true that 76 Members and Members were present and that most of the colleagues and colleagues from the largest opposition party abstained. The law is therefore the next step in clearing up the arms trade. This law will set up a kind of public study library to read these documents, but that will not be enough. There will also be a need for an epilogue in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, where we will politically and morally condemn these acts, if it is found that it is indeed an illicit arms trade and the most repugnant act, that is war profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u63	Mr Franci Kek has the floor, Mr Janko Weber is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. It's really inappropriate to wonder why this marriage is, if everything is already open. As Tadej Slapnik once said, he asked the Government and the Ministry of Defence, Minister Jelusic, to open the archives and she did not want to do so. Why not? Why doesn't Minister Jelusic do it? Perhaps the Chief of General Staff, Aloyz Steiner, may know the answer, perhaps Mr Jerovšek, who is more friendly with these people, even more than anyone in the coalition. It is necessary to adopt a law so that there are no such and similar obstacles. Many times in the past have come very far, never finished. For example, in 1994 the introduction of the trade-related operational processing was opened at WOMO and I will read some things from this document. This is from 1994, the military intelligence service of the Ministry of Defense. "When Mr Janša and Mr Kacin replaced the Ministers, the minutes were drawn up on the basis of which, only after a certain period, four months later, they began to identify, on the basis of information gathered and material evidence, that this did not cover extra-budgetary cash payment transactions which were linked to the arms trade. In this regard, no archives have been dedicated to clear up the business or were weak. The 1994 operational reports of the Sova show that there is a reasonable suspicion that the officials of the Ministry of Defence Ludvik Zvonar and Ivan Črnkovic engaged in illegal activities and participated in the arms trade, which resulted in their being processed by foreign intelligence services." Ivan Črnkovič – in 1994 he participated in the arms trade with Patrio, owner of Rotis. "After May 1994, material evidence and statements and testimony were obtained from officials of the 6th Administration that the arms trade was taking place, that cash payments were made in foreign currencies for arms sold and that operatives were involved in this in part, and some individuals were in charge of all matters. Most of the evidence, such as invoices, notices and other letters, was destroyed or handed down to the Kočevská Reka or Minister Janša. According to individual claims, the remainder of the money from the sale of weapons which had not been used in 1993 was handed over to Minister Janša. With regard to the funds spent and the sale of weapons, there is no relevant record at the Ministry of Defence, or it was not handed over at the time of the exchange of ministers at work in 1994, which also made it difficult to clarify certain transactions or purchases, in particular during the last period from May to the end of 1994. The introduction of operational processing is open due to reasonable suspicion that arms trade has been taking place and individuals have materially taken advantage of the fact that certain illegal transactions have been carried out and the irrational spending of financial resources, that it has been unlawfully destroyed and alienated... " [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u65	Mr Janko Weber has the floor. Rudolf Petan will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. It is precisely because of the debates and seductions that are taking place, not least today, and all the time we have discussed this issue in Slovenia that it is very necessary for these documents to be presented to the public or for the public to have access to these documents. In your debate, Mr Robert Hrovat, you have also offered a chamber that is supposed to tell the whole truth about this event, but at the same time obviously conscious or perhaps unaware that no one has responded to this document. Let me tell you that colleague Miran Potrč has very clearly denied all the particulars that have been in this Chamber and relate to it, and this document on his particulars is also publicly available and can be obtained. This is just one example of trying to manipulate the public about this arms trade. So I think that when this law is passed, it will also allow all those who did their work at the time, either on their own, or on their own, or on their own, or on their own, and they're just silently monitoring or driving trucks with the contents of weapons, including money, and sometimes you can't even believe when they try to explain the amount of money that was going on in these trucks. Perhaps, then, someone will be able to obtain a copy of the document that will show what he was carrying, what he saw at the time, what amount of money he had seen, and what amount of weapons he had. I think that this can really help to make it less and less misleading and overlapping some events over and over again, which, of course, encourages again and again some thinking and finding out what was, what was not, and so on. So I will also support this law on free access to arms trade documents in 1990-1994. I am convinced, however, that a number of those documents will also be given some incentive to hand over this document to the relevant authorities to supplement this collection, because I am sure that some of these documents are already taken, hidden, destroyed and so on during this period. So that, in my opinion, a lot of people will take an interest in looking into these documents, and if someone is going to complete this documentation and thereby finally help us get a full view, I think we are going to solve one of the outstanding issues that we are talking about all the time. I think it would be really better if we close this chapter once and start talking after we clear this up, about other extremely important issues that are important for the future of Slovenia, including the Slovenians as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u67	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, and Anton Kampush will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Let me start by saying that I'm going to support this law, that all the archives should be opened, not just A, B, C, D, but the rest. I'll put it a little differently. This point speaks of free access to arms trade documents between 1990 and 1994. Why was it necessary to trade weapons during that period? I would put the matter in the time frame and in the context of cause-effects. For a cut date, I'd set it on May 15, 1990. What happened then? At that time, the commander of the Republic Staff of the Territorial Defence of Slovenia issued an order on the disarmament of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say the disarming of the army, which he himself commanded. Of course, in cooperation with the then Yugoslav People's Army and with the silent assistance of those bodies that were already formed in Slovenia after the April 1990 elections. Therefore, the mother of all arms trafficking is not the mother of all arms trafficking, but the disarmament of the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia in 1990. If you allow me to paraphrase my fellow Member, Gorenak, who spoke of the tree of life, I would say that the arms affair is the tree of life of those who disarmed Slovenia and they always draw it to the plan when it seems right. And even now, this affair is very recent. Why now? Because we have a catastrophic economic situation, a catastrophic financial situation. And now we need to pull this affair, this tree of life of those who disarmed Slovenia, so that we can deal with "if," "would be", "in an undefined place", "in an undefined place with an undefined person", "undefined amount". We already know that. But there wouldn't be any trade if there wasn't disarmament. And what was the situation on the cut date I set on May 15, 1990? By 15 May 1990, the territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia possessed so many infantry weapons with appropriate ammunition kits that it could fully equip some 100,000 soldiers, plus anti-aircraft weapons and some other anti-aircraft weapons. But this disarmament took between 80 and 90 percent of all weapons from the Territorial Defense. I can commend myself for coming from the congregation, and I also cooperated that our congregation did not give up arms. It could not be removed, despite the fact that the municipal authorities were formed just the day before. We've kept the weapons. That's what you say you could have done if you wanted to. But in Slovenia, since the exchange of power was immediately after the elections, most of those who had access to these decisions preferred to see that the weapons of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, which we paid the citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the then Yugoslavia, were taken over by the Yugoslav People's Army rather than by the newly created country. And because of the war, it was necessary to buy weapons. But Slovenia was still under the embargo, and then what happened was happening. And now that we're at the archives by 1994, I'd say it would be better if there were more. He may later have appeared or have been issued a document that speaks of trade. I'm also interested in who got a share in this. I'm especially interested in who brought those weapons to the Maribor airport. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia knew nothing about this at the time, neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the Ministry of Defence. I'm just wondering who brought those weapons to the Maribor airport. Who paid for it? What money? Who thought of getting oiled with that sale? I'm also wondering what would happen, but maybe some document later. In addition, there is much talk about these archives to be opened. It has already been said that if the Minister of Defence wanted to open those basement archives that she has at the Ministry, she could take the key, set up an appropriate procedure and the archives would have been open long ago. But apparently it's not working. I don't know why he's hiding. I don't know why he's hiding. We could have long ago adopted a decision by the National Assembly, which has the power to enable the Minister to do so. The archives are probably somewhere else. I just gave one case so I don't waste too much time. See if it's interesting? We even had a referendum on archives, whatever they were, because you, who are always talking about this arms trade, wanted to pass the law to close the archives. You must have been remembered by the people that the archives should be opened. And you won't tell us that we were afraid that the archives would open up, that we were against it. No! No! We were for the archives to open and for the marriage to remain the way it was, and thank God the law fell, how much, 80 to 20, that people knew. So don't tell us we're afraid of opening archives! We even helped with the archive referendum, and we even demanded that this referendum be able to open the archives. And now you're telling us that we want to close the archives. Well, that's funny. Well, that's ridiculous! Archives are archives, archives open, them, those. Also in those archives that the referendum was about, there may be some information, some document that speaks of that trade you are talking about, about that tree of life of those who disarmed Slovenia. I'm sure you do! And it certainly wouldn't hurt if all the archives were open, and that's why I said at the outset that it's a shame that this law only talks about opening up archives from 1990 to 1994. Why don't we do, I don't know, today? Why are you afraid? Then what's in 1995 and 1996? And then you tell us that we're afraid this will open up. We're telling you: for God's sake, let me open the archives. And you're telling us that we're afraid to open up the archives, and what you say to this page when it comes to archives. That's what one colleague said before, and I'm not going to call him that he won't have to replicate, so he won't have to deal with it. I'll finish. I'll support this marriage, no problem, no problem. As I said, it would be nice, maybe with some kind of amendment, we can resolve that those years that this refers to will be more than 1994 – even 1995, 1996, and all the archives, not only as I said at the beginning, A, B, C and D, but also E, F, G, those that you didn't give us to clear up once. To conclude, I will paraphrase my colleague once again: this arms affair, which continues to drag on, is the tree of life of those who disarmed Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u69	Mr. Anton Kampush has the word, the next one will be mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u70	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support the law because it has to be supported, even though I am surprised that the words about these affairs and these periods continue to flow in Slovenia. It is true, however, that weapons were traded in Slovenia. It was traded in two ways, once legally, because Slovenia was in such a state and in such a state of distress, and second, of course, it was traded illegally, this must already be recognised. It was probably also traded for its pocket or for more pockets, and if there is ever a time, it is now an extreme or last time to clear up matters about these affairs. But at this point, three points that prove the situation, then and later, then and now are important to me. I'm most fascinated by written books, a large number of books. A large number of books, which, of course, make it clear to me who was involved, when this was happening, about how much was cashed, where the money went, which money was deceived, which money was not misled, and so on. So, these are open questions, and anyone who is relatively real and who has read some of these books — because it is not just one, it is not just one — could, in his mind, define himself as a arms dealer. Personally, these books are exact, relatively serious to me, and no one can convince me that there was no illegal arms trafficking in Slovenia. I am surprised, however, that, as we are discussing this subject, my colleagues say: what is it, because the debate on this issue is not necessary, we would rather talk about the economic crisis, let us leave it now and so on. That's the first point for me. So, written books that say a lot – number one. But the second thing that got me even more stabbed and in general led me to the point that from now on, I have had a lot of contacts with people who have been seriously searching after the information available at the time – I have had the opportunity to speak to Mr Mohet myself. Colleagues, if you start to talk about what happened to those who were seriously looking into things, what threats were made, how far those threats went and by what and by whom everything was threatened — with this information, with these threats, which were actually made, you have to be apprehensive. I expected that this could only happen in America, but now I see that this is also happening in Slovenia. The third item I wanted to talk to you about today is the next. A while ago we had a TV show like you're going down here?This is what it was called in Ljubljana. Yeah, experts say guns are like drugs. Yeah, weapons are like drugs. That means once you're with me, you're always there. In this regard, look at the little series of affairs and how they have been happening over the past 20 years. That these affairs never come to an epilogue, to a final state, but there's something incredible. In other countries, they take these matters seriously, which are not only debates, but also serious debates in state authorities and law enforcement authorities, and we wave our hand and say: "This is nothing." But it is true that in 20 years now it is time for the files not to open once, but to close. After 20 years, it's time for the files to be closed and once they get the epilogue, even though I'm skeptical that the epilogue will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u71	The word has magic. Branko Grims, next will be Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u72	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Today we are talking about the law on the provision of free access to documents on arms trafficking in 1990-1994, this is also true for the whole year 1990, if I come from the title. That's why I have to say that I'm surprised that all of you, when you're so easily supporting this law, which is so obviously flawed, because where it's talking about materials, there is a lack of material about the most shameful, most repulsive arms trade we've ever witnessed in this period. Which was the most shameful and repulsive arms trade? The most shameful, most criminal, the most repulsive arms trade was allowing the disarmament of the Slovenian territorial defence, because it was a trade with its own homeland, and shame that all those involved in the trade would stand with their hands in their pocket, wait for days, abandon the actions they were obliged to do under the then legislation and under their political responsibility, and thus cause the state of Slovenia to be disarmed. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the criminal, shameful, discarded arms trade, and this is what you lack in marriage. Because without this most discarded arms trade, none of the other things that are listed here would have happened at all! In fact, we are not speaking today, when this deficit, the apparent lack of this law of yours is sobbing into the sky, so much so about what is happening at the time. We are primarily talking about the most disgusting flossule that has recently been given such a vast domestic right and that the transition left repeats it to unconsciousness through its media lovers: they are all the same. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not all the same, we have never been and we will never be in politics! And thank God that's true, because that's what democracy is all about. One of them stood with their hands in his pocket, allowed the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence, and by doing so they carried out the most repulsive form of arms trade in the history of Slovenia, because they traded with their own homeland, and the others then tried to prepare Slovenia to be armed at least for force, at least for force, for a struggle that was evident, which was already brewing on the outskirts of Slovenia. And because Slovenia was ready, then there were no terrible consequences like they were, say, in Bosnia. And if I mention Bosnia, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you, when you speak so many times about unity, that the defence budget has gone, I remember well, which then allowed for the purchase of arms at all, then through the first democratic assembly, for a single majority vote, only one vote, and that at the same time a declaration on the disarmament of Slovenia has been signed, which demanded the disarmament of everything, in order to give up even what was not possible when it was trading with its own country to pick up the South. In Bosnia, exactly the same scenario was successful, and that's why they had such a tragedy there, so many dead, because they weren't ready for the fight. That's the reality of the world, you're a rat, a pair of bellums, because the Romans already knew that. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I do not personally approve of this law in any way, because there is a lack of that material on the most discarded arms trade, on allowing the disarmament of Slovenia TO because it is trading with its own country! That's missing, and you know exactly why. Because you also know who's responsible for this, most of all. One of those who, in silence at the time, made this situation possible did not participate in the handover of business at the Ministry of the Interior, where he was still under the name of the Secretariat, was recently awarded the award of independence. And let someone else tell me that this is not a mockery of all those who have sincerely worked for Slovenian independence. Some have paid the highest price for this, ladies and gentlemen, and if not for at least some of them then tried and, to the best of their ability, obtained at least a minimum amount of weapons, including with the help of some Western allies, that we were not completely naked and barefoot when the South Army attacked us under the mark of the Red Star, this tax would be incomparably higher. But that we are not all the same, and how such stories usually end, let me make another argument, which is also touched by one part of what is happening in this House, and which, of course, is far from missing in the law, you know why. It was recently carried out as an unconstitutional – obviously unconstitutional – since this is now the Constitutional Court’s judgment — an act that tried to resolve me as chairman of the 8x8 case, because I seized the matter on the right hand side because I had not been aware of it before, because I had not known these things at all, he saw that he was the only one who had clearly violated European standards, for which I had immediately found the appropriate documentation, Mr Milan M. Squikel, who had put as an expert in this arms case the head of the competing project, which was obviously an obvious conflict of interest, which according to European standards was a corruptive act. So you, with my obvious unconstitutional resolution, wanted to cover up corruption – the best example of how it works and what values your coalition is following. And that the court has given me the right, I quote two sentences, which are very important for this investigation as well, for these events that we are talking about today, because they have also been the subject of parliamentary investigations. "The core of the parliamentary investigation would have been completely elucidated if, in practice, such investigations could not have been conducted in the direction resulting from the act of designation, or if, due to the abuse of the rights of a certain part of the members of the commission of inquiry, it could not have been completed within a reasonable time." I hope you are aware that these words are very close to you by the Constitutional Court, which is ideologically close to you by most members, and also to you, Mr Slapnik, as a proposal for today's law. And then I continue to quote again the Constitutional Court's decision: "Unquestionably, the repeated, continuous and systematic elimination of certain members of the Commission of Inquiry under Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, with a view to obstructing the work of the Commission, would lead to longer delays in the work of the parliamentary commission, perhaps even for the entire time to end its term of office." Because that was actually your goal. Because you know that the only shameful, criminal, discarded arms trade has been allowing the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence, precisely that trade because it was a shameful trade with its own homeland, which is missing in this law, and that this story is being dragged down to this day because it is not wanted to see where its beginning is. This is what is missing in this law, this is its fundamental flaw, and therefore this law is already condemned in advance that it will not allow the end of this story, because we do not do things at its beginning, we do not go where it really was a crime. It was treason, it was abandonment because the crimes were even under the criminal code of that time! But that's not in your marriage, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Why? Why? And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, never say they're all the same. Or even resort to what you have done with the media, when I have asked you to resign, which in a normal country would be perfectly self-evident, since the Constitutional Court has fully judged me in favour of the SDS, all of us proposing this constitutional judgment, and has made clear what you think of your doing. And you said no, because that's what they did at the school. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen, but it's not true here! You're lying again. For Mr Milan M. Cwickl has been asked several times to explain, even in writing, his conflict of interest. The proposal for his release was long — how much, with an explanation? - Nine pages, but in my case there was no one line of explanation, and by the way, three times you replaced the oral explanation in just a few hours. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Because of your methods, that first affair never comes to an end because you want to build one fairy tale with another, a third, and deceive the public. And you've been hit by a lot of people so far. I hope that now, however, the eyes will open because the difference is in values, in actions and, if we compare the fastest development of Slovenia in the last mandate and the greatest setback in this mandate, even in the achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u73	Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'll read to Mr Grimes what I'm sure he is. But that he could have had this performance, he turned the whole purpose of the law upside down and discussed in particular this part in order to make key documents related to the 15th. 5. 1990, this law did not cover. I will read that the law provides that, irrespective of the level of secrecy, the degree of secrecy shall be withdrawn, or that the confidentiality of the data shall be withdrawn from all documents relating to the purchase, sale, import, export and transit of arms and military equipment or arms trade at the time of 15. 5. 1990, Mr Grimes, it is said from the order to hand over weapons to JLA warehouse in 1990, to 29. 3. 1994. Now, once again, I have further reason to believe that any additional documents during this time period for which anyone would like to enter into the law — let it be suggested — we will be very happy to include them in the bill. However, in the second part, I would not have allowed myself to claim that the Constitutional Court, at the last ruling, had not ruled on the constitutionality of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, but on the constitutionality of the actions of individual members of the Commission of Inquiry, as stated by Mr Grims. We know that the Constitutional Court has ruled that the regional law is inconsistent with the Constitution. And all the Members, so your colleagues who started this work with Mr Squill a year ago and then continued with Mr Anderlic, acted in accordance with this law and in accordance with the rules of procedure in force. However, if the law in force is inconsistent with the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court has ruled, then it is the task of the National Assembly to rectify this law, and I believe it will. And if you were then calling on us Members who, in accordance with this law and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, have acted, to resign, you have again forgotten your colleagues, including Mr Hroat, whom you are now talking to, Mr Grims, who started this practice years ago. So I think in this part I've explained, Mr Grimes, that your allegations were not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u75	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. The next one would be Guido Kres. He's not here. Blackbell. He's not here. Brada Roast. She's not here. Next up is Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have a weak law before us, a very weak law, because it is very selective about documents that are supposed to be opened, but I will support it, because I know that this is the best form in spite of everything to bind the mouth and insinuations that are being spread this time by the proponents, Mr Slapnik specifically. In fact, I was on Moget's investigation committee on weapons. Mr Moge had great goals of revealing which person, and then he was the only chairman of the investigative commission that did not draw up the final report. After that, it appeared to be for completely different purposes. And it's a similar situation now. However, the problem is that not all documents are actually covered. At least Kachin’s trade in Israel may need to be covered in the coming period, for we know how disastrous it has had for human life as well. And the other is, look, when they're listing the documents here, what we're going to get. When I was in Moget's investigative commission, we also dealt with the documents of the State Assembly investigative commission, the Moget Commission, relating to the weapons in the Ložnica warehouse. Marjan Strehar, then commander of the Territorial Defence in Slovenian Bistrica, testified. And until then, I thought we had all the documents in the bedroom in front of us. Then Mr Slapnik in Bistrica organised a defamatory conference in April about this Strehar, who lied there at all times and waved with original documents from the Bedroom, which he defrauded as commander of the Territorial Defence. Taisti is, of course, quoted in this book as having been quick to follow the instructions on the disarmament of the Territorial Defence on 17 May in Slovenia. And for this reason this matter is already doomed to failure or will not succeed you, for then we should appoint a credible Member. And Mr Slapnik, I must say, when Mr Juri said that personal discredits would not go away, he was a person who went through personal discredits. He has spread pure lies in Slovenska Bistrica, and he is not credible – a member in affairs, he is working with those who have been closed, Mr Jagrom and Albanian Kokollari, and he is mediating them for work from the state budget. This is in the newspapers, and after that, Mr Slapnik has not even come to the Defence Committee since then, even though he is a member. At times, when the Defence Committee is in office, it is intended that a defamatory conference should be convened on the ground and used by those who wave stolen documents on television. And on the basis of such documentation, this Member should then work out its conclusions. See, as much as possible should be put on the table, as much as possible, and I am glad that Mr Slapnik has become involved in all these affairs, with some of which we have also discovered through the newspaper, have been informed, and refer to my place, Slovenska Bistrica, although he is from Slovenian Konjice. Colleagues of the Coalition, why didn't you give a credible MP? Why didn't you give it up? An MP who's involved in affairs where the police are closing people down, of course, had to do it the best way to get in trouble when the police are probably investigating you, at least interrogating you, telling others, if you're getting a thief. [[...]] [[...]] And this is the method of Mr Slapnik and his directorship, his colleagues from Slovenia Bistrica. Pure lies! Because I did give a service, a lot of weapons from the Slovenian Bistrica, at least three wagons, made a kit organised by Mr Slapnik and today tried to prove with stolen documents that there were not so many weapons. Once again, I ask Mr Slapnik, where your colleagues put those weapons, because they were there, it has been proven that it was and that it was not taken back then, as your colleagues tried on television and in newspapers to convince them. Now it's proven that you've all lied together. You've been dealing with these, and with Albanians who commit crime in Slovenia, obviously. These are your associates, and on such grounds you try to malign and discredit people who have liberated Slovenia on such grounds. And with the people who, such as the document in here, impromptuly carried out the order to disarm the Slovenian territorial defence at that location. These are your principles, and you went into this business. Shame on you to try to malign and discredit others with lies. I have not experienced in 15 years any Member with such lies in such a slanderous way would go into some kind of action and suppose that he would promote himself. People know to the bottom that for one euro in my life I have not broken the law and that what I am saying is the truth. And you use liars. And that's why the problem with this law, when we don't know what you've framed us for, we don't know what you've planted in this law, because there's material evidence on that microlocation that whoever witnessed before the investigative commission was pointing original documents at your slanderous press conference. So you have documents that were stolen and arranged. Stolen and modified. And with such documents you try to malign the invaders and others in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u77	Mr. Tadej Slapnik as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, do you really think that if those things that you've just been waving with, after three months of dealing with your President's weapons affairs and your political parties that you've then prepared to find one of those slanders after three months, you've invented it that you're waving here today. You needed three months. Do you think if I had any of this behind me, I'd be hoping to get my head on the biggest opposition party if I had a bad conscience? Exactly because I don't have it, Mr Jerovšek, because I have a good conscience, I was hoping for it. Also because no one can tell me that in 1991 I had any effect on the fact that someone disarmed Slovenia. That's why I was hoping to do it. Because I haven't even been a senior. And as for today's statements, Mr Jerovšek, who were not merely an excuse for the media article, I deny the complete pamphlet I denied today. You are a large part of these claims here today yourself, and you will therefore have to defend yourself in court. There you'll have to prove what you said today. In Slovenian Bistrica, I have given you an invitation: come and before the veterans of the war for Slovenia – not only Mr Strehar, but a large majority of the others were present – say what you said as President of the Defence Committee in the National Assembly. You didn't come. You were making excuses. These war veterans said they were ashamed that you were their messenger. That's what they said. And then you're in a lot of articles, and I don't know which media you've been shaking your typical ones into, and you've been muddying them. Shame on you. I will conclude this part of the debate in this part. However, once again, I would like to point out that any documents that may be added to this law are possible to be proposed, and I call on you to submit them as part of the second reading, and we will add them. We don't want to hide anything. However, as the first to be signed under the law, I will not agree that you will extend this law to this day according to the pattern of what has already been seen. You were talking about, I don't know, buying Mr. Kacin. What does that have to do with anything? If he does, then write a separate law and file it. Don't mix pears and apples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u79	Mr. Jerovšek, you don't have time for a replica. Mr. Blackach, what do you want? Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr President, given that the Group of Members is running out of time to discuss this issue, I believe that at the conclusion of the debate, it is likely that that provision of the Rules of Procedure which discusses the sharing of time will be applied and we will be able to make additional points in this context. Nevertheless, all we have to say is that this so-called new policy of Zareso has been well worked out and that it dismays the entire political space not only in this national assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u81	What's your proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u82	But in all of Slovenia, they've already spoken. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u83	What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u84	It must be said that Mr Slapnik was unable to study any cooperation in arms affairs and the Slovenian Democratic Party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u85	Mr. Chernač, can I interrupt you again and ask you what your proposal is? Could you please be so kind as to answer me?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u86	and it would be fair and proper for you to call him to an apology, because it was his hate speech in this national assembly. [[...]] However, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that, at the conclusion of this debate, you should share the remaining time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I think the cameras were on. Mr Jerovšek has the word – no, he is no longer going, we said. Excuse me. The next, because time has passed for the SDS Group, is Mr Anton Anderlich. He doesn't want to discuss it. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Now we've had a typical demonstration of this arrogance, which, over the past 18 years, I believe, caused a lot of this attitude to this, with this authoritarian attitude, it couldn't get to epilogues. Once again, I agree with all those who have supported today's adoption of the law to open everything in this regard. It's not about archival material, it's about documents that are still fresh and not subject to archival material. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to one thing, and I will quote once again the position of the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 1996, led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek. This report is written, among other things, and I will quote ten times again: "It is undeniable that in addition to many legal and legal activities there have been cases of illegal arms trafficking and the personal exploitation of individuals on this basis. In some accounts abroad, there is a suspicion that there has been abuse and personal exploitation. The arms were also found to be sold for cash. The prices differed and were determined by the Minister of Defence and the chairman of the then Security Authority of the Ministry of Defence from case to case. Regrettably, the government notes that the prosecutions of most criminal cases in this area have not yet dealt with or are not aware of their stage of prosecution. The procedures are long-term, allowing endless possibilities of doubt and manipulation." And from this day forward, we have 15 years of manipulation. And once these manipulations have to end. Now I'm going to go to the most modern manipulation ever performed by my colleague Grims when he was talking about an expert hired by the previous investigative committee led by Milan M. Squeakle in terms of patriarchy. This expert had a contract with the Ministry of Defence in the government of Janez Janša! And my colleague Grimes is talking about the corruption of Milan M. Squeak because it's an expert. Then, too, the government of Janez Janša acted corruptly because she had an employee of this man under an honorary contract, out of a competitive one if she was purchasing Patriage! I'm asking you nicely, who was supplying the Patriage?Oh, my God! Did the patriarchs acquire neighboring countries? Our country, our government, our defence ministry at the time. And their contractor was the same expert! The same expert who was employed, as you say, in a competing firm. Please! Who's manipulating? Who's manipulating today? Once again: All documents should be opened. Everyone, let's get to the bottom of the truth once.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u89	Would you like a word with the proposer? Mr. Tadej Slapnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Allow me to further explain in the final part of the debate the need for adoption of the law. It is known that JLA built up truly enormous quantities of weapons and ammunition on Slovenian territory at that time. This is where she stationed numerous artillery and tank units. According to the number of tanks in one place, the mountain range was the largest in Europe. These enormous quantities that have been stored here have remained completely intact. Although some equipment was already distributed to units during the self - conquest war, thousands of tons remained intact, thousands of tons. And after the war of independence, they were controlled by the Ministry of Defense, in particular the Logistics and Military Intelligence Department. Indeed, the Presidency then decided to assist Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina with their weapons. The Presidency carried the implementation of this assistance to both ministries, internal and defence. However, the way in which this aid is implemented can be evaluated today. I believe that both ministries have done their job quite untransparently. The government authorities, which were then led by great friends today and, according to the latest, by political travellers Igor Bavčar and Janez Janša, apparently carried out this assistance very locally. And what's even worse, the so-called aid was suddenly no longer aid, but a trade with apparently extremely chopping prices. Today, we know that soon after the end of the ten-day war, some individuals who have held important public functions begin to organise transports of these enormous quantities to Croatia. Today we also know that some shipments to Croatia have been completely blacked out, while others have been documented. Unfortunately, we also know that this documentation was later destroyed. How was the sale of the weapons of the former JLA even going? According to today's well-known facts, both from publicly available documents from various state authorities and from the statements of participants in these transactions, the disposal of weapons by the former JLA was led by VOMO, the security authority of the Ministry of Defence, led by Mr Andrej Lošin. The easiest way to explain business in general is this: the MORS Logistics Administration is Lošinov's message, which weapons are available at a certain point. Following the testimony of the witnesses, Mr Lovšin then set prices. When the buyers paid for the purchase, they could take over the loaded weapons on the trucks. In order to get the trucks across the border, it was in principle necessary for the border crossing to be given an appropriate dispatch. The Security Information Service was responsible for the so-called opening of the border. This service was then led by Dr. Miha Brejc, an influential and visible member of the SDS today. It is evident from the preserved depots that police officers at the border crossing only received information about the number of trucks or their registration plates, and occasionally the names of the drivers of these trucks. What is loaded on trucks is not recorded in these dispatches. No police or customs officers at the border crossing knew what was actually loaded on the truck, which had to raise the prisoners on the basis of Brejč’s dispatch. It is not known that any such transport would be inspected by Customs at any time. In fact, only the seller and buyer knew the contents of the cargo. As a result, they were the only ones who knew the prices, i.e. the price paid. The need to withdraw the level of confidentiality is also demonstrated by the document which is among the recently publicly available documents. In registrar number 2 there is a document marked with number 439. It is a charter certified by one of the arms buyers in Croatia. In February 2000, notary Marija Ivančić certified a copy of the document submitted by Mr Marinko Gaspić. The document contains a list of the goods purchased and we learn from the notary certificate that Mr Andrej Lošin wrote the chemical pencil on the right hand side of the document. And what were those prices? One hand-held mortar M57 was worth a thousand 500 German marks, the Osa launcher cost 3,000 marks, one was worth a thousand marks, and an automatic rifle cost 5,000 marks, and a case cost half a mark for it. Furthermore, for one rocket, Malutka had to pay 9 000 500 marks, for one rocket Zola 2 000 marks and for one rocket Arrow-2M as many as 25 000 marks. And what's interesting: the buyer claims that the prices were written by Andrej Lochshin himself. Together, the shipment was worth about 2.5 million German marks. Let us compare these prices with those mentioned by Defence Minister Janez Janša in his provisional minutes at the time, as can be seen from the recently published ODS document of 6 June 2016. 2. 1997 In this document, the M57 rocket launcher mine costs 95 mark according to Janša's statements. Lochvin sold it for 200 marks. For the Osa Janš launcher, the premium record indicates the price of 900 marks. Gaspich has set the price of 3,000 marks. One wasp rocket is supposed to cost 190 marks according to Janša's statements, and here we see the price of a thousand marks and so on. This is a notaryly certified statement by a Croatian buyer. Let Mr Janš and Lošin agree on each other and identify the real causes of these differences. Of course, there will not be sufficient fabrication in this regard of any deconservative weapons which would result in lower prices than Mr Janša told us at the extraordinary meeting in May. These documents confirm a significantly higher selling price for arms sold, whether or not preserved, and these prices are several times higher than those presented by the defence ministry in its reports. So the question is, where are these missing funds? The prices cited by Janša in his 1993 famous report are significantly different. There wasn't any cash, either, if we believe this report. The arms were paid only by Croats with compensation, oil. The buyers paid mainly with oil, as well as with equipment and other vehicles, according to Janša’s report. So says the official version, according to which Slovenia is expected to receive a total of only 28 million marks for all weapons. Only 4 million are to be paid by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the remaining 24 million by Croatia and all are to be compensated. The years that followed, however, brought to the conclusion that it was actually a big, fat lie. The arms were not only traded for oil, but were sold for cash and for payments made to accounts in Austria, Germany and Switzerland. That is why we say that all the documentation must be published immediately so that the masks fall as soon as possible. The statements of those responsible that neither the defence nor the internal ministry abroad had open bank accounts are accurate, but they are also manipulation and evasive. The accounts on which the purchase was made from the sold-out arms and ammunition were opened by individual employees of both ministries in foreign banks. There was something to sell; at least 60,000 anti-lock mines were apparently stored in the warehouse in the Loznica. The massive quantities in this warehouse of stored weapons only show that the emptying of warehouses was an incredible logistics operation that lasted for a week. How, then, should we believe in these 28 million German marks of income when witnesses speak of enormous cash amounts? For example, on the website of Orozje.info we can see a statement by former commander TO for East Styria Vladimir Milošević, who said in November 2008 I quote, and not in the conditioner: "There were 2 thousand, 2 thousand, 500 missiles in the warehouse. One rocket was sold for 25,000 marks." Here Milosevic said quite directly: 2 thousand rockets of 25 thousand marks, and if we multiply it, we get 50 million German marks. Therefore, the story of the purchase that was paid with compensation for oil is more reputable from day to day when we can look at the documents where it says that the purchase should be transferred to Cranex's Zurich account. What's the payment to the bank of a foreign bank with compensation for oil? Nor does it seem to forget that the Maribor Evening published an article months ago with an accompanying document in which journalists found that Mr Franci Cimerman, driver of Andrej Lošin, apparently engaged in cashier's business, transferred 880 thousand marks through the Austrian bank. Here's the question: why didn't he put the money in the Slovenian bank? Why did you have to do business in Austria? And why did the Slovenian financial system have to be bypassed? Who in Slovenia was there something hiding from? Many questions are still open in terms of cash transactions. Where's this cash book? Where was it or what was sold for cash? How much was that cash, and how was that cash spent? There are still no answers to these basic questions. Former Defence Minister Janez Janša has for almost a decade strongly denied doing business for cash as well. It wasn't until November 1999 that we were finally expecting the truth. I quote his statement: "If you're asking me if we sold guns for cash, my answer is yes." It took him eight years to admit it. Until then, he lied. Why did he deny cash business until then? Even if the arms trade was a state secret, it certainly does not mean that cash transactions were so secret that they should not even be recorded. All those who investigated the arms trade, that is, without reservation, say directly that the cash is not published. And there's one more thing. I must draw attention to another outstanding step between the statements and the content of the documents. As I said, Janša admitted in November 1999 that he was in business with cash. But look at the fraction, 8 months later, when the same John Janša became Secretary of Defense in the Bajuk government, he sent a report to the National Assembly stating that the total value of the transactions was 28 million German marks, and he did not mention the cash again. So why doesn't Janš write down what he confessed nine months earlier in his official state document? In November 1999, he publicly admitted that he had been operating in cash, and in August 2000, he did not mention it in the official document. Let him understand who can. As well as understanding who can, the case of members of the party HOS, the private party army of Croatian Dobroslav Paraga. During the official period of August 1991, members of the defence ministry trained members of the party HOS. The training was carried out a month before the Presidency adopted a decision on any assistance to Croatia. Let me repeat, in the Slovenian territory, members of the Ministry of Defence trained a paramilitary unit. On the web site of truthoorosju.si was also recently published a video of talks with one of the Slovenian Defence Ministry employees who conducted this training. He explained exactly how it was going, but then when I asked the Ministry of Defence about it, he told me in reply that they did not know anything about it, that they did not find any data in the documents of the MORIS Brigade, the Republic Staff TO and the Republic Secretariat of Public Defence on this training. What's more eloquent than the fact that there's no data in the archives? Dearly beloved, let us therefore accept this law, for this way we will withdraw all the marks of secrecy and thus open all the archives. This is inevitable for us to close the arms story once and for all at the political level. Make it public that citizens and citizens can create their own image and deliver their own judgment. Colleagues and colleagues, believe me, this will make a significant contribution to the development of Slovenian democracy. We will also contribute to raising the standards of the rule of law, so please confirm this proposal for a decision when voting on whether the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u91	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Nine debaters reported, each with 5 minutes. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u92	As I said in the introduction, I still think that these documents can be obtained. I do not understand the will of some political function holders who do not want to do this and act in my firm conviction in contravention of the law, but in this way we will be able to open a discussion that will go into the finals, to say so, to this issue and end this dark period of Slovenian history. It does not seem necessary for us to be discussing today what anyone knows, who thinks about this issue, because these things will have to be repeated, proved, and then these things can also be credible and definitively completed. As a matter of fact, I will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u93	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr Vice President. At first, I must say that I am very, very disappointed with the fact and what the current coalition is doing at this time. We know exactly and see for ourselves the situation of our society and the country. We all know we have over 120, 130 thousand unemployed. The vast majority of those working in the real sector are on a minimum wage. Most pensioners cannot survive with the pensions they receive. We have a lot of workers who have worked six months and so on who don't get paid and so on. In such a state, in such a situation we deal with a matter that, according to my personal assessment, has long been completed! It's been over a long time! 20 years later, we're dealing with what happened 20 years ago! Do you think that is of interest to Slovenian citizens and citizens at this time?Oh, my God! Do you think they're interested?Oh, my God! They want to know how you will solve problems while you are in power that people will have a properly loaded pocket so that they can live, not deal with mounted processes! But they were not dealing with nonsense that had nothing to do with the current situation! We should be working on how to solve people’s problems, how to solve the problem of pensioners having adequate pensions, so that workers will receive salaries that they have not received for 6, 7 months! You're dealing with an arms affair! And you know why you're dealing with this now?Oh, my God! I will now quote to you what is written in this evening, as Mr Rupel said. This is very important for you to hear that we will all know why you have opened this question now. I will read and quote this; Mr President, please allow me to do this. See, Mr Dimitrij Rupel wrote down the following today, writes on the fourth page of the Evening: "A few days ago, a acquaintance who runs a successful business told me about the lies of the current coalition regarding the next, early or regular elections. Remember, she told me, all the candidates and important names of the current opposition will compromise or remove them from the political scene by entanglement in media, financial, police and judicial investigations. Hundreds of civil servants, who, contrary to the current rhetoric and the recommendations of the European Union, have been employed by the current government, prepare lists and fabricate indictments every day. It will be possible for opposition candidates, because the ruling coalition controls all these instruments, to prove their innocence only after the elections." So, my dear colleagues and colleagues, the complete Slovenian public now, if he listens to me, and I believe he listens to me, he knows exactly what you are doing now, is preposterous! In any case, you want to discredit the Slovenian Democratic Party and its President! This is your only and key goal! You don't care much about what happened in 1991! We all know who the commander was back then! At that time, he was the commander of everything, Mr. Kučan! Everything! And I never said that he stole anything, never! But everything that happened in Slovenia went through Mr Kučan's hands. And no one in this National Assembly will ever convince me that Mr. Janez Janša played a key game! I am sure that Mr Janez Janša is a gentleman for many of those sitting here in Parliament. For many of those sitting here in Parliament. Mr. Slapnik, that's all you need. I am sure that you have spoken about this document that was written here — not a document, but an article by a journalist — that you will prove your innocence, that you will sue this journalist in court, and that the judgment will be valid for me, which will show that you are not guilty and that the person who is signed under this article has slandered you or lied. Then I'll believe you. And I'm not accusing you of anything. There's just an article that weighs you down, and that's a fact. Either you're guilty or you're not, the court will decide if, of course, you're going to sue this journalist, whom you say he was slandering. To the conclusion. We all know that Slovenia needs economic reform at this time! He needs what it takes to make people survive! But he doesn't need new and new affairs before the elections! And please, stop these affairs. Stop it! Start working for citizens [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage even though it's not necessary. And I agree with those in the coalition who have said that they are surprised that ministers or anyone does not open up and take this step to give their consent to open these documents. This is also the president of the National Assembly, and it comes from the party Zares. The coalition has every opportunity to replace those ministers who do not implement coalition policies. Why do they tolerate Minister Jelusic who won't open these documents? Why don't they replace her? The coalition can solve this quickly. Why does it not replace the coalition of the President of the National Assembly, who blocks access to secret documents and receive them in a privileged manner, like Mr Slapnik or Mr Kek and others, while others need to write applications to get to the documents that are open? Why don't you do it? The objective of this project is simply to drag and drag these stories like the yoke of a snake. These cannot be well concluded for those who initiate them. They can't because you couldn't find out anything when the president of the investigative commission was investigating the weapons, Moge. Mr Anderlič was the leader of the coalition at the time, the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly. In fact, he was the emperor of Parliament and you did not withdraw the procedure or conclusion of this commission of inquiry. Interesting. Even when you had Zdenko Cerar at the head of the Attorney General's Office, you couldn't process the case. Don't make excuses for Barbara Brezigar. Eight years earlier, she was or was still more, and two of her terms were Attorney General Zdenka Cerar, in front of Brezigarje, and you did nothing. The fact that things are complicated that things are difficult to repeat also shows this withdrawal, the escape of Attorney General Branka Zobbe Hrastar. This structured process is likely to be completed by the slaughterhouse, just as everyone has done so far. None of the procedures you launch through the media, through politics, through this, have been completed in the way you expected, not one. Not one. And speaking of your marriage, which you say he'll give something. Why aren't all the documents related to the arms trade public? Why are some of your proposals exempted? You have no serious intention of revealing all the documents of the arms trade, but only those that suit you in terms of the political situation. I have before me a document signed between the former President of the Presidency, Mr Kučan and Ali Izetbegovic, where a specification of the equipment they need is written in order to defend Sarajevo and it says: "Finishing in cash at the time of delivery." This is a document, accessible, verifiable. Why is this document not an integral part of your withdrawal project? Why doesn't anyone deal with him? Is this part of the arms store? Is this part of the arms store?Oh, my God! It also speaks of the direct involvement of the former President of the Republic in the arms trade. Directly! Directly! And now you are dealing with the lustration of those who have played a key role in self-reliance. You've managed to eliminate all of those from this so-called spring in one way or another. There was only one major target left — John Janša. The only big target left. And given that the time of such or other elections is steadily approaching, this work must be completed. For 20 years you have been dealing with it and in 20 years you have not successfully completed any process, no matters, no affairs, and every time you enter into an affair of a more compromised person, every time some people are burdened with a criminal past, and every time more. I'm afraid that's your concept. Instead of content, project development you are engaged in constructing and defacing those who have contributed greatly to this country. You're certainly little what you were when you were a young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u97	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I am very pleased with this debate today, because on a specific occasion, it is said with regard to weapons in the Bedroom, to explain how they are brought to the public by falsehood, lies and insinuation. In this particular case, Mr Slapnik organised this at a defamatory session in Slovenska Bistrica, where he claimed that I had not given the Territorial Defence to the premises because there were at least three wagons of weapons on 280 squares. There they claimed that this weapon was only one week with me, but it was since 3 July, and the first one was taken away on 9 September. Lies, pure lies. Mr. Slapnik said he invited me to be there. I didn't even know what he was thinking, what it was. However, for the first time, he wanted to organise when I had the Defence Committee to which I preside, and he is a member of the Committee. And when I warned him that you were organizing a press conference in Slovenian Bistrica during the committee's meeting, he moved to another date when there was a meeting of the National Assembly, where I even performed this morning. These are his methods! These are his methods! But you see what was said about the weapons in the Bedroom, and there that individual showed the original documents about the weapons from the Bedroom, which he apparently had embezzled, unauthorizedly removed, and on such impugned, unauthorized documents he is now trying to organize a campaign in Slovenia. That is why, of course, I am in favour of the fact that all the documents that are available, and obviously some of the many original documents have been removed, actually put on the table, to separate the last drift and, of course, those such as Mr Slapnik – in these affairs perform with their broken credibility. Here, too, in every sentence, he uttered an untruth when he answered me. He said after three months of this article, that's what I say. The date is 10. 6. - One month. This article reads: "Who has taken care of ensuring whose business has not yet been fully cleared." Through this individual, Slapnik is supposed to be an Albanian entrepreneur, trying to ensure that he acts as a subcontractor of Granit from Slovenia Bistrica. You know I'm hurt! I am a member of the Slovenian Bistrica, and a member of the Slovenian Horsemen pressures businessmen from Granit to give business, as it says here, to an Albanian entrepreneur to earn something. Member of the affair? is an article. In the affairs of Elektro Maribor and the medical faculty of eight detainees, participant Tadej Slapnik. And Tadej Slapnik then accuses the left and right of the weapon, of how much I had in the weapons warehouse. Now he says he was a minor at the time, but he's organized, he's done a script on the way I'd be treated in my place. Think about it. And there they bragged about stolen documents, originals, on TV. All lies! They even went so far as to point one out that my wife was afraid because she had two little children by the mountains of weapons. She was probably scared, only my wife talked about it only with her mother on the phone. And if they were listening, maybe those actors were listening in at the time, then personally she was afraid for the children, and that was her great sin. [[...]] How did they know that my wife was afraid of guns, but we don't know, and that was organised by Mr Slapnik! On the basis of such Members and such methods, we would now like to clear up the arms affair. Colleagues and colleagues, find a credible Member who will handle these matters, because otherwise all documents will be misused, as in this particular case has been misused, which relates to weapons in the Bedroom. On the basis of such unworthy people, it is not possible to draw conclusions! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u99	Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u100	First of all, I would answer his question to my colleague, Mr Pojbic, because I fully agree with him when he said why this topic opens again now that there are so many developmental themes for Slovenia that people would like to see realized in Parliament. But the answer to this is simple, Mr Pojbič: because other people do not know, because this coalition has not been able to pour manure on political opponents for 20 years, fosters negative moods, encourages different prejudices and discredits all its political competitors. And they don't know anything else, but nothing. This has now been seen when they took power in a somewhat more difficult period and caused an economic disaster for Slovenia for several generations. Every election campaign in Slovenia, local or national, took place in the same scenario. Suddenly, trials on arms trafficking were brought to life, and this election campaign is clearly starting! Once again, respected colleagues have introduced a new law on opening archives on arms trafficking, which we would otherwise be willing to support, only we understand it as simply putting cards on the table to reveal everything because we have nothing to hide! But, colleagues, if you've listened carefully to them, from the kind of transition left, here you see a new opportunity to further water the manure and further discredit. And that's right and that's all in the game, proves what I started with. This law is fatally flawed because it lacks the most basic, most criminal arms trade: allowing the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence when someone trades with their own country! This trade is the basis of everything, because none of what this law covers would have happened if it had not been for this basic arms trade, the trade in its own country, which was committed by all those who stood in their pockets, ignored warnings or even been informed in advance of the disarmament of Slovenia's TO and did nothing. For the abandonment of this act is treason in this case, it is the crime of the worst kind, the crime of its own country and of its own nation, which never grows old in my mind. The question was also raised why it was also traded with Croatia. The one who puts it has no idea of politics, nor of militaryism, nor of the defence of his own country. Fear and God forbid he ever gets the chance to run any country again, not even the local community. For why was Slovenia obliged to help? For ethical reasons, for political reasons, it is clearly about values, but it is also about vital interests! What would happen if Croatia lost in war with Serbia or JLA? She would take JLA back to the borders with Slovenia and attack us again only if this time significantly strengthened, significantly more united, and we would have endlessly greater problems than we had in the first fight. That is why all the help, the help that was given free of charge, was to be able to buy weapons through Slovenia in the vital interest of the survival of Slovenia. It was about defending Slovenia on Croatian soil. If anyone doesn't understand it, then he's not worthy to run this country, I'm really sorry. We must also be aware that it was not just a trade. Many times it was also about other measures, the supply of weapons, the lending, and the fact that in some cases it was simple to say where and when the JLA transports started and, of course, the Croats carefully intercepted them and cleaned up those weapons and made themselves substantially stronger and prepared themselves. This was also the case, so JLA eventually took her red star with her ship from Kopra in disgrace, with her head down. And I owe the answer to Mr. Kumru, who was so loud. You are also consciously violating the Constitution in this disgrace of political opponents. When I warned my fellow investigators that no one could just push one piece of paper into someone's hands and yell at him to go out the door, as Mr Slapnik did, then there was a comparison with Mr Squill. What I have in my hand is documents. Just count the pages. So many sides of the explanation were in the proposal for the discharge of Mr Squeak. This was also sent to the Constitutional Court. But in my case, one sentence and a shout, because it's not about [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. The law that we have been discussing for some time is a mere farce on the part of Zares. A few months ago, they staunchly advocated closing the archives, not accessing the materials, preventing researchers from studying historical documents; and Zarez’s minister, who is no longer present, defended this law until the last drop. Fortunately, it has been rejected by citizens and citizens at the referendum, and we hope that we will be able to access these documents if, of course, the government does not invent something new and prevent it from doing so. Now it comes with a law allowing access, but to those documents that they themselves assess to be appropriate and to be useful for the upcoming elections and the time that is approaching us. We are already used to dealing with weapons before every election, which is one of the main topics. All of a sudden there's new data, new information, new documents and so on. But the law you are proposing, proposed by Members, in Article 2, speaks of specific documents. Of course, you are re-selecting and giving insight into or access to those documents that you think are related to the arms trade. Probably not many of these on the list, and the information officer will then find that some document that might clarify certain things is not included in the law and is therefore not related to the arms trade, because you have determined which documents speak and which do not. In the National Assembly, many years ago, those of us dealt with these documents, we had investigative commissions, you also led the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services, there were a bunch of meetings, arrangements, investigations and then reports on this topic to then Prime Minister Drnovšk, who did not report to the competent authorities, found illegality and said several times, "Let's close this and stop dealing with weapons." Of course, we are still in the process of doing things today, as we say, because the elections are coming again. Some of you have recommended that we take some books to read. We're reading something, too, and it might not hurt if you ever read another book about treason, which you also get in our library, from party to Patria, or anything else, but not just those books sent to you by Zares' Member Slapnik. Some of you also said that there was suspicion – here the leader of the largest coalition party yelled at us that there was a suspicion and I don't know what. If there is suspicion, an appeal shall be lodged and the competent authorities, which we pay very dearly in this country, shall determine whether this suspicion is justified or not. And so far, in 16 years, it has not turned out that any of these suspicions would have been justified and anyone convicted of illegal arms trafficking. Therefore, re-opening and engaging in this will probably bring nothing new, except some unfriendly articles to the president of our party, who is such a thorn in the heel, and only to hear about his name and the name of the party, they fall into their eyes and behave quite chaotic and inappropriately. If it is true that you want to conclude the debate on arms trade once and for all and leave the public policy to create its own judgment on the basis of documentary material, you would not need the law you have brought us. Although I will support it, I hope that it will ever be updated with another document, because I am sure that those listed in Article 2 will not respond to what we want or what we want to conclude. Well, that's in your description of why you're even putting in a bill written down. To actually give everyone the opportunity to open and read all the books that are written about it, and those that will be, and that those documents that have already been reviewed and reviewed by both investigative commissions and others who have dealt with it, and I am sure that they have examined much more than just those documents that are written here, we do not select and determine which documents to review and from which to take.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I used to listen to Mr. Slapnik. Of course, he listed rockets, prices, mountains down, over here, and I don't know what we're supposed to investigate or what. Mr. Slapnik doesn't know he's still young, and someone could advise him on something between you. He won't listen to me like that. In 1993, the first report – it all reads. In 1994, Drnovšku’s second report – everything is written. In 1996, Drnovšku's third report – everything is written. In 1999, Mojet's action – it all writes. In the years 2002 and 2003, Mr Gantar's action with his colleagues – everything is written. And he's still writing down some prices. Go ahead. And look what else he's saying. Moreover, he says that John Janša lied, and gives reliable evidence. In 1996, he said so, in 1999 he said so, but in 2002 he said so. First he said there was no cash, then he admitted cash and so on. Isn't that a hell of a proof or something? But Mr Slapnik does not want to tell another truth – whether he knows it or hides it. 6 January 1993, extended presidency. No, not even the extended presidency, but the President of the Presidency or the President of the State, Mr Kučan, the head of Parliament, Mr Rigelnik, the Defence Minister, the Interior Minister, is Janša, Bavčar, Rupel are meeting and concluding – what? We will no longer help Croatia and Bosnia, and point 2 of their agreement is: in Slovenia, because of the embargo and reputation in the international public, we will never say that we have traded arms and helped Bosnia and Croatia. These people have actually concluded a smart agreement because of the reputation of the country, everyone, from Kučan to the last participant. But the problem is that then the first data leaks out, probably from those same circles, probably by the boss of this, and then Janš's deal sticks and says it wasn't. Then he keeps leaking and leaking and then he gets angry and tells the truth. And this story is now declared a lie by Mr Slapnik Janez Janša. It's all just one big lie. That's something to admit. All the committees have done their job. For 14 years you were in power until 2004, and you knew what was going on, and you had all the documents. Nothing. The former president of the state gave up on you, and he told you to stop. No, no, no. The former Prime Minister, Rob, has given up on you. He said stop. No, no, no. They change like mushrooms in the rain. From the first investigators through Mojet, through the current president of the National Assembly, then these investigators dry up and come in new ones. Mr Slapnik was born in Ljubljana this year. A new investigator. Did you see that? This one's gonna be a success! And instead of making a deal in the coalition and agreeing: documents per day, we have a legal basis. President of the National Assembly, Government, Defence, Interior Minister – open archives, withdraw the level of secrecy, documents per day. You're saying there's a treasure in there where there's chronic evidence to destroy the head of the opposition, the president of the SDS. Why don't you do it? We could have done it last December. You're not. You've come to the committee I'm running to discuss it there. Why is that? What am I gonna do with that? I'm not the head of the National Assembly or the government. I don't have any access to the files. We have requested a meeting of the National Assembly and have proposed an immediate decision, withdrawing secrecy from all documents. No, you said. There must be a declaration of law. Have you seen the nonsense you're doing? And now you've brought this marriage. You've ruled out a little bit, but there's some documents you'd like to hide. No, no, no. We will complement this law with amendments and, of course, support it. But I don't know if you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The matter has been going on too long, so it would be hard to say with regard to the seriousness of the purpose that it is a serious intention to complete it. So far, several parliamentary commissions have dealt with the issue. They were all unsuccessful, and in 15 years no conclusions were reached. Clearly, there is a lot of truth in this too. It is true that there were also those on call who had to stay in custody for several months because of the public and the media. As we know, the matter is obsolete despite the fact that there are hundreds of different documents that justify the fact that irregularities have occurred with certainty. It is not clear to me that in the country of law, when everyone knows, no one is convicted of the irregularities that have occurred. The papers are on the palm of your hand, they say left and right, and everyone wants this thing finally to be over. I'm sorry, if someone is watching you closely as an external observer, they can go crazy, because in the end, they don't know who's crazy, who's lying and who's stealing. For you all know the truth, and the desire is that it may be completed, but there is no epilogue. There's probably no more truths, but there's only one. The 1990 document of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia states that the Federal Secretariat for Human Defence is 17. 4. 1990, in view of the insufficient and inadequate security of the weapons of territorial defence and the real danger of the major organised places of arms and ammunition by certain groups and extreme organisations, is very concerned. Why did I say that? Because this is essential information that weapons could be alienated from anyone, so that there was no need to be at the very top, but only that you were connected to any criminal association and under the pretense of anyone, even under the name of any policy, infiltrated the arms trade, which flourished especially when the Balkans were at war. However, as regards trade and arms found in airport warehouses, I believe that there must also be documents in the archives, since the present state security has closely monitored and monitored the matter. Since it is the wish of the two parties involved to conclude the case, I will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much. First of all, we must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have never had any difficulties opening documents, and also today we have no problems opening up documentation on arms purchases – but with opening everything up, unselectively. He's got a problem with power. The big, big problems this authority has had, 20 years ago, wearing a democratic mask over an old authoritarian, undemocratic face. Sadly, this cannot be removed, and it is evident today with their successors. The proponent who advocated this law here today justifies that this law should finally prevent manipulations that take place for 20 years. In the defense itself and in 90% of what has been said here today, it was an express manipulation on his part. If we are already in the process of defending a law that has not yet been adopted, we listen to such manipulative statements as soon as this law is adopted. However, when these documents are opened, what is the basis for everything else should continue to be opened, and this is the disarmament of the Territorial Defence, because at the time, because of some who were apparently afraid, Slovenia remained naked and barefoot, it was necessary to acquire weapons to defend and choose its country. We should also look at why and what Israeli haubics were getting, which were of no benefit, except for one fatal victim and one permanent disabled person. Why were the out-of-date tanks renovating and never coming out of the garage? Why did tens, hundreds of millions of euros go for such and other purchases of weapons, of which there are no benefits? Last but not least, how much less could 6x6 vehicles be purchased on the basis of an exclusive letter of intent without any public tender, based on an agreement of two politicians? 20 years ago, we Slovenians managed to conquer ourselves, which was an undeniable one-time historical act, but you want to evaluate this action today, and that is those of you who scared us that if we do, we will eat grass. Today, he wants this action to be devalued by those former commanders and colonels of the Udba who were protecting the then undemocratic power from rallyers from other parts of the country, and today they are given medals of merit for independence. Instead of laws designed to improve our position in the future, which should allow for a normal life for our people, a payment for their work, a decent payment for their work, the government coalition deals with a topic that has been opened at least six times in the past to discredit political competitors who have highlighted their lives for a single country. For the sixth time in these 20 years, the former non-democratic authority through its successors represents the assistance of Slovenia to neighbouring countries that have been attacked as the mother of all affairs and, despite 20 years of clearance, manipulates instead of clearing. Today again. It is necessary to make it clear again, because not only do some people not hear, but the readers obviously do not know that in those days there was no arms transaction that people at the top of the transition left would not know; they were informed from the front, running and officially. The first report, as already mentioned, was prepared in 1991, the next in 1993 and the next in 1996, in 2000 and so on. And last but not least, honourable proponents, especially those who today have been quite lonely in this National Assembly, advocate this law, read at least a magnetogram of an extraordinary meeting, which was not so long ago this year, April 12th. At least read this magnetogram, look at the documents that are publicly available, look at the documents that exist and are in this National Assembly, a number of investigative commissions that have investigated this weapons saga that you are holding on to because you are unable to rule and run Slovenia effectively, just to ensure that those who are more capable than you are dirty, dirty, and thus try to prevent them from starting to run this Slovenia and to lead it better for the benefit of all those who live in it. You're not gonna make it! You're not gonna make it! One of the key positions on this boat has hanged a white flag, departs from the prosecutions to the lawyers' waters; apparently it has already arranged state affairs to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 30th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law to sanction the upper boundary valley. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Mir Petk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The Upper Mežiška Valley is one of the most degraded areas in the Republic of Slovenia due to more than three centuries of the long extraction and processing of lead and zinc ore. The law on the gradual closure of the Mine of Lead and Zinc in Mezica carried out a number of measures for the rehabilitation of former mining facilities after the primary production of lead ore processing was discontinued, and partly the law also helped to remove the heavily affected environment. Environmental recovery in the 1990 ’ s was only partial, as the issue of heavy metals in the earth remained open and the raising of dust containing heavy metals was raised. A measure that is affordable for the country, which is of course not optimal, is the poisoning of open areas, the asphalting and cleaning of these areas around schools and kindergartens, as well as the replacement of polluted land, of course with the permanent monitoring of the content of lead in the environment and in the population, in particular children who are the most vulnerable category of the population. The proposal for the Recovery Act of the Upper Mežiški valley sets out a series of measures to be taken to improve the quality of the environment, the way in which they are implemented and the way in which they are financed. The measures include replacing polluted land and planting grass in public areas where children move, overcoating public areas where children are kept, wet cleaning of public areas, the regulation of naked public areas by planting, the identification of safe gardening sites, subsidies to ensure safe nutrition for public educational institutions, the cleaning of alerts, facades, the provision of information and awareness and intensive monitoring of children's health. These measures are already contained in the decree, which has not been implemented in recent years, as the state does not devote the money that is otherwise provided in the budget. The law further stipulates that farms that, due to past contamination with lead and sulphur dioxide, would have destroyed forests would have the opportunity to concession in state forests. Due to the new and additional pollution caused by the use of grammose in the Upper Mežiški valley containing heavy metals, this law also provides that mineral substances whose chemical properties exceed the emission limits of hazardous substances in the soil cannot be used in these areas. Sanitation of the environment of the Mežiški valley is primarily intended for the health of people, especially children as the most exposed and vulnerable population. Many environmental and health studies have been conducted in the Mežíska Valley in the last two, three decades, showing the great impact of environmental pollution on human health. Lead is one of the toxic metals for which epidemiological data on health effects are also available. Brain and nervous system damage prenatal and early childhood are the most severe consequences of lead function. The basic objective of the remedial measures is to achieve a level in order to ensure that the levels of lead in the blood of children below 100 micrograms in a litre of blood, which is the limit at which health effects have not yet been adversely affected by professional knowledge. This level is expected to reach about 95% of children and the remaining 5% should not exceed 150 micrograms of lead in a liter of blood. A similar proposal for the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Upper Mežičska Dolina was already under consideration in the previous term, when introduced by the LDS Group. That law had similar intentions, but it limited recovery to only three years and predicted 650 million dollars or about 2.7 million euros for rehabilitation. Three years is not enough to eliminate 300 years of long-standing environmental burden, and the government's decision is now better regulated. And so far, more resources have been invested in this environment than the LDS law has foreseen, which has certainly been well-intentioned. The decree itself, as well as the law that we are considering today, provides for an additional €10 million by the end of the recovery period, a million per year, which is already provided for in the existing budgets. However, the fact is that environmental recovery has stalled or is not taking place according to plans over the past two years, as the Upper Mežíska Valley has received 800 000 euros less money for rehabilitation than is provided in the budget. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, the rehabilitation of this environment is allocated to the cohesion service, and I really do not understand what the environment has in the Mežíska Valley with cohesion policy. Since the Government has not adhered to the decisions it has adopted, I call on Members to support this law. This will certainly mean a greater obligation for the Government if it is fully ignoring its own decisions. It will allow people, especially children, to live in an environmentally friendly environment as soon as possible in this valley. But I am prepared to support a similar law for Celje and the surrounding area, which is also burdened with heavy metals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A key measure to help reduce the presence of heavy metals in the air is to limit or reduce dust in a way that limits open areas that allow dust in the future. More specifically, this means the necessary implementation of remedial measures, the asphalting of macadamic surfaces and the overcoating of existing asphalted roads, streets, markets with modern asphalt coatings. Since the Municipality of Mežica and Montenegro in Koroška are thus unable to maintain a public road network, it is necessary to provide resources from the State budget for this purpose, since this cannot be left to local communities alone. Among the benefits of the law, applicants expose the recovery of non-recovery environmental damage resulting from long-term mining or the production and processing of lead in the municipalities of Mežica and Montenegro in Koroška. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed proposal of the law of the Group of Members, since it considers that the measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley are adequately regulated by the Decree on Areas of Maximum Environmental Burden and on the Programme of Measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley, published under number 119 in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in 2007. Programmes shall be implemented for each calendar year, which shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law does not comply with the existing regulation in the Environmental Protection Act, which provides for regulation at a sub-legislative or implementing level and not with a specific law. The legal definition of environmental pollution reduction measures is fully regulated by the Environmental Protection Act, Official Journal, No. 39/06 – Officially purified text, 49/06, and others. In Article 24, the CSO-1 authorises the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to designate a part of the environment or a specific area by regulation as a degraded environment if, on the basis of the criteria referred to in Article 23(2), it is classified as a class or level of maximum load or where there is a risk that the level of pollution will be exceeded by one or more alarming values prescribed under Article 17, paragraph 3, of the CSO-1 and in cooperation with the municipality in which the area of degradation is situated. A programme of measures shall be laid down to improve the quality of the environment or its parts in the area. In accordance with the above-mentioned legal provision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted, pursuant to Article 24 of the ZVO-1, a Decision on the areas of maximum environmental burden and on a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall each year adopt annual programmes of action for each calendar year containing a list and a description of the performance of the priority works for each year, together with a detailed financial evaluation. In order to implement the programmes for improving the quality of the environment set out in Annex 2 to the decree cited, the funds shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2007 to 2022 with the estimated value of the actions per year. An integral part of the decree is also Annex 1 which identifies zone 1 and zone 2 as an area where a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment is to be adopted. On the basis of the decree adopted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted annual programmes in 2008, 2009 and 2010 on the basis of which works were carried out in the municipalities of Montenegro in Koroška and Mežica in accordance with the annual programmes adopted. The State has provided adequate funds each year by means of a decree adopted. It should be noted that it is legally inadmissible, since both the law and the decree also regulate the same area. That is why the Government does not support the proposed bill of the Group of Members, since it considers that the measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley are already adequately regulated by the decree. The decree has to be supplemented. Blood tests in children have already shown an improvement in the level of lead in the blood, and this shows that the measures are correctly targeted, only to be completed according to the overall procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u114	Your Honor! With regard to this law, we have received a number of professional warnings, both by the head of the research group, I think that an agronomic or one of the universities in Slovenia which is involved in researching the state of the environment, as well as by some others who warn us that the measures envisaged in the law are not appropriate, such as land exchange, for this means a new waste that is being dumped elsewhere and is also toxic, as well as land replacement, replacing the soil with a new onslaught of land and similar things. The fact is that the Environmental Protection Act has introduced such arrangements that can contribute to permanent recovery if implemented in an appropriate manner. It is clear that certain resources must be provided for this as some compensation for the sustainable exploitation and destruction of the environment in this area. This is regulated according to our belief, properly by decree, and that the Government and all governments must continue to provide the envisaged amount of funds, beyond any doubt. That is why this path, which has already been adopted, has to be avoided and simply implemented, because if we agree to the logic that because the decree is not implemented to the extent that funds are provided, then the law will, this is a false dilemma that has been agreed upon, adopted and is in the interests of citizens and citizens, because we are ultimately at the disposal of both the Government and Parliament, with public money, which is either way accumulated by taxpayers. Therefore, it seems to me that this law, along with these assumptions and those comments that we have received primarily from the profession, could create some false dilemma, some false hope that this law will do something better, something good for this valley. Just as we had proposed in good faith years ago in the Liberal Democracy some laws, and we were then also warned that we had proposed limitedly, not broad enough, not long enough, not completely enough to be supplemented, and that the law had been rejected, as it now shows. However, given what has been said in the Government's opinion, and what I know is being properly regulated. That is why we will not support the law in this form.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we will not support this proposal for a law, even though all members have an extremely positive attitude towards the environment, to a healthy environment, to a clean environment, and that we want all citizens and citizens to have such conditions of life, especially the youngest, but this proposal is a case of how things cannot be resolved. The reasons for what and how it is being resolved were presented by the Minister himself, and I am also convinced that the path for even faster, even better improvement of living conditions in the Mežiški valley in the more intensive implementation of the adopted decision, not only in the Mežiški valley, but also in all other degraded areas, in order to achieve this duality and inadmissibility through the adoption of such legislation, because this decision already applies. As it is said, we will not support this bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you. Mag. Andrea Richter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežica Valley. The content of the proposed law is of the view that it is best to follow the opinion of the Government, which initially states that the legal definition of measures to reduce the polluted environment is fully regulated by the Environmental Protection Act, which authorises the Government, in its Article 24, to designate or declare as a degraded area under certain conditions a part of the environment or a specific area by regulation. In accordance with the provisions of that Article, the Government, under the leadership of Janez Janša, adopted in 2007 a decree on the areas of maximum environmental burden and on a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley, on the basis of which each government is required to adopt an annual programme of measures containing a list and a description of the implementation of priority works with detailed financial evaluation. Prior to that time, the coalition rejected the proposal for a law on measures to reduce pollution of the environment with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley, submitted by a group of Members, with the first-signed Dr. Paul Gantar. In the context of the available finances, a total of EUR 13 million has been granted from 2007 to 2022, and the adoption of this regulation is a commendable act for any government, i.e. for the previous one. Personally, I would like such decisions to be adopted for the rest of the environments in which we live and are burdened or degraded. I welcome the initiative to support this decision for the Celje area also by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the light of all that has been said, it is difficult to understand that representatives of the current government or the opposition today have come to the idea that the government's regulation is no longer sufficient to implement the established programmes and that, of course, it is necessary to adopt the law. With this idea they came to the day when the Republic of Slovenia is in a financially invisible position and, of course, there is a threat in the 2011 budget rebalancing which could withdraw funds from many programmes, including the recovery programme of the Upper Mežiški Valley. However, the rehabilitation program of the Mishik Valley is not at risk. For he is given even more resources and not less. The proposed law for this area can, of course, be seen as a somewhat more populism proposal from the current government, which, by reducing funds, might turn out to be a deliberate disregard for the inhabitants of the Upper Mežiški Valley or even that it is sometimes their enemy. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not know why the congregation has not yet received all the funds for this year. Nor did I get a proper explanation from the Minister at the outset; we expect to get it during the debate. However, we are convinced that just because the congregation has not yet received all the applications, there is no need to change the new law. At the same time, it is important to mention that there are other areas in Slovenia, as I have already mentioned, which should also receive significant resources to remedy the consequences caused by mining or metallurgy, and that due to the economic and financial situation, they will not be given an adequate approach for a long time. In these areas, however, the health of young people or of all generations is very, very dangerous. We hope that the proponents will also be aware of the fact that the law does not have to be adopted, as it would merely lead to legal, legal confusion and be inconsistent with the regulation based on the Environmental Protection Act, which the applicants themselves were very well aware of in the previous mandate. If the applicants consider it necessary to insist on this, they also need to amend four laws and not just write a new one. The Law on the Rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley in the Group of Social Democrats will, unfortunately, not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much again. I am pleased to hear now that after the budget rebalancing for this degraded area of the Meziska Valley there will be more resources, and let us wait for this to come to the table. Otherwise, allow me to continue this introductory supplementary explanation with some additional information from domestic and foreign research. In the domestic field, the reference institution of the Institute for Health Care of Ravna in Koroška, which has been monitoring and working in this field for many years, is responsible for monitoring the health situation of the people of Upper Mežiške dolina. A comprehensive analysis of the amount of lead in the blood of children in the area of the Mežiške dolina is also presented in the publication Environmental indicators of Slovenia prepared by the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise it was in the past, there somewhere since 1952 further, conducted dozens of studies on the effects of lead and heavy metals on human health in the Mežiški valley. The last major study, I think, was carried out five, six years ago by the great ERICO, who initially analysed all the existing studies and, in the introduction itself, found that all the studies produced so far had not been available to researchers or simply disappeared. From 1976 to 1990, basic research was carried out by the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine in Zagreb, which monitored typical biological indicators of the effects of lead on people in this region of Slovenia. It is worth mentioning here that an important work in this area was done by Zagreb's Prpic-Majić, who also published a monograph publication some decades ago on the impact of heavy metals on human health in the Mežiški valley. It should be added that in the past, when the former Mežica mine was still operating within the framework of that time, there was also considerable concealment of a wide variety of data and research. Let me say beyond this context, but perhaps as an interesting thing for the public: in today's sunken pit of the merciless mine was such an extraordinary radiance of radon, a natural radiance of radon, that a multitude of miners became sick of cancer. Such chromosomal aberrations as the medical profession had never known have been discovered. People also died young, and this fact was quite hidden. The literature says that the half-life of lead is in nature from 790 and there to 5 thousand 900 years, depending on the type of soil and the presence of water. Today, despite modern technology, lead has not completely withdrawn from use, and today the processing of lead, now from secondary raw materials, is made of old batteries. In the Upper Mežíska Valley, the health status of lead exposed persons has been monitored and controlled somewhere since the beginning of the 20th century. However, research involving the rest of the population began, as I said, after 1952. Studies in the period 1972-1976, which dealt with various groups of the population, showed the level of lead in the blood for individual groups from 300 to 900 micrograms in a litre of blood, and this was the period when metallurgy in Žerjav operated with full capacity and there were no cleaning facilities in Žerjav. Shortly thereafter, the production or assembly of lead filters and later the production of desulphurizing devices took place. As regards the level of lead in the blood, it should be added that in 1996 the limit was 250 micrograms in the blood and in 1991 it was reduced to 100, which is still true in most countries today. For people who work in the production of lead, however, it is acceptable to use all the professional recommendations of 250 micrograms in a liter of blood. In the Upper Mežiški valley, the load of lead has been constantly decreasing over the last 30 years, but the consequences of the past have remained. Lead accumulates in the upper layers of the earth, resulting in a considerable amount of dust with lead and other heavy metals. In 2004, the Health Care Institute of Ravna in Koroška conducted a study that showed that due to excessive environmental burden with lead, certain measures were needed, and people learned to live with lead in some way or in some way, by keeping an eye on hygiene and by keeping an eye on what we put in the pot at home. It should be stressed that the first years of implementation of the measures initiated after the adoption of the 2007 decree have had a positive impact on the environment. Based on the measures, lead levels from 2004 to 2009 were significantly reduced in the blood samples of children from Upper Mežica Valley and 235 children aged 2 to 3 years were included in the study. In 2004, 85 samples of the blood of children had a lead content of more than 100 micrograms per litre of blood, and in 2009 it was only 18%. The proportion of children with lead levels in blood below 100 micrograms in a liter of blood in 2009 was the same as the year before, but the proportion of children with values below 50 micrograms also showed significant progress. Today’s behavior about lead and the consequences of lead is quite great. This can be found in various studies that are also available online. The latest studies even show that there are negative effects on children’s health even at lower levels of lead in the blood and that it is virtually impossible to determine a safe area. Certain studies in the world indicate a link between lead and disease signs already at 25 micrograms in a liter of blood, so in Europe some countries, some European countries, have already established a lower value for children and women during the birth period, that is to say 50 micrograms in a liter of blood. In 2008, the annual action programme carried out a preliminary study to identify the overall burden of children in the Mishik Valley with lead. The study showed a significant increase in the burden of children in the Upper Mežiške valley compared to the Lower Mežiški valley. The highest levels of lead were found in the youngest, mainly in the 2 to 3 year group, followed by a 1 to 2 year age group. A calculation based on studies showed that children living in the Upper Mežiški valley have five times the risk of increased levels of lead in the blood compared to children living in the lower Mežiški valley, just a few kilometres away, that is, in Prevalje or Ravna. In 2009, a study was also conducted in the Upper Mežiska Valley, which examined the relationship between the level of lead in the blood of 3 years old children with concentrations of lead in the earth, in household powder, in air and in drinking water, depending on where this population resides. The most exposed to lead was found to be those children living in the most polluted areas, which confirmed the link between the polluted environment and human health. It was also found that exposure to lead and its introduction into the body can be largely influenced by each individual, namely personal hygiene, nutrition and hygiene. The set of data collected from various studies has also enabled the design of models which, based on the recording of loads of various factors of exposure to lead in the blood, can produce a specific model. For the period 2012-2017, it is possible to further reduce lead in the blood of children in the Meži valley, assuming, of course, that measures to reduce pollution in the environment are being implemented and that maintenance of high standards and technological processes is in the existing industry. Let me finish and mention the Ombudsman Zdenko Chebašek Travnik. She recently convened a press conference and warned at this conference that the resources for the remediation of pollution in the Upper Mežičska Valley with lead in last year were substantially reduced. Blood tests in children in the Upper Mežiska Valley have shown that lead levels in their blood are decreasing and that remedial measures are working. At the same time, the Ombudsman warned that the reduction of funds and the delay in the adoption of the annual recovery programme could not be carried out to the extent envisaged. The Ombudsman also points out that the State on the one hand is recovering the area, while also allowing new pollution through the issuance of operating permits. Here the Ombudsman was referring to the production of grammose, which is burdened with heavy metals. In short, all global and domestic studies show that lead is extremely harmful to human health, especially for children’s health. Slovenian research on the Mežiški valley has shown that the measures so far have produced positive results and it is irresponsible that the environmental recovery, which is subsequently also reflected in human health, does not continue to the extent envisaged. The decree is not respected and the decree is not implemented. It is quite possible that this government would ignore the law if it were adopted today. Today, it is necessary to say that the people living in this region would not be pretending that we in this country, Korosci in this country, have the right to live in a clean and more friendly environment if this initiative is not heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežičska Valley, which we are considering today, has a prehistoric history. In March 2005, the Group of Members and Members, first signed by me, tabled a proposal for a law on measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. The current ruling coalition, SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS rejected it and was supported by the SD and SNS Group of Members. The reason for the marriage was, of course, clear. The main proportion of rehabilitation in this region of Slovenia, very polluted, took place in the late 1990s. Post-2000 studies have shown the problematic content and contamination of dust particles, and this part was by no means covered by previous recovery programmes. That's why we filed this law. This law has been rejected by the coalition. Mr Petek, the current proponent, objected to this law at that time in 2005, because he did not foresee compensation for farmers who, due to pollution, cannot exploit land, and the fact is that even in the subsequent decision adopted by the Government regarding this rehabilitation, Mr Petek, no compensation has been mentioned or has been paid to him for farmers who cannot cultivate the land. The government, led by Mr Janša, has therefore rejected this law and has practically summarized the basic idea and also all the proposed remedial measures, partly upgraded them and put them into a decree that was adopted for about two years, I think later. Above all, I would say that on behalf of the SDS Group, colleague Friday also said that they did not support this law because they support a comprehensive approach and a comprehensive resolution of this highly degraded area in Slovenia. "In addition, there is already sufficient scope in existing legislation for the rehabilitation of this valley. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at its meeting on 2 June this year......" – then – "adopted an amended and partially amended motion for a resolution on the national environmental protection programme, which is the main strategic document in the field of environmental protection, where the Mežíska Valley will be the priority. [[...]] Colleagues, precisely because this foundation is sufficient for recovery, I then objected to the Committee on the Environment and said that these rehabilitations were carried out in accordance with mine closure programmes. Since the program, the Mežice Mine Closure Act, had already been completed, we needed a special reason, a special law, and this was not respected. It is true that they have promised more money in this decree, but we must say that one million euros should be spent in order to implement the remedial measures. The truth is different. The adopted budget in the Janševa government for 2006 estimated around €43,000 for all projects in the area of improving the environment, and in the 2007 budget, the €140,000 for all projects – significantly less than the promises made. It is said that if we are to manifest a breach of the promise, then this breach must be carried out from the beginning of the adoption and implementation of the decision to remedy these problems. So much for that. What, though, can we say about this new bill signed by the Group of 27 Members and Members of the SDS? First of all, let me say, let me have some humor or irony, that's simple recycling. After you've apparently run out of recycling laws, you've reached out to other laws, even after what I've filed. I have nothing against it. I'm even glad you chose mine as one of these recycling laws. Congratulations also on instances of copying, entrapment, attaching various existing documents to the marriage proposal. This particular method of work has already been used by your "experts" in the parliamentary group in the past, mainly for the purposes of discrediting the President of the Republic, but as we see it, for more noble and benevolent purposes. The full text and introductory explanations, the assessment of the situation, the reasons for the adoption of the law, the objectives, principles and main solutions to the law are literally copied, including the footnotes of the current 2005 law, which I am particularly pleased with. The Programme of Action itself is partly part of the Decision on the Areas of Maximum Pollution and Environmental Burdens adopted by the Janšev Government in 2007. Some experts have comments. Some are serious and need to be examined, and some are questionable and we also need to face conflicting opinions. I personally believe that land exchange in some areas is meaningful and good, and we would like to face this opinion with those who do not think so. At least for certain areas, I think it is useful, and some other measures. So we expect to face these opinions after all. We are therefore pleased that, after 6 years, the opposition SDS has now seen that the implementation of the annual operational programmes of remedial measures in the Upper Mežiški valley is not going anywhere, and therefore in Zares we support the good purpose of the law, but we expect that the law will be adequately upgraded in the next legislative procedure, complemented, in particular taking into account the section's opinion on the proposed remedial measures. We also join the initiative of one of the experts to ensure that the law is not adopted in the proposed form without professional amendments and that it needs to be supplemented, in accordance with other applicable rules. In the Group of Members, we will really support the above-mentioned proposal of the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley at first reading. We expect to upgrade it with joint efforts and strength in dialogue with experts to adopt a law that will enable the completion of effective environmental rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški valley, even with the satisfaction of the Government – I can tell you in advance if we come to this – and allow for improvement of the quality of the natural and living environment and thus the health of the inhabitants and residents in the Upper Mežiški valley. If we succeed, we will continue to support the law, but if we do not, we will say that we will not support the professionally incompetent law below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Upper Mežišča Valley region, the intensive exploitation of natural resources, the consequences of which, in addition to the polluted local environment, are also borne by the inhabitants there, requires immediate action to reduce exposure to heavy metals and improve the quality of life in the area. Too much heavy metal concentration has a strong impact on human health and is especially vulnerable to children, as heavy metals can have lasting consequences on their nervous system. The most problematic pollution with lead, zinc and cadmium is the particulates of which are found and transported mainly by road dust, which is also high in this area due to the large number of unsaturated road sections. Therefore, the key measure envisaged by the draft law is to reduce dust, which is what the applicants want to achieve by means of planned growth of unspoiled surfaces, asphalting of macadamian roads, overlaying of existing public areas and wet cleaning of public surfaces, replacing polluted land and so on. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support all measures to improve the environment and health of people, especially children living in this area, so we think that this kind of marriage proposal is appropriate, but of course nothing is so good that it cannot be improved yet. In our parliamentary group, we advise the proposers to also take into account the fact that certain measures already under way in this area are already being implemented under the Decision on the Areas of Maximum Environmental Burden and on the Programme of Measures to Improve Environmental Quality in the Upper Mežiški Valley, adopted by the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act in 2007. On the basis of this Decision, programmes shall be adopted for this area every year containing a specific list of measures to improve the situation in the environment. This arrangement seems more or less good to us in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, but we feel that it would be better to write some of the measures in the law, since it is higher on the hierarchical scale of legal acts and thus has a greater effect, and the existing decree would expire by the adoption of the law. We also point out that the proposal for the Recovery Act of the Upper Mežiški Dolina would be good to complement with some of the measures proposed by the professional public, which would be in line with the provisions of the Waste Regulation which is still in the public treatment process, thus allowing for the best possible conditions for the successful implementation of remedial measures. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration, and we advise the applicants to align the text of the law with the professional public and with the legal acts already mentioned, so that all measures can be accelerated to help improve the quality of life of the inhabitants and the environment in the Upper Mežica Valley area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this law is the second time in the National Assembly, and in the first reading or the first time in the debate, the Slovenian National Party has supported the law and we will support it today. We believe that it is imperative that the situation be settled in the Upper Mežiški valley. Mizica, Žerjav and Black are three places severely affected by contamination with lead, zinc, cadmium and also arsenic. Just by waving your left hand and saying that there is nothing to be done and that marriage is bad is nonsense. The law certainly needs repairs and perhaps precision of some starting points, but the government should not ex cathedra say that the law does not support it. I should approach the debate, find suitable starting points and corrections, amendments to donkeys, if not different, because, after all, we are correcting all government laws with amendments, and sometimes amendments are even more than articles in the law. That's why I think the minister should give up his hand, especially when he's saying wrong that the use of lead has led to this. This was due to the exploitation of lead ore, not lead; lead is the final product. I wouldn't expect such mistakes from the Minister of the Environment, who bears the sound of academic titles. We received several letters from the National Assembly, and in particular a letter from Prof. Dr. Domna Leštan of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology. I think it would make sense if this head of the pedology and environmental research group were to be included in the correction of this law and incorporated into the law of those cases and those corrections, as well as those starting points and useful things they have, for example, to remedy the environment in England, Belgium, the Netherlands and elsewhere. Despite the fact that some achievements have also been made by specific technology to clean up the territory already in the Valley of Meží, I think it would make sense for this matter to be further deepened and processed. Even to say that greening does not make sense is not logical. After all, certain plants draw heavy metals from the soil and collect them in their leaves. It would make sense for something to be done in this area, the donkeys that the Faculty of Biotech to sign off on this subject and then also in this way they can remove these heavy metals from the environment, of course if we pick that greenery, pick it up, remove it, and not let it rot and then heavy metal go back to the environment or to the ground. We also received one letter from Envit d.o.o., which deals, as is evident, with environmental technology and engineering in this area. It would also make sense to include this director, and I appeal to my colleagues from the SDS to make contact and repair those starting points that the Government ex cathedra says are bad, unfinished, stupid, and I don't know what else. The government's attitude to this serious problem is very stepmotherly. After all, the maximum amount of lead in the blood is about 100 micrograms — that is, I would say a approximate approximate. For the content of lead in the blood can in itself cause severe damage or prenatal damage and later also damage in the development, in the functioning of the liver and similar things. The matter must therefore not be pushed aside, and the government must step in with it, and it must step in with it — if it is something to help its inhabitants and citizens, or if we will only help refugees from Africa who are given apartments, jobs, money and not know what else. I think it's unfair, on the one hand, if I'm very gentle, from the government, that Koroška's going somewhere to rob, and it's nothing for her to fix in Koroška. Koroška is the most remote country, and I think it's a big mess that the government forgets! And he forgets about building the highway up there. For how long, and not only this government, all governments have forgotten to date, and only our party has fought for something all the time, but with 5 Members and in the opposition there is no other way to do it than to warn about the pigs that this or she is doing. I therefore hope that the Government will change its mind and order its coalition Members to sober themselves, to vote for this law, to go to the first hearing, and then together we will arrange it and correct it to the appropriate extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Golobič has the floor. He's not here. Mr Friday has the floor as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, I'd say the following. Dr. Paul Gantar said that marriage was bad, but at the same time he said that we had copied his marriage. So we signed a bad marriage. He's a little wrong. We did not copy, but we had the same resources that Paul Gantar had. ERICO's four CDs have set up a burden study on the Upper Mishnah Valley, and I'm going to tell you two names who brought Paul Gantar these four CDs to download. These were John the Kraut and Zoran the Milky Way. They brought him these CDs, and from this material he drew the law. Why shouldn't we draw from this same ERICO material the basic origins of this law, I don't know. As a professor, Paul Gantar speaks of a kind of glue; he should already know what quoting is, what glue is, and what plagiarism are. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Tiny, please, you have the floor. Get ready, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult to understand someone who lives in a healthy environment, what it means to live and raise children in an area that is dangerous for a healthy life. It is easier to say that the matter is governed by decree and that some resources will also be provided in the balance sheet. The bottom line is that this area is unhealthy for people to stay and that quick help is needed to clean up the environment, especially the school area and kindergartens. The means of recovery are decreasing despite the fact that the results are visible and should continue with at least the same means and trend of recovery as before. The Slovenian National Party proposed two years ago that an additional EUR 1 million be allocated to the budget for rehabilitation, mainly around kindergartens and schools, but the National Assembly refused and allocated the money to the church. I believe that money is scarce and that there are other needs, but it is always necessary to assess where priority needs to be addressed, and immediately, because it is the health of people who have been living in an unhealthy environment for decades, where the greatest benefits have been drawn mainly by the state! Therefore, it is only right that the state should now return something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Bezjak has the floor to prepare Mrs Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister Roko Žarnic, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled a proposal for a law on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiške dolina because we are aware that we are responsible for the well-being and life of all citizens and citizens, because also Koroška, Upper Mežišška dolina is part of Slovenia. Unfortunately, you failed to join Austria at that time, as you gave one part of Koroška to Austria. Another thing that is very important: The Upper Mežiška Valley has a centuries-old tradition of mining and processing lead, which also results in a much higher environmental burden with lead, zinc and cadmium. These are heavy metals that are harmful to citizens and citizens, to people who live in that environment and who ultimately deserve the same life as all other citizens. The purpose of the bill is to rehabilitate the Upper Mežiške valleys, to provide financial resources to remedy the most urgent and basic thing and help to regulate the quality of life of the Koroška region. Estimates of the financial implications were divided into 10 years, from 2012 to 2022 million euros each year. I think that two million citizens and citizens can provide these funds for the management of the Koroška or Mežiški valley. In the end, other European countries such as Sweden, Germany, Ireland and the like have a law or similar. So I see no reason not to adopt this law and help the Upper Meziska Valley or, rather, wider Koroška. Article 2 of the Act sets out the area of the Upper Mežiške Valley, where some of the things in this rehabilitation would have a promising advantage. Finally, we must be aware that a particular area is more at risk than any other area. First, it is necessary to recycle polluted land, plant grass on public areas where children's kindergartens and where citizens and citizens live, especially young people, young schoolchildren or people who have barely seen the world and go to kindergartens. There is also a need for overcoating public surfaces, cleaning, planting merciless mountains. When you come to this part, to you or to the city, there's a valley of fear, because we see around and around just gray instead of doing something about planting. Believe that everything can be done, all it takes is style and power, and with little money we can create a better life for these citizens and citizens. After all, we must be aware that, at least we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are politically accountable to all citizens and citizens, not just Ljubljana and the beautiful Ljubljana and Ljubljana. The holders of mining rights granted prior to the entry into force of this Act shall comply with the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Act by 31 at the latest. 12. 2012, because that's when the law goes into effect. I think there is nothing missing and that in these 10 years, as stated in the law, with the help of a million euros a year, we can make this province, this part of Slovenia, a better life. I hope that we are all aware that we live in Slovenia, that we all want to have equal conditions or at least about equal conditions for life, but especially our little ones who barely meet, enjoy themselves, play in kindergartens, on these vegetables, where there is now too much lead, on this sand, the sinks that actually endanger the lives of these young people, and that we will eventually have beautiful Slovenia everywhere. This is our responsibility, the Slovenian Democratic Parties, so we are proposing this law and we are also giving you consideration, with the hope that you will support it, for Koroška, which is also on this side of the Alps.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u134	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. That doesn't sound like everyone cares about poor kids and the Mishik Valley, just the ministries are ignorant. I must say that we are regularly and fully fulfilling the programme of work where we can. An interesting complication arose in the last situation where, due to the bankruptcy of one of the companies, another company continued to work, despite the fact that we are already 27. 6. We asked the Municipality of Mežica to provide us with data and cost-sharing in order to indicate that we did not get this. You need to know that our ministry is under the watchful eye as much as internal control – we follow the work as it needs to be done – as well as external control, and we cannot afford to pay it without proper documentation. Or, in other words, both the law and the decree can function well and things can stop on the ground if they are not properly guided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Pečan has the word to prepare Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to read Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act first. The first paragraph shall read as follows: "The Government may designate a part of the environment or a specific area by regulation as a degraded environment if, on the basis of the criteria referred to in the second paragraph of the preceding Article, it is classified as a class or level of maximum load or where there is a risk that the level of pollution will exceed one or more of the alarm values prescribed under Article 17, paragraph 3, of this Act and in cooperation with the municipality in which the decommissioned area is situated, it shall establish a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment or parts thereof in that area. In the event that the degraded environment covers a multi-community area, their associations or associations may also participate in the establishment of the programme." And then it goes on to say what all the action programmes must contain. In 2005, as we have already heard from colleague Paul Gantar, the law was first introduced, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of your President Janez Janša, rejected this law with your help, with a very logical basis: the law does not solve such matters, but is resolved by a decision on a programme of measures based on Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act. Although it was a two-year delay, despite the fact that, in fact, it was in the law and on the grounds that it had already used before, it was not until the end of 2007 that it adopted a decree on a programme of measures, so it was called. The rationale or preamble reads: "The decree on areas of maximum environmental burden and on the programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. On the basis of Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act... – the official sheet and everything else – "... issue of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decree on the areas of maximum environmental burden and on the programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley." In one of the articles, I think there is close to the tenth, just to find – Article 8: "The expected time for implementing measures to improve the quality of the environment is from 2007 to 2022." The first funds invested in improving the environment in the Mežíska Valley were not allocated to the Municipality of Mežica until 2009. So all of 2008 nothing happened. The amounts that have been and we have also heard from my colleague Gantar, so that I do not repeat them now, but I would like to tell you what amount was envisaged in the 2011 budget change. An estimated 800 000 euros. In the first round, it was said that there were some 40,000 euros. I have not been able to obtain information on how much resources have been allocated together for this purpose. The 2011 budget rebalancing, however, provides for a million euros, hearing that only one million euros were foreseen for the entire project of the reconstruction of the Meziska Valley at the beginning. So, in just one year in the balance sheet, there's a million euros. Colleagues who are proposing a law that you yourself said six years ago is not necessary because it is being addressed through environmental protection programmes, you have rejected the law, adopted a programme of measures, of course, in the government, because the government is responsible for it, and today, after six years, you are re-proposing the law. Why? Do you think that the electoral campaign that you have already launched is too expensive, and it is therefore necessary, through the National Assembly, to collect documents that are unnecessary, that do not solve the situation, in order to cover people’s eyes with your charity work? By the way, you would have read two letters from the Ministry of Environment and Space from the Mežíska Valley at home, which was last year. On 13. 12. A record of the review of works carried out under the co-financing agreement was signed in accordance with the Annual Programme of Action for the Improvement of Environmental Quality in the Upper Mežíska Valley for 2010 and EUR 21,000 was paid and then EUR 18 000 was paid and additional work was not recognised on the basis of a contract on Leska Road and at the national home due to incomplete documentation on the basis of which it was not possible to verify the regularity of the procurement procedure. All preparatory works, lower structures and upper structures on microlocations were also recognised on the basis of contracts, the overlaying of roads by the firehouse and the road section by the Desertnik farm. In 2011, the CPM operator should have completed the unfinished work on Leška cesta, but the work resulting from the bankruptcy procedure of that operator remained unfinished. The works were therefore handed over to another contractor after the tendering process, Gradnja d. o.o., which had not yet completed the part on the Leška road. In addition, it was not possible to determine which work was carried out by the old and which new operator in the application number 4 or the accompanying documentation. Therefore, the application number 4 was rejected and the Municipality of Mežica was invited to complete the application with documentation that would specify the quantity by the old CPM operator of the works carried out and by the supervisory engineer of the certified works already co-financed by the ILO, the first interim situation and the number so much and so, and at the same time accurately defined the quantity by the new contractor Gradnja d. o. o. of the works performed. And one more thing. 27. 6. As the Minister has said, a call has been sent to the Municipality of Mežica to complete the fourth request, and so far there has been no reply. So you have to say all the wages, but on top of that, I'd just say something. The Lord, who is no longer in this hall at this moment, pointed to us here on the left side of the hall and said that we had put Austria's Koroška away from Slovenia. We gave it to him?Oh, my God! First of all, it seems that he does not even know when it was decided that the Austrian part of Slovenia will go to Austria. Everything shows, as I know, that not only in this Chamber, but never in this mandate was there an old man enough to say that he was there when the Austrian part of the Slovenian Koroška went to Austria. That's the first one. And the second thing is: top of the line, it's a lot of shame that someone from SDS can tell the SD party members that we gave Koroška Austria! For God's sake! Whether he has no idea what has actually been going on in history or is so humiliated as we are used to having such a rude, demeaning statement coming from his client. This is indeed a matter for which we should now make a public and clear apology here. And one more thing. I must say, Comrade Gantar, I hope you will replicate. I do not think that this law is suitable for further consideration, because the basis for the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežična Valley is the decision on the rehabilitation programme, that this decree is envisaged to be implemented by 2022, until then until 11 years. And if we manage to give one million euros a year for recovery, I think it will become a green, very beautiful and very healthy valley at this time. So why should a law be adopted at a time when the party proposing the law requires all of it and with all the heat of the early election? I think it's a pointless and unnecessary electoral act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Friday as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We really want early elections, but this isn't a pre-election campaign, so don't worry. We have been waiting for this coalition to be proposed by Pavel Gantar now that you have a majority in Parliament and that the law proposed in 2006 would now be simply adopted. The law was also proposed because the decree is not being implemented. EUR 800 000 is at this minus item, which both municipalities have not received at the expense of this decree. In addition, the 2011 programme has not yet been adopted in the Government and we are today on 15 July. They will work again in September, October, and there will be some short contact. With regard to this comparison of the previous law and this law, this comparison is simple. The law, the first of which was signed by Dr Pavel Gantar, amounted to EUR 2.7 million, at least EUR 10 million for the next 10 years, and this is one of the major differences. Not to mention that there are articles of law that the previous law did not contain. See, that's what Paul Gantar, a farmer's compensation, talked about. We're aware of the state of the country. Even a tolar would not receive farmers directly under this new law, but they only have the opportunity to obtain a concession for the exploitation of state forests. This enables the Forest Act, which was adopted in 2007. This could be done, and instead of having a forest company with a concession in these forests, those farmers who have destroyed a farm or destroyed forest should manage up to 100% of the destroyed forest. And second: prevent the production of grammose for pouring, grammosis that contains too heavy metals. We have a case of a farmer at the Ludran Summit, look, he had a certificate for an eco farm. This crane sand was used to pour him a road past the farm and he lost that certificate. Ten days ago, Dr. Danilo Türk passed by, and the Ombudsman spoke about it. This law prevents the litter from appearing again in the sandboxes in kindergartens, so that it does not spread so that the sandbags do not appear in Mercury, so that the pollution does not spread throughout Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Previously, it has been said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, members are only submitting defamatory and corrupt statements. I don't know on what basis this came to mind, but I'd like to say the following. If anyone has to apologize, then, ma'am, please excuse me. You can't just say it like that: you're making dirty, dirty statements there. If you think what we've been telling you lately is demeaning and corrupt, if we're talking about this government being incompetent, that it can't lead Slovenia, that it's irresponsible things – if that's humiliating, if that's broken, please ask voters what they think. Then why do you fight to ask voters if they really think so? As far as my colleague's concerned, [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I? But as for the colleague you're talking to, you need to ask him. Otherwise, I have a sense of what he meant, what he meant. I don't know, he may have expressed himself a little awkwardly, but he didn't say everything, but in the interviews we've had over and over again, it was about who sold Koroška, meaning what's been going on with bilingual boards lately. In the previous term, that proposal, which was prepared, offered many more bilingual inscriptions than it is now, and if he meant it, ask him [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u141	Mr Petan, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u142	Mr President, I would just like to ask that if there is such a general accusation that one party submits defiant and corrupt statements that, if nothing else, it will at least be recalled. Someone can't just say, on average and across the board: everyone on that side, you've got dirty, dirty statements. That's what I'm protesting. I think this is a corrected procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u143	Mr Petan, this was not a procedural proposal by procedure that could be put to the vote. However, I must say that the problem of this Parliament is very often expressed precisely in speaking left, right, you are, you are, and such generalisations are very often in this Parliament, which I personally do not like. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u144	I will make a concrete procedural proposal for a change, Mr Vice-President. I suggest you look for a magnetogram, a record of what Mr Bezjak said about how we, he said, put Koroška away. He said something similar, and then I demand that Mr Bezjak apologize, as I said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u145	Nor was this a procedural proposal that could be put to the vote, and please avoid the use and misuse of the Rules of Procedure. Dr. Gantar has the word to prepare Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'll be there real quick. Time's running out. First of all, you're correcting me by saying that marriage is bad. No, I didn't say that the bill was bad, but I said that it was inappropriate, that there was a lot of criticism, that it needed to be corrected in the second reading, and if it could not be corrected, it would have to be rejected. Another matter to which colleague Pecan expects an answer. Look, I think the following, and I thought this at the time and also today – that the Environmental Protection Act allows decisions to be taken after it has been corrected for certain types of environmental rehabilitation for normal environmental problems. I think there are some problems in Slovenia that are super problems and have very complex effects, and here I have always advocated the adoption of special laws. The border valley is certainly one of these, due to the diversity of both the forms of burden and the consequences it causes. In order not to go too far, because I will not have time, once again, we will support the law in order to initiate a second reading through the amendments a serious debate on criticism, a professional criticism that has come to this law to be understood. What's the deal with this land change now? One of them is adamantly refusing. I think it's acceptable in certain cases. And even so, some feel that nothing has to be asphalted, others feel that everything has to be asphalted. We need to talk about these things, and it's only right that we talk through this. Now I say that if the marriage is not going to be like this or if it gets even worse, God forbid, from the decree, then we will reject it in our Group of Members. But if it is better and it is adopted, it will be replaced by a decree, and it is once again the same for the government. But I wouldn't fool around with millions. I hope that this recovery will require as little as possible millions, but it will be necessary. That is why I would not be proud of them and would not be putting them at the forefront now, even though we expect a more accurate calculation below 10 million; the size class is still too big for me right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Friday has the floor as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u148	There's been a lot of discussion about this land exchange. It was estimated that the Republic of Slovenia does not make enough money to replace all this land in the Mežíska Valley, it simply does not. But only if the ground is replaced at kindergarten or at school, for God's sake, and it's taken to a dump and poisoned, there's no need to make science out of it. Of course, I would now like to be glued to this law by someone who would like to do some professional studies and who would like to make a good living here. Dr. Lobnik, a world eminence in pedology, was amazed to learn about the pollution of the land in the Mežíska Valley. He couldn't believe it, because normal limit values go beyond 100 times. The only solution is to change the earth — but where, who will transform it? There are world practices, Bunker Hill exists, nearer Arnoldstein in Austria's Koroška, where this matter has been rectified relatively cheaply and relatively successfully. This is also followed by this programme, but despite the fact that this money is provided in the budget, there is simply no dynamics. According to my information, the Municipality of Mežica responded to all these comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you. And Mrs. Pecan, a replica of Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The first thing I would like to say is that I agree with and there is no doubt that there is a need to be very much rehabilitated in the Mežiški valley – not only in the Mežiški valley, but also in the Celje Valley, but also elsewhere in Slovenia – but if we have a solution for the Mežiški valley, because we do not yet have a resolution for the Celje Valley in the form of a resolution on the rehabilitation programme, if we have a programme, why do we not do it as we should? Why don't we get professional grounds to know how to deal with this rehabilitation, and to focus precisely on the most threatened and then increasingly on the broad side, and not to go to law school – now I have to say in particular. First, in 2011 this law would not have come into operational form at all, but would have been significantly more useful. The decree will be annulled, it is said that then we will have a void where nothing will happen. I don't think that makes any sense. For God's sake, the Ministry of the Environment and Space should step into the municipality of Miži, and it should be borne in mind that the people who are at the Ministry should be moved by those who have been assigned to carry out their work on an operational basis! I really don't understand why it is so urgent here to adopt a law for something that the previous government adopted four years ago. Now, for 4 years, some things are being done very slowly, but now that the money is available, we could really grab things or bulls by horns, as they say, and start doing things, not enacting laws. Like Churchill said, "When you don't want to do something, quickly form a commission." But with us: If you don't want to do something, make a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I think that we should, however, be right to each other and not confuse with the proposals for laws that are being tabled in the National Assembly. This law actually causes confusion. In fact, we have already talked about the Mezije Valley in Parliament and also on the Committee on the Environment many times. Last but not least, see the Environmental Protection Act in fact allowed the government, on the basis of the results of environmental pollution measurements and pollution comparisons in 1989, 2001, 2002, to establish that the environment in the area part of the Upper Mežiški valley is classified as the highest load class in relation to the provisions on limit, warning and critical emission values of hazardous substances in soil. This has already been established, published in the Official Journal, the programme is being implemented. The fact is that there is a critical emission value of lead, cadmium and zinc, very serious matters in this area, and a measure to improve the quality of the environment in this decree, which is already published in the Official Journal, which is in force and implemented, is also included in the first indent "replacement of polluted land and the sowing of grass on public areas intended for the retention of children, overcoating of public areas" and so on. The identical measures are listed in this law, and today someone who does not know all of these rules and listens to us will get the feeling, look, Slovenia has not done anything in this period to solve this serious pollution in the Mežiški valley. That's not true. That's not true. I'm just going to give a brief description of what we're dealing with in the last period. Clearly, it is a systematic approach to try something that has already been adopted and implemented by this government to be seen as something that has not been solved at all until, say, representatives of the SDS Group have passed the law. A similar example is the White Land Act. We have adopted a law on promoting coherent regional development, which has also given us a legal basis for the implementation of the Pocolpian programme, which solves the economic and financial crisis in the White landscape and in Kočevska, and even though we are in the middle of the implementation of this programme, we are trying to mislead the public in the way of introducing a law on development support to the White landscape and making an impression that nothing has been done by the Government, as if the National Assembly had not decided on this and as if there were no 300 million Euros provided for the Crop. All of this has already been done, but the law is still being passed to try to displace the public and show, look, we're the only ones who're making laws. And at the end of this term, you'll probably draw the line and say, look, we've made so many laws, we haven't been accepted, but we wanted so well. But you never say that a large part of these proposals are actually already being implemented in practice, whether they are legal or are being implemented on the basis of sub-legislative acts that have the basis of a roof law. And it's exactly the same with the Mishik Valley. You have also written in your own assessment of the financial implications that funds from the state budget, which are already provided for by a decree which I have quoted and adopted in the government, are published in the Official Journal – so that there is no need for additional resources because the financial consequences are the same as in the already published Decision. There are no additional requirements, and the dynamics are the same. From 2012 to 2022, EUR 10 million is to be earmarked for this purpose. I understand and I think it is possible to be well-intentioned if we understand this debate today as a problem that this year, because of problems I have somehow understood, some dynamics are not being implemented in operators. But it's not the fault on the prescription. The regulation has been adopted, is in force, and if we adopt another law on the regulation in force today, nothing will change in practice, but there will be more confusion. And just because we are not causing further confusion, it is better not to put in such laws that actually do not allow anything new, but only make things worse because of confusion, and I think it would be better if we proposed that we ask the question of a Member of Parliament if we open the debate on the Environment Committee to take note of this implementation report. Finally, this is also one of the Committee's annual tasks because we are considering a report on the implementation of the rehabilitations in the Mežíska Valley. All of these are completely lost paths, and we have talked about this many times. And I can safely say that neither the National Assembly nor the Committee on the Environment have ever been against measures to reduce the pollution of the Mishik Valley. Never! The debate has always gone in the direction that the issue needs to be rectified, but we can't just fix it ad hoc, we can't think of it. One programme must be adopted, the programme must then also be monitored, measured and then, in practice, become familiar with the environment, residents and others who are interested in knowing what is actually happening in this valley or in this region of Slovenia. I understand and I am merely trying to be well-intentioned on your part that this law has been tabled today in order to alert you that a segment of this decision will accelerate this programme in its implementation. Let us be correct and make this clear, at least because of all those who do not monitor this problem daily. I appreciate, and in fact it is also so that this law is unnecessary, as was the unnecessary law on the White Land, but colleague Renata is still explaining to the people of the White Land what will happen now that this law will not be passed in the National Assembly. Let us be honest, this law is unnecessary, and therefore it cannot be accepted, because a programme for the development of the Cavalry is already under way and the matter is under way. In fact, we are wasting time at meetings of the National Assembly with proposals for laws that really do not provide solutions but cause confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Friday as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I strongly agree with my colleague, but not with his statement that the decision is being implemented. The decree is not implemented, it is a fact. With regard to the questions sent: if you look at this set of questions sent, you will say that I am already a bit liquid. I have more than 130 questions. And I didn't stop them on this subject, including the former minister. Former Minister Karl Erjavec when he was in Koroška 2. 4. In 2009, he stated that the production of gravel and other sand grenades by Construction material d.o.o. in Žerjavo would have to be stopped. And it explains with data why, how much in sand and sinks exceed heavy metal content. Finally, it states: "However, in 2009 it will be necessary to amend the decree by preventing the use of materials in the Upper Mežiški valley that exceed the limits of the Regulation on limit, warning and critical IMIS values of hazardous substances in the soil." That's what he said or answered my question 5. 6. 2009 Today, however, we are on July 15, 2011, and nothing has happened. That's what the law stipulates. Since there has been no change in the decision in this area, nothing has happened, and we have written this down in the law so that the whole of Slovenia will not be polluted. When you go to Mercury and buy a bag of sand, you will get exports of Korean lead, zinc and heavy metals. Let's move on. On 26 January 2011, Maribor Institute of Health carried out analyses of the mush and sand for watering, which are filled in by the construction materials of the Maribor Road Company in Žerjav. Analyses of the sink and sand for watering, used in front of houses and blocks by Slovenian residents during the winter, and can be bought in Mercury, have shown that lead and cadmium are significantly above critical and limit value. We Slovenians have thus bought bags in shops with a sink for which an analysis by the Maribor Institute for Health Care or its Institute for Environmental Protection has shown that cadmium in dry matter is 55 times more than the critical value allowed and lead in the sink is 16 times more than the permitted value. Cadmium in the dry matter 52 times higher. All of these are potentials at 10. And I also asked the minister what they would do in this area. What was the answer? This is a matter of the Ministry of Economy, not the Ministry of Environment and Space. Isn't that right, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Minister has also made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much. That's the last sentence I'd go on. We have been trying to achieve this for some time at the Ministry of the Economy. I hope now that your invitation to do so will make us more successful. Personally, I find it unacceptable to exploit contaminated material. But there's something else I'd like to ask you to do. Please help us with the local authorities so that their response is appropriate. As far as enforcement is concerned, we do everything. If the local authorities do not respond with the relevant documents in order to meet the payments, we must not implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Grill, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u158	Dear President, I would only ask you to repeat such debates as Mr Weber, who again cited the White Land Act and deceived people that this law was introduced out of populism, that this law does not bring anything. That's not true! That's not true! And Mrs Brunskole is also deceiving that it is now the opposition's fault that this law has not been passed. Together you deceive, and be aware that the blame is solely yours, both for the White Land Act and for this law, which you will obviously not support! These are the laws that Slovenia needs, and I ask that you do not divert attention from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u159	Mr Grill, we have already had this situation that there were procedural proposals which were not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure; this was once again one such. Mr. Weber, do you also want a procedural proposal? No, it wasn't a debate, it wasn't a replica. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mencinger.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I was just waiting for her. First of all, I would like to say that in this debate I very much do not like to hear that there is something of ours and something of yours. The Cross Valley is an integral part of Slovenia, our common country, and the people who live there are our brothers by nationality and we wish them all good. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the former country too, that we will not only blame this authority, for years and years, exploiting the valley of Mezi, exploiting nature, devouring it, and at the same time exploiting the people who lived and worked there. Unfortunately, this exploitation has consequences, has geographical consequences, has demographic consequences, has economic consequences, and the exploitation of lead and zinc mines has also left environmental consequences. I think I've made them very exact. And these consequences need to be addressed and resolved. That's what people deserve. It is true that the Government has adopted a decree on areas of maximum environmental burden and on a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. It maintains that this decree is in force and has similar objectives and purposes as the law has, but the applicant is not so ignorant or ignorant that he does not know why he wants to change. It's probably the first reason a decree exists, but it's not being implemented. This may be a vital reason for the law to resolve the above - mentioned content. Secondly, we all know that, based on the legal position, the law is stronger than the decree; the decree is a sub-law and the law is binding, meaning a commitment and some probability, a high probability that this law actually begins to solve problems. Thirdly, whatever we are talking about this law, the purpose is very clearly defined. The purpose of the proposal for a law on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški valley is to provide financial resources from the state budget, namely 10 million 700 000, provided for by law, between 2012 and 2022. We all understand and know that this moment is a difficult economic and financial situation in this country, but here I have to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, once again, but really hard to remember, let us slowly put this into our heads. First, we wanted to help different regions, including Koroška, by means of the aid law. He was thrown out. As Slovenia, we wanted to help Slovenians with the White Krajina Act. He wasn't accepted. Now we're back on one case when he's gone. But you know, slow down, man of all these, I'm tired of making very rude decisions. Why? Yesterday we were able to find out that there was some €15 million damage in the storm of the previous days. It hurts, you know, then – I believe the government is well-intentioned – the government says: now we will help with 25,000 euros. I'm talking about 15 million damage, to help, I think, 25 thousand euros have been said – were there 250 thousand? 250 grand, I'm sorry. But still 250,000 euros against 15 million. But still calmly, peacefully, we meet our "commitments" to the European Union with 250 million loans to Greece. Look, now that's enough! We forget about Slovenia! We're going to pay $250,000 for 15 million. Here we are saying that 10 million in 10 years is a crazy problem. But give 250 million not to talk about the guarantee and what you have heard about how they are preparing Greece's organised bankruptcy in Europe, and you know what bankruptcy means – debt write-off. That means we're not going to get what we're going to give, but let's leave it. Let us start this Slovenia once and say to someone: Dear gentlemen, we have helped as much as we can, from here on out we will help ourselves. And last but not least, there is no duality. We can't have the decree and the law. If there's a law that some of us agree with, then others won't, it'll probably be the law of the decree. All that the decree brings, I speak materially, and it can be introduced and added to the marriage. It is true, however, that the law must correct this and clearly define it in the law - such as legal procedures, I am not a lawyer - to repeal the decree, to enter into force the law and to transpose certain content of the decree into law. I believe that the law as stronger than the decree will bring some guarantees and ensure that the content described in Article 4 of this Act will also actually be implemented. I am very sorry, but my colleagues in the coalition themselves have admitted that if the decision is not implemented, the decision must be struck at the table and the decision must be implemented. The evidence is that the decision is not implemented, and the consequence of the failure to implement the decision is a desire for law. The law, however, brings the absolutely required right that the Korosks have, as we will have in Zasavje after the mining has ended, but there are slightly minor consequences, such as the consequences of lead and zinc, while not saying how probably health care in Koroška is not so privileged and has more competence because people have been sicker because of lead and zinc, and that we are not talking about their transport connections being rakrana for years and years. Indeed, we cannot and cannot work with any part of Slovenia in such a way as to throw it a law on aid, so that we do nothing on infrastructure connectivity, on roads, on health care, or in the recovery of the urgent need for the rehabilitation that people living here require. But don't say five words to one province! I will support this law and expect it to be legally properly and also substantively properly designed, but from the government I expect it to be once, not just the government, but that we will all once tell someone: no, sorry, we will give you 50 million less. Specifically, Portugal or Greece, if you like, and we will give these 50 million to us, to our Slovenes and to the Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u161	Procedurally, Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u162	Mr President, I am procedurally proposing that the National Assembly maintain the procedure provided for both in the Rules of Procedure and in the Law on Cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, so that, if a roof law is adopted, a sub-legislative act will then be adopted to address the particular problem. And so I would like to explain to Mr Barovic once again that the state budget provides money for the rehabilitation of the Mežič Valley. Therefore, the State has done all it can to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. The legal acts are committed, the money in the budget is guaranteed that there will be no confusion, and the local community must do its part to make the case loose in practice. The same goes for the White Land Act. Procedurally, I suggest that we keep the law of promotion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u163	Comrade Weber, please finish because you know that you are discussing, controversy, replicating, and that a procedural proposal cannot be put to the vote. Please complete the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u164	I only propose that we procedurally insist on what we have in our Rules of Procedure, and this law in fact, if the Legislative and Legal Service gave [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber, thank you. Such procedural proposals, Mr Tanko, have been quite a bit today. In these years you have given them 206; 610 minutes or 10 hours we have spent on your procedural proposals. So much as statistical information. Minister Roko Žarnic spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u166	Your Honor! If there's no doubt, I'll be very brief. I strongly reject the idea that the decision is not implemented! Each year, it's a million-dollar implementation of the decree. This year, despite the rebalancing, the rebalancing has not gone up or down in this direction, but I agree that the decree is flawed, as well as the law in the future, unless it has strict sanctions to prevent implementation on the part of the local community, which unresponsibly makes it impossible for us to implement the decree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Tom Mencinger has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the bill, because in fact this law regulates some situation as a result of mining, and I can also say metallurgy as such. That is why I expect us to approach a single solution to these problems in Slovenia, which means that the conditions for solving these problems and the same meter for the whole region of Slovenia should be equal. Here we have an opportunity to listen to demagogy and EPP for electoral purposes. We have heard that in 2005 the law was proposed and rejected, on the same subject, but with much smaller amounts. However, we are witnessing the current state budget rebalancing, so that we can actually see what this is all about. The next thing is: I am sure that as such local communities should be involved in these things, including through a programme. It must be said that they have had such and different benefits, including mining or metallurgy, or I do not know which industry is currently burdensome. So we all deserve a truly healthy environment and respect for these environmental standards that are prescribed. So I can see that this is being really implemented even now in practice. But I would just mention a possible problem; we had our own problems, and we still have them with the slag as such. We've been alerting that slag, we've been writing. The result is damage. We are talking about the destruction of local roads, as well as objects, having mechanical problems, so we are essentially in a situation similar to, say, colleagues from Mizica. So I'm actually expecting a unified approach and a unified solution to these issues, as I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. He has the word Silva Čnugelj, to be prepared by Miran Györek and followed by Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. You've eaten me exactly ten seconds and my colleagues the same because you've listed who should be prepared – just so procedurally, but fine. Since now it's time to talk about the Mizica Mine [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u171	When you put the microphone on, Mrs. Nigga, it's important. Wait till I'm done and then plug in the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u172	All right, thank you so much for the heads-up. It's good to know because technology isn't everyone knows. About the Dwarf, the lead, the cadmium and the zinc. I personally knew Dr. Franz Gregorac, who was the head of the separation, and also for some time, the head of the Mesica mine. He also wrote a rich book of memories in this area. At that time, in 1986 and 1987, when he began the mine closing process, he himself made an effort and also called upon countless experts from various parts of Europe who had advised on how to rehabilitate such a degraded area. Calculations and measurements were also made. Prior governments accelerated the process and allocated certain funds in 2002 to determine the degree of pollution by zinc, cadmium and lead. Some experts say that certain data may also be overblown, as we want to inflate those 13 million who are supposed to be heading for the rehabilitation of the Meži valley. I wish this valley had been cured. All the rehabilitations of the mines that have been done so far should have been done in such a way as to have much more jobs than the result of all the rehabilitations in Slovenia so far, because we know how many new jobs we have obtained and why there was too little emphasis on the jobs given. It was more or less about environmental regulation and so on. Maybe the experiment is also to see what kind of feedback it will be – whether the land exchange is the model that would in some way be acceptable to those in this part of Slovenia and in this part of Slovenia. However, we can see that the basic dilemma is not just a decree or a law, the validity of one, the implementation of the other, because most things are done under the letter of the law. More or less, it is a matter of methodology and systematics in the rehabilitation of such areas. Because if we gave priority to reviving all those lost jobs and reviving the work of all the experts who lost their jobs in the area, then surely the whole story would be different. But stories in all cases, from Trbovlje and so on, that I do not list all the mines that we have saved – if we made an analytical comparison with the rehabilitation of mines, as a colleague said, in Austria or England, not least some in France, we would see that control over the rehabilitation and execution of this segment of employment and the recovery of the work of the place, which has actually suffered the most when it lost its jobs. Since the decision to close certain mines, including the merciless ones, was primarily due to the fact that the ore itself was no longer profitable or exploited in itself, not in this way, but in the past. The programme of the critical emission area, the values – what is more important, the dust particles or the recovery of the area. This is a dilemma that will certainly be discussed. Thank you so much for saying that. And you'll tell your colleagues, those of you who still have a chance, something more substantive about this part of the story.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole has the word, then Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Very nice greetings, Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am joining all the debates before me, both colleagues from Pecan, colleague of Vebra and all other colleagues who have said and highlighted many arguments about the proposal for the recovery of the Upper Mežiški Valley Act, why the Law on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley is not necessary. When a person takes a good look at and reads the bill, he will find out, and I will, as far as possible, be one of my colleagues, who has already mentioned it today, and in recent months we have had a lot of times and I have talked about it myself. We talked about putting the development axes in space, but now I will establish this word here in conjunction with this bill because we find that this bill is in some way just a decree on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley. The fact is that we have adopted, as has been pointed out several times today, the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. That is why we also know why there was no decision and also the adoption of individual laws, both in relation to the sub-regional region and also to the White landscape, where I was also a co-signatory as co-signatory and so on. As far as the White Land Act is concerned, I must point out in connection with some of the previous words that it is not a matter of any deceiving. Deception is when one of us says: we propose this law and this law, and if this law, which proposes 600 million euros for road infrastructure, such as for the third development axis, is the southern part. And someone says: if the law proposed for the period 2013 – 2013 is two years ahead, that is to say for the future. If we say for the period until 2013 until 2016, this law has not been passed, and then someone declares: The white landscape has lost 600 million. It's a lot of deception, a lot of deception, or for the Valley of Men to say it. That's not the way, that's not the truth! The key fault is then for those who are first-signed candidates, such as my colleague Grill, and at the meeting of the local self-government committee – okay, not a member of the committee, so another colleague, a colleague of Lah, who is a member of the committee, came, but since we were four candidates, I was surprised that the colleagues of the SDS Group were not all four members in the meeting. We only voted three, one of the candidates, two of the SDS and myself. Thus, the law had already been rejected on the Committee because we were 3 for and 8 against not talking about the fact that several other colleagues, including the opposition parliamentary groups, who might or might not have supported it, were unfortunately not in addition to the vote. This isn't about deceiving in this direction. Deception is when someone says there's so much money in advance. The fact is one thing, and that is why I am here with my colleague Grill – we have both been home in the history of New City, from the same local community, so that I really do not resent his words, although they are a little guilty of me, but nevertheless let me say that we do not resent him because he did not participate as a representative of the local community in the Pokoplje programme, but we have both been a Member, as well as as as the mayor, in this matter. In connection with the adopted Pocolpa programme, the fact is that EUR 20 million has been adopted to encourage entrepreneurship, that it is more than EUR 300 million for transport infrastructure and, inter alia, for the third development axis. These are facts, and I wish people knew that truth. Not to say: we lost 600 million, what was supposed to be added in 2013. That's something that will happen if it does. I would also like to see the next government mandate realize that the times will be better, that we will come again, as we say, either to thick pears or fat cows, that is, to better times, and that we will be able to provide the means. In relation to all those who live and live in the Upper Mežična Valley area, I agree that in the case of some findings, some possible current shortcomings or a lack of effective implementation of the decision should be accelerated. On the other hand, in this direction, the decree itself should guarantee what the inhabitants and everyone else deserve. Therefore, I will not support the Law on the Recovery of the Upper Mežiške Dolina itself, but I would like all the necessary instruments to be put in place to help this area of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been adopted by decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word to prepare Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I have to tell my forerunner that I am happy with this frankness when he says he counts on better times for the next government. Of course they will be better, but in the light of the bad times, the current governments will still be difficult. But now that we're at Koroška. It seems that this bad dot will also remain in this area of the new government, because already, as we see it, the decree does not comply and it is therefore futile to say that the funds are in the budget if they are not realised. But why is he going? We probably do not close our eyes or anyone else to say that this recovery of the Upper Mushroom Valley is not necessary because the burden of heavy metals that are harmful to health is extremely high. But when my fellow Member, Miro Petek, is investing, he is working, he is making laws, he is trying to make this happen, so that it will be finally done, he will continue to be misunderstood, and even now I have heard a lot of misunderstanding there on those sides. And you know, I was born with an association. After the end of World War I in 1918, General Maister, and on his behalf, I don't know, Lieutenant or Major or what he was, Malgay, defended himself, tried to defend Slovenian Koroška, but the great Koroška, the one who remained in Austria, and begged and begged the then Ljubljana government of the Knight of Pogačnik for reinforcements, for help [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u177	Comrade Jerovšek, would you mind going to the dark? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u178	Mr President, I thought at least you would understand, but I'm sorry. Look, there was no understanding. There was no understanding. They refused if you went crazy, and we lost Koroška then, we lost a large part of Koroška. Now I have an association that somehow you are back to being the then Ljubljana government, in association. For when Miro Petek asks you to save this Koroška that we have left, we do this, you refuse, you act like the then Ljubljana government, which caused enormous damage to Slovenia, that we do not have Koroška today. Before, there was a dilemma, but it was the right path with the law. Yeah, why not? This narrow valley has some special status due to its burden, unfortunately a negative status after the burden. Just as the capital had or had some special status, we passed the Capital Act and you all supported it, additional funds. Now, when it comes to small resources in this case, when it comes to the involvement of an area that needs to be resolved, you're a front against it, and I think that those of you who have shown further aspirations today after the President of the National Assembly are not doing you any favors. I don't think it's good that you think it's positive, and we actually have to do it. Let us not make the mistakes made by the predecessors in Ljubljana in the past, in history, and here, in fact, when Mrs Pecan previously responded to someone who lost Koroška – in fact, we will lose much again if she obeys your policy not to help, not to realize, not to do what has already been concluded, which should have been done by decree. But if we have such authority that the decree is a non-binding matter, then we must be aware in this national assembly that it is necessary to move this to a higher level and ensure this implementation and this compulsion for the Government through a legal solution. I hope we do this, and don't say that it doesn't have to be, that it's not appropriate. If you have a government that is parallel to the then Ljubljana government of the Pogačnik knight who lost so much Slovenia, then you cannot trust and must be forced by law to do so by this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Brad Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thanks for the chance. Mr Jerovšek, I just want to say it again. The decree was adopted at the end of 2007. You've accepted it, your government. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, 3 million €55 000 556 was used to rehabilitate the Meziska Valley on the basis of this decree. And in this year's budget – I think there is no intermediate year between 2010 and 2011, because if I can count on something – EUR 800 000 is foreseen, there will be a million euros in the budget balance. If the Municipality of Mežica knows how to implement its programme in the right way, 4 million euro will be spent within 4 years, while you anticipate in your law at 11 years, say and write, 10 million euro, says less than it was spent here per year. That's it! We've done our job! And you're only one part, in 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has Ivan Grill, get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anyone who remembers the various meetings of the CK and February during the former Yugoslavia, how they beat and cried with fist after table: we should, we will have to! A lot of talk, a lot of action. Now it's the same thing. With this government, with this coalition: we should, we should, we will, we have system laws, we have this decree, we have that decree, we have everything, we have nothing. Look, that's a fact. Even that, Mrs Pečan, when you say, when you mention, if the congregations in the valley of Mežíší, do theirs, then the country will do itss. Look, that's a cheap excuse. That's a cheap excuse. Many times the ministry postpones or conditions if the congregation does something, so will we. Then, in case the congregation manages to crack money to do something, of course, the country will change its mind. A concrete example in the New Town when it wanted to build a home for older citizens: if the Municipality of Novo mesto will provide a million euros, the Ministry of Social and Family will contribute 3 million. Once we're there, the ministry's nothing. It's the same story at the Mishik Valley, the same story. And this law, look, this law, such as it is, can't do anything, nothing that's being done now can be canceled. The transitional provisions, or the articles themselves, may bring this matter in. It doesn't hurt! And also that money that my colleague Pecan mentioned earlier — it is right that this money was also devoted to spending, but apparently this is not enough. It's not enough! To talk about the system law that all the areas we have will be disputed or degraded by mines – see, we have a lot of this in Slovenia, I agree with that. No mine has brought good things to the environment. He's left bad consequences everywhere, but we need to separate priorities. I am firmly convinced that this lead mine, which was there, has left in that environment truly so severe the ecological consequences that affect human health and life, and it should have started many, many years ago with a serious rehabilitation of this. And now it is clear that this law will not be supported because it is systematically regulated that we have everything that we need to do. But I call you, then let you do it. You've been in government since 2008, and you're in power, and nothing is done! Is it possible that the previous government, which adopted this in 2007, could have done so? If anything's happened, it's not enough. Not enough. Yes, you can laugh here now, but colleague Miro Petek, who lives there, the people who told us these things when we were visiting them, are speaking just the opposite of what you're spending. You made the same story when there was a law on development support for Koroška. You said no, you said no, you said no. And here is the truth that Koroška is also forgotten by this government and coalition, as well as the White Land. The law on Pomour – in the Slovenian Democratic Party we supported it despite the fact that there was a law on coherent regional development at the time. I'm sure that marriage doesn't hurt, not each other, but it could help make Pomurje develop more quickly. But apparently again the matter does not work, except for some of the types of SD that have already been obtained with their hands in marmalade, which have tried by means of this law unjustifiably to obtain certain funds. So to talk about some of these, I can say, overturned excuses, that it's populism, that we're going here to campaign for the election when we propose such laws – I think it's irresponsible if I don't use any more bad words. And now what Mrs Brunskole explained earlier. It is distasteful that it is the responsibility of the committee, where 8 members of the anti-law coalition – there, of course, you have also scanned this law, put it under the carpet – that the opposition, the law, not the virtual one, is responsible for it, and not the virtual one, Zares and DeSUS. They're part of this coalition, but a little cover-up. They're in the shadows, they're a coalition in the shadows, if that's what we call it. And now my colleague Brunskole says that the 600 million went out of business. Yeah, where'd it go?Oh, my God! Where did it go other than to nothing?Oh, my God! Even if that Law on the Chopper or what it was about now was how much that money would bring — let it bring, but I'm sure that money will be too little, and certainly not as much as you're all trying to brag about here. It's not enough. And we, Mr. Weber, answer how many jobs you have opened up in the White Country, how many companies have managed to get rid of this – nothing! How close are we to the third development axis? Things are moving away, and that perverted act, when you're all telling us that that marriage wasn't until 2013. It is true that the year 2013 was written. Why? Since the procedure in the National Assembly does not allow the introduction of a law which has implications for the 2011 and 2012 budget, but amendments could, of course, be made with effect from this law in force 1. 1. 2012 and in this balance adopted by the Government on Thursday, part of the funds could also be provided. By saying such excuses here – people don't believe you. They really don't believe you. Be honest, be honest and also take responsibility for all the bad decisions you have made as a coalition and the government, especially that you have rejected those well-meaning proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also what other true, genuine opposition parties, not those virtual ones. So I firmly believe that it would be right to support this Act on the Recovery of the Mishik Valley, to find some complements, some need, and then to come up with a solution that will really contribute to the speedy recovery of this. I'll be happy to support this marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Just past the lead. Comrade Grill, not about the parties, so that the support of this law doesn't fall. Procedurally, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u184	I would like to make it procedurally clear to Mr Grill that the procedure for the call for assistance is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u185	You've got a replica, replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u186	Replica, yes. I'm replicating because it requires me to tell you how many jobs we've provided. On 30 June 2011, Mr Grill, the invitation to tender was concluded. 66 companies have applied, 66 companies – they are being processed right now! And what I was going to say is that you're confusing with the laws you're making needlessly - I was surprised when the investor called me, but what about now with this money, or I won't get it because the White Country Development Support Act was rejected in Parliament. I said: no, listen, this law duplicates measures and is totally unnecessary. You've made a mess, and don't make a mess. This is the truth, and I will be happy to tell you that the Old Market near Kolpa, from there he also called me, will provide 30 jobs in the plant that went into liquidation! And you almost stopped it by the law that you filed for unnecessary, and you made a mess of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Replica, Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I feel responsible for people who trust me to know the truth. And it is right to say it again, perhaps again, another truth, and this truth is that it applies in the state budget what has already been adopted, which is already mentioned. And the fact is that the funds for the Pocolpium programme, i.e. EUR 20 million, I will repeat again, and over EUR 300 million for transport infrastructure, that this is tax relief and so on. The Pokolpja programme has been published publicly and can be read and studied. Of course, in addition to all these matters, there is real concern that in some way people want to get confused, especially when it is done when people are most difficult. Believe me, people at that moment don't believe those who just attack, believe it. And one of the matters of Pokolpija is also electricity in the Semić area, where there will also be an establishment with hundreds of new jobs. There's something interesting. In previous mandates, and this is not an obvious statement by any government, the colleague’s emphasis was on the need to allocate electricity. But unfortunately it wasn't. I am also afraid that there will be no electricity eclipse in the White Land area, but this will certainly be the case as well. That's why it's too bad to argue. The State budget provides for funds, but what would be the White Country Act should only be adopted for 2013. So, Belokranjka and Belokranjka have lost nothing so far, and they will not lose anything by adopting the balance. That's the truth, and that's the fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, you want to talk about using the Rules of Procedure? The replica, Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u190	I'll do it again. We're not in the mill, but it looks like we have to do it ten times in this mill. The law proposed by the first-signed Mr Tanko foresees EUR 10 million in 11 years, which amounts to EUR 900 000 per year. In the 4 years in force of the Resolution on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežičska Valley, 4 million euros will be spent by the end of this year, which is 100,000 euros per year. As money has been spent, I think it is necessary for the budget inspection to take a little look at the accounts there in the Valley of Mežiška. And you, Mr. Grill, learn math!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, from all this debate here, I think that the ILO has consistently implemented the decree after all its letters. If there is nothing, I would be grateful for the written, properly documented indication of what has not been done so far at the ILO. We'll answer that right away. And I'd be very unhappy if I had the money at the end of the year on the item that's meant to do that. And rest assured, here I say in public that I will do everything in accordance with the rules, legislation, accounting standards, whatever, we will settle all matters as soon as we have the appropriate documentation on the implementation of the works. However, if inspections are to be made to determine how the money was spent – I also agree with this initiative, and I am not afraid that anything has been done wrong in our ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Miro Friday on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you. See, Minister, last year, contracts were signed in October, contracts with the Municipality of Montenegro and the Municipality of Mežica in October, but given that the Government had adopted this program of rehabilitation so late. One third of the funds have been used to rehabilitate the Upper Mežiški Valley from the millions that are being discussed today. That's the truth. So the funds in last year's budget remained.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you very much. He has a word for Jože Tanko, to prepare Anton Anderlich and after him Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that in one such positive proposal for one part of Slovenia as this, there is no need for such, I would say, a rough discussion and such verbal accounting with those who have proposed this solution. I don't think that's necessary. I am pleased that some other groups of Members, not only those of the original opposition, have expressed their support in this national assembly, but also those who have come to the opposition. I must say that I am also pleased with this initiative that you are also willing to participate in the drafting of amendments to this law. If anything and if anything is to be found after this general debate in further consideration, that it is necessary to eliminate, either on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or on the basis of professional proposals, or to accelerate the dynamics of implementation and to provide additional resources, then we will certainly accept it, and I propose that we adopt such a solution. I think this is the most normal step, the most normal measure we can take if we want to solve the problem in this part of Slovenia, which has actually been facing a number of years with heavy environmental burdens. Whether the decree is a sufficient basis or a necessary law, I do not think there should be any dilemma. The law is a statutory act adopted by the National Assembly, the law is an act on which we can also ask the government and impose certain things on it. But the decree is in the original jurisdiction of the government, and he does what he wants with it. He does what he wants. That is why I think it is necessary to raise this matter to the legal level and to address this environmental burden in some legal and systematic way. And all that's missing from this thing is that it can be properly added. I do not want this law to be affected by the fate of the White Krajina Act, when the National Assembly decided that the law was a suitable basis for further consideration, but then it was manipulated on the working body, and the coalition majority, which has a majority in all working bodies, did not provide further support or accept amendments, nor did it propose any amendments. If it was too late in 2013, I could propose an amendment if it had a serious intention to move more rapidly in this process. If the amounts were too small, I could increase them. If any of the aid structures were missing, I could add. However, the decision within the coalition was to reject this law. I would not want this law to experience a similar fate when it received majority support for it in plenary session, and then for various reasons, especially political, not substantive, would not give further support to this law, nor would they try to improve it. In the legislative process, we had many, many worse laws, such as the White Land Act and the Koroška Act, and such a law, you have adequately repaired them. We had more government or coalition amendments than the law of the articles, and this was done with corrections, by voting then in addition and by adoption. That's what happened. There are several such cases in this mandate. Therefore, it seems to me that this accusation, while the accuser does not even know the rules of how the law can be proposed, unless it is proposed by the government, at least what it is, is an offensive accusation, indicating, above all, that those who inspire themselves on what, what and how it was proposed do not know the fundamental rules necessary for the submission of the law. If the opposition bill is proposed, it clearly states that it can only start that year when the budget has not yet been adopted. The government may, for the year when the budget is adopted, of course, the coalition, because certain things can be provided or voted by force in the College of the President of the National Assembly. Even so- tabled laws, if there is a need, if there is a desire in the coalition, if there is a desire in those who have the majority, can be corrected and can be changed. All those who are a little more familiar with these procedures for accepting these things, we know that and we ensure that this is the case. And there's another thing. This debate is often opened here between a systematic and a partial approach. You know, despite the fact that we have adopted a system law on coherent regional development, we have preserved two partial laws, the law on Pomour and the law on the capital. Neither of these two laws have been repealed by the system law, and they have both been adopted in this mandate. Those who say that something causes confusion, you must first clear things up with yourself because you have preserved two exceptions, two partial solutions. And when others suggested similar solutions, you attacked them not to be systemic. And that's a big problem for those who imagine that they're systemic, that they work systematically, comprehensively, and I don't know how. I don't agree to be charged here, but some things have to be said, so even those who don't represent themselves in these things, don't understand them, don't know them, know what these things are about. We know the opposition is not privileged. We know that the number of coalitions and its power in the National Assembly is such that it votes in full and cannot go through a legislative procedure any matter that is not decided by part or all coalition. It's impossible. And that is why those who point to what proposals we are proposing in the opposition — good suggestions — are also unworthy. If any proposal had been adopted earlier, if a lot of simplification had been accepted, a lot could have happened, a lot of Slovenia could have already been rehabilitated. This is how we regulate the situation in Greece, Peloponnese, Crete, the Marathon field, Epirus and so on, Dakia, Thrace and so on. There is 400 million euros for Slovenia, for the situation in Koroška, for the situation in White Krajina, in order to accelerate any investment project in Slovenia, there is no money. If I understand these discussions about the budget's rebalancing, there can also be major changes in those areas where some of you say things are being preserved. We'll see when we get the data, and we'll see what happens in the end. Given the way things are going, I'm afraid that these things are going to be very little and that, apart from these pear effects and distractions, there's not going to be much of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u198	It is not right to try to say on every occasion what anyone thinks about the government, about the opponents, about the unwanted political and other public, because when it comes to talking about specific things and they relate to solving specific problems in specific environments, it is demagogy, misleading a harmful matter, and today all of this has been said too much. Really too much. If anything, the difference between 2005 and today is that a system works, some measures implemented by the decree, and certain resources are provided, improvements, improvements every year for people, for the environment in these areas. I cannot go beyond what I have said before – that there have also been quite a few professional comments on individual articles of this law, and that when, from the research group on pedology and environmental protection of the Faculty of Biotech in Ljubljana, it is written that in Article 3 it is wrong and professionally wrong to fix things in such an environment, if, in Article 4, they also tell me what is wrong, if they then define in more detail what is wrong with this approach, then it is necessary to conclude that this has to be radically changed or that the law is rejected. Expressing your support for systemic regulation of things, as I see it, can rule out all these controversyes, what someone has done for someone, in what environment, and if they are good, they will do it if they are not good, if they do not mean well, but this law will refuse — no. I was not a bad fan of being separated locally from the state level and so on, because I thought that everyone could separate it from themselves when it comes to supporting things that need to be regulated at national level, in order to benefit the local environment, every citizen and citizen, the resident and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Yet: Is it possible to avoid these generalizations and these accusations? As I understand, and as I will listen to the final speech of the bill's proponents – I suppose they will come forward – it convinces me that they simply want to destroy those good purposes which, on the basis of the 2005 unadopted law, have then been regulated by decree since 2007 and are realized through the money in the state budget. So, not even those things that they introduced at the time, they no longer believe, but they would be willing to promise people something that is on the roof — not even a pigeon, is something else — to discuss hours and hours here and to create this false impression. That's why I'm not into that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I admit that my low pressure has grown excessively, but that I am trying to keep the culture of speech and not subject to some comments that have also been made. But apparently, when we talk through each other or through each other, the arguments apply absolutely nothing. At the outset, in my opening speech, I welcomed the respect I felt for the decision taken by the previous government to respect it, regardless of whether it was former, former, whatever. We have heard several times from the Minister, my colleagues and colleagues that 3 million euros have been earmarked in 3 years and so on. The balance of the budget increases funds, but the arguments simply don't depend on anything. I was alone in my understanding of the bill very, very much in the dispute not to support. And if you know, respected colleagues, this Slovenia, then you know where pollution and degraded areas came from — centuries before foreign capital invested in all these industrial areas, in all these local environments where our families and our people still live today. And that's why these degraded areas are pretty much something. And what I want is a respected minister, so that only at the Ministry of Environment and Space can we take a final look at and give ourselves priorities, because we have been talking about this for several months or even years, that there are degraded areas in the area of Slovenia where people are living who are burdened and have health consequences. And that is why this warning or a note about the law is a necessary thing, which is worthy of the government's judgment, whatever, and it would be wise for one to start it. If the decree is the start of fundraising to eliminate these degraded areas, it may be a law, but not only a unilateral one for the Mežiški valley, but probably for all the areas that are degraded. Our children in Celje were given the export of litter from the Mežica Valley, and at that time the situation of some children deteriorated very, very much. In Cel, there is a higher incidence of cancer, especially among women. We have an incredible increase in early births, and so on. Cadmium, which is invisible, unheard of and spreads if you shake into it, which we have in Celje 50 times the limit of value or a thousand milligrams per kilogram, also titanium. I could list all these things that are collected from the Conference Pollution of the Environment and Natural Resources as a limiting factor for development in Slovenia – a model approach for degraded areas in which the data collected by Dr. Lobnik, Grilca, Dr. Pluto and all masters or experts in the field of Slovenia are accurately collected, and unfortunately, the matter has been somewhat affected. I hope, I believe, and I am optimistic that we will know right, left, middle, whatever, to talk about the priority of the development of Slovenia for the environment, that it is, after all, necessary to protect this environment from further pollution and to prevent, after all, the new dangerous emissions that are emerging and are still polluting the environment. Therefore, it is also so important when we talk about the sale of state property that we have in mind, not least, what we sell in a particular local area, how and why, because it is also burdened by the ecological contents of the past. And as I say, I cannot support a unilateral law, especially with a view to raising funds, because we already have an existing decree, which is in force and is being implemented. Therefore, any hints, speculation about all other content are really a little funny, to all of us, if they listen to us, but the burden and degraded areas are our common problem in the Slovenian space. And the people we live here have health consequences, which I think is the biggest problem. In some area you can remove land, but we'll ask ourselves again where, how, how, how, and so on. So each case is a little bit different. But really, once again, I call the Ministry of Environment and Space, just like that, I'm a little bit, a little bit there, it won't work. And, Minister, I would very much like you to set this strategic goal of an end. And I am sure that the European Union will also bite at this, and with a pilot project for the resolution of such areas, which are quite something in Slovenian territory and are typical, we could finally get a package of European money. I think we'd be better off then, not only in the Mežíska Valley, where things are already being resolved from the past, where there are already financial resources, but also in other areas, such as the Celje Valley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Minister Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a problem we talk about a lot. We know where the problems are. I have also spoken at European level and have been informed that the problem of old burdens is endless in Europe. We know why. We're gonna try everything we can do. But today's debate on marriage, even the idea of marriage, has given me the idea that you have made out loud – that you probably need a general law, not just for one valley, but for Slovenia, which would address the problem of old burdens. And thank you so much for that idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Today's debate has shown that opinions on the proposed law are very different. Even those who supported a related marriage five years ago today say they will not support it. On the other hand, I am pleased that, in fact, there is uniform support for the fact that this and other Slovenian environments need to be remedied. These are old industrial environments, where there are many other problems, from living in complete traffic isolation. I'm not talking about laws that weren't passed here. I think we need to find a way. If it doesn't go with the decree, it's the law that can solve the matter. The law is hierarchical over the decree, and I don't know what's bad about it. In the following readings, this law can be improved accordingly. We have many good environmental experts in Slovenia, for example Dr. Franz Lobnik. Here we mentioned certain letters that all Members of Parliament had received to their addresses. Here, however, I would separate between those who are serious environmental experts and those who see some business in this, even if they have some academic title before their name. That's what you need to be careful about. But we don't need, at least not for the Valley of Meziska, new environmental research, which just requires money, but we need to start working. It's time for action. It's time for work. And in the future, allow people at this end to live in an environment that will be friendly to them. This is their constitutional right, this is a fundamental human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I didn't want to abuse the Rules of Procedure and apply for a procedural proposal or a replica because I didn't discuss it. However, I think it is necessary to respond to an unacceptable statement and to me as a citizen of Slovenia. It is the words of fellow Member Marjan Bezjak, who said in the introduction of his discussion – I will leave out that part that is not essential: "As also Koroška, Upper Mežiška valley is part of Slovenia. Unfortunately, you failed to join Austria at that time, as you gave one part of Koroška to Austria at that time." Why am I saying this statement is offensive to me? I think that if it comes from the mouth of a party member who thus stresses patriotism, such a statement as a citizen offends me because I recognize the country as a legal creation whose scope is set by borders. Now let's leave this division aside to ours and yours. It's about knowing history and taking history into account. The border between Austria and Slovenia was established by Koroski plebiscite on 10 October 1920. Before that a lot happened, there was a peace treaty too, but plebiscite was the one that set Zone A because of the plebiscite outcome, and this is the personal decision of the people that belongs to Austria. At that time, 22,000 people decided to live in Austria, and 15 thousand 278 decided to live in the then Kingdom of Serbohrvats and Slovenes. I think it's a good lesson in civic education, because leaving a decision to make a personal statement on important issues can sometimes also have such consequences that we are not willing to do. It is now unacceptable to report a political option that does not have a historical connection with 1920, and even less biological, because even my mother was not born at the time. It seems to me that we are not a good example for citizens and citizens of Slovenia if, as elected representatives of the people, we are so poorly aware of history. So much for that. Now, I would like to express my view that I will not speak in explanation of vote. I will not support this bill, let anything be said already, because I would really be fooled that I do not know and that I have not heard a few times today that there is a document by which the measures for the rehabilitation of the Mishik Valley are being implemented. It would be good to remember that everyone has to do their part if some measures are to be taken. I support Minister Žarnic's appeal that everything needs to be done to speed up local communities' efforts to do what needs to be done so that the state can order money. The nicest, easiest thing in this country is to point your finger at the government and give her some responsibility. But I would have made it up to all those who are thinking about contaminated land and more. In my previous mandate, I have also asked questions from Members about the content of lead and other heavy metals in the sand on playgrounds of kindergartens and sports playgrounds. I would like to point out that there is also a very serious problem where the contaminated soil is then dumped. The fact that we have some stories in Maribor that have also experienced epilogues in court is probably not something to be warned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. You're all interfering with this history, and I'd like to take a historical tour of my own. The Mežíska Valley and the Jezersko Valley in 1920 were not connected to the plebiscite zone and were not part of the vote on plebiscite, because in this Mežíska Valley and on the other hand in Jezerska, where they still hold Korošce, there were so conscious Slovenians that they knew that they could easily have fallen if the Mežíska Valley and Jezersko were joined in a plebiscite zone and plebiscite decision. If you're going to read Voranco, Voranc writes something small about it. Otherwise, it is true that this is essentially a pilot project, the first project of this type of rehabilitation in Slovenia. As was the closing of the merciless mine in some way the first case of closure in Slovenia and it had huge shortcomings. From this famous Slovenian profession I can mention that it was then said that the mezig mine would be submerged within two years. What happened? Within three months, the water flowed through the edge. That was the grade. That's what they were wrong about. So let's be careful about the profession. And, of course, the pilot project in Slovenia is also this rehabilitation in the Mežiška Valley. At least in Arnoldstein, recovery turned out to be a success, the same as in Bunker Hill in the United States. And these Koreans who have been working on this project have looked at this good practice, and I think the programme is set up very successfully, and of course it is difficult to implement it if the money is missing. I gave myself a year ago, to two of our research groups in the National Assembly, to work on the issue of compensation, about the rent, to see if these farmers living in this environment around the crane smelter were entitled to any rent, any compensation. The answer was quite, quite ambiguous. Foreign practices generally do not know this, except Sweden in some way. Therefore, the law proposes that these farmers have the advantage of concessions in state forests. I think that's very correct. These are solid Korean farmers who are hard to live on those slopes, and if they were to get another 200 hectares of forest to manage there, they would be much easier to cope with. Otherwise, one farmer said it wasn't the right thing to do. This was said even by the farmer, whose great-grandfather was the first to point out the decline of forests in Slovenia. But he doesn't have to take it, that's an offer for those 10 farmers who once sued the Mezica mine and got the lawsuit. This action means that it has been proven that this area is degraded to such an extent that it is difficult to manage in these areas. And second, what is in this law is that it is intended to limit further pollution in order to limit the export of pollution to other parts of Slovenia. I think that this is very good and that it is easy for this law to support that we make an appropriate improvement in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We used to have a little bit of an explanation about history, about a plebiscite year 90 years ago. I don't know if it would be good to say anything about General Maister for the balance, but I'm going to hold on to that. I'd say I support this law. I am also pleased that there is somehow a difference between content and the content approach between the debaters. Nor was it such a big difference; we all somehow indicated the need to address these problems of environmental degradation, but of course, the problem will arise after things have to be realized in accession. It is, of course, necessary to point out once again that the law is certainly over every decree, and we also find that out — I say in general, I am not talking about this, but in general — that the government can take a decision and then respect it or not. The next government to come may or may not respect the decision of the former government. But if it goes wrong with the law that someone doesn't respect the law, it's a little worse. Even so, in a country that is not a legal state, this can happen, but it is a little more difficult. So the law certainly doesn't hurt. I would say, however, that I do not agree with those who have claimed that many have destabilized the environment because of the foreign capital invested in the construction of certain investments and that foreigners have exploited it. Of course, it was mainly in the mines that mining started in coal mines, in the Žirovsko vrh and in the Mežiški valley of course the previous centuries, and that foreign investment was also made, but you know, the difference in environmental degradation between foreigners and after 1945 was not at all. The degradation continued. By saying that foreigners are the ugly ones — let us put this aside. In addition, in a very large area of degradation of the Celje Valley, foreigners had nothing. Zinc, titanium dioxide and before that part we built in the previous country after 1945. The huge amounts of heavy metals, the extremely heavy ones, have nothing here but the ore came from abroad, which is true. So it doesn't make sense to talk about it. But the degradation of the environment is also strong elsewhere. I'll point out the Žirovsky Summit. But we also have a separate marriage for the Zirovsky Summit. We have a law. We also have degradation in coal mines, but we don't have laws, except for the regulation, for the operation. Except when we're closing up, and there we are. Then environmental degradation occurs also in hydropower plants, and even more so in thermal power plants. This is said to be a solution to cement plants too. Of course, this Gudron cave, which is the only collection site or landfill of waste oils, is particularly characteristic, but there is nothing foreigner has to do with it. This was built in the country after 1945, and it was demolished. I'm sure this is where we should be saved. Rumor has it there's a need for a comprehensive solution. I agree with that, but somehow we're not doing it. We have a separate law for Prekmurje, which was adopted in this mandate, we have a separate law on the rescue of the capital, including in this mandate. I have already mentioned that we have a law on the Žirov Summit, which is already a little older, but also separate, but we do not have other degraded areas. But we are talking a little less about degradation now, now we are talking about development problems, because at the moment the development problem is the biggest problem in Slovenia. And you know that the environment is the tenth concern of those who are hard to survive, who have no jobs. And that's the problem. If we want to be able to rebuild, fix the environment, then we must also have jobs, we must have economic power. And we're just talking about how all of this has to be arranged. The Cross Valley has paid this tax for centuries, and if we have so many separate laws, including the capital, then the Mezi Valley also deserves some law to approach the law to solve this problem. I will, of course, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u213	Mr. Tanko, I'll take your word!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u214	It bothers me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u215	However, I am disturbed by your way of dealing with fellow Members and other people in general. I ask you to frame yourselves for this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u216	Look, he insulted me. Then I'm coming back. Look, we're dealing with environmental burdens in different ways, somewhere with some sub-legislative rules, somewhere with laws, somewhere we don't have anything, it looks like there's only enough in some kind of budget act, the NRP, and it's happening. If I'm not mistaken, we've passed some laws that have solved special problems. Colleague Petan mentioned the law on the closure of the Žirovski vrh mine. We also have a law on the closure of mines, such as the Canjiarica in the White landscape, Senovo. We also have a law on the closure of RTH, Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. We also have a law on the NEK Fund that solves some new or other environmental problem. We have these things arranged at systemic or at value different levels. We only propose that the regulation of the serious environmental burden in the Mežíska Valley be brought to the level of law, that the government is not the one to decide whether or not to comply with the decision of the previous government, or whether this decision has even been repealed. We want this matter to be set up at a higher level, to also better regulate the enforcement of the law, to regulate insight and so on. And I am pleased that some parliamentary groups have given support to the further procedure in this law, and I have understood that they are also willing to participate in the development of further improved solutions, as this law does. I think that's in everyone's interest. If an idea is born and it is not diametrically opposed to any concept of the development of Slovenian society, then it is probably normal to include mechanisms and find the best solutions that we can get from a proposal. I'm not in favour of a priori rejecting things just because, I don't know, a solution has been proposed by someone who isn't the mainstream of the current policy. I am in favour of finding a solution to find a better proposal. If we can't do it now, then let's do what we can and just take a further step towards the next improvement of the law, just as we do in many areas. But I think we need to sort these key things out. One more thing is a problem, and that's why I think marriage makes sense. You know, the healing of the Meži valley is not just a matter of one, two or three municipalities in the Mežiška Valley. If we want to systematically deposit these environmental burdens from the Mežiska Valley somewhere - it is not necessary to find this suitable location in the Mežiški valley, it can be elsewhere. This is not a municipal problem, but it is a national problem because we have a major problem with the preparation of these deposits. And to say that the local congregations did not make use of all the resources available is very easy to get rid of. However, the problem may be that there is no place where certain things can be taken, as is the case with the handling of asbestos or other things. Therefore, I think that this is the only appropriate way for this matter to be regulated by the law, even if it is not sufficiently accurate and precisely processed, to also process amendments to this law, because this is possible, and to do this at this national level. In this way, there will be real improvement, even in a much faster time than ever before, and in a different way. I am not in favour of transporting these environmental burdens across different playgrounds across Slovenia. Let's not do anything about it. Let's just move the problem all the way. That is why I find this step and approach meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, today we can see that the debate was quite broad and thorough. It is true that Mizica is the first mine to plow the ice with closure and that experts, and finally the inhabitants, have learned how and how. The present law and the bill showed that we can actually expect and that we really need to think thoroughly about how and how to deal with such and similar problems in the future or how to act in reducing environmental pollution, because environmental pollution will also be present in the future. We're going to have and we're going to discover new degraded areas, we're going to find things that we don't yet know how to actually systematically do this, and how can we not finally leave an opportunity for experts to make some fundamental cuts and even agree on each other? Not only was this seminar quoted by my colleague, Andrea Richter, but there were quite a few and many. Many lectures on how and in what way, yet very few concrete and important steps for systemic solutions, how to prevent further pollution and the further creation of degraded areas. That is why I appeal to you, Mr Minister, to actually go to some systemic solutions, because, finally, we have heard a great deal about CO2, the whole world is talking. Now they're in some way, I'd say, slag season dust particles, there will be something else, pesticides are, not to mention cadmium, anthracite and so on. That's a lot. Of course, all of us, once and for all, are at risk, and we will be threatened. We are not yet aware of how this really thorough beginning of our health, of course in one environment more, in one less. Therefore, a thorough consideration of how and how to deal with such and similar pollutions and how to deal with the rehabilitation of degraded areas, so that we do not decontaminate the slightly preserved areas in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 30th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, this is to the defence of the mid-term report of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political liability of the sum of involvement in the financing of the disputed managers' acquisitions and the lack of overriding legislation. The report was submitted by the Commission of Inquiry for consideration. I give the text to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Aloise Posedel, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will present the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, which has a very long title and was decided at the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 25 May 2009. As a result of this long title, the National Assembly at its 25th regular meeting on 7 March this year changed the title of the Commission of Inquiry, which according to the new Commission of Inquiry for the determination of political responsibility due to suspicion of involvement in the financing of disputed management acquisitions and lack of takeover legislation. In the decision-making act itself, the National Assembly set out the main purpose of the investigation, which is also detailed and fully recorded in the interim report. It is mainly about clarifying and clarifying all the facts and circumstances and assessing the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, the holding company, d.d., and Pivovarna Laško, d.d., by banks or credit institutions in the main state ownership, and determining also why crediting and financing such controversial management acquisitions are permitted and determining what is extremely important to emphasise – the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in these cases. At its 7th meeting, on 16 June 2009, the National Assembly adopted a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry, and they were appointed to the Commission of Inquiry: Breda Pečan, Rudolf Petan, Lojze Posedel, Joško Godec, Happy Friend, Guido Kres and Milan Gumzar. Among the members, the National Assembly decided to appoint the President of the Commission, who is currently presenting the interim report, and to appoint Mr Guid Kres as Vice-President. Day 23. 3. In 2011, the National Assembly at its 26th meeting found that Mr Srečko Friend’s term of office had ceased. Therefore, at its meeting on 4 May 2011, the National Assembly appointed him as a member of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Silvan Majhenič. The Commission of Inquiry conducted a parliamentary inquiry in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. The Commission of Inquiry has already agreed at its 1st meeting to conduct the investigation in two sets. First, in the first set, we decided to check all the legislation in force in the area of acquisitions or in other areas which indirectly or directly affect the managers themselves, such as this legislation, whether it was requested in due time and also any amendment adopted, supplementation. This part has also been processed in this interim report. In the second part, which is already under way, a concrete analysis will be carried out of both management acquisitions, both in Pivovarna Laško, d. d., and Istrabenzu, holding company, d. d. A short chronological review of the action itself is as follows. The constitutional session was 15. Seven. In 2009, and at that time, the Commission had to date 17 regular and 2 urgent sessions, i.e. a total of 19 meetings. Following the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Commission, a decision on the implementation of preparatory actions was also adopted at the 1st meeting. The preparatory actions are all those related to the collection of materials, the review of all laws, the chronology of the adoption of the takeover legislation, in a way that examines all legislation and all materials, both the National Assembly, the Government, other institutions, professional articles and also articles in the media. The material collected was processed by the professional services, the expert members of the investigative commission and external cooperation until 30 October 2009. It also respected the Commission's decision to respect the principle of a good master for all costs associated with the work of the Commission. We have been working towards the most rational use of budgetary resources. I would also like to thank all the Witnesses who have been questioned that almost everyone has given up all the costs incurred by coming to the hearing. At the 3rd meeting of the Commission of Inquiry on 28 October 2009, the Commission adopted an investigative decision setting out the precise purpose of the Commission, which, in addition to reviewing all the documentation collected, also contained a decision on the hearing of witnesses. As witnesses, Magi was invited to the hearing. Mr Andrej Vizjak, former Minister of Economy; Mag. Andrijana Starina Kosem, former secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy; Mag. Tomaž Jeršič, former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy; Dr. Andrej Bajuk, former Minister of Finance; Mag. Bozo Zadalič, former Secretary General of the Government; Mag. Mitja Gaspari, former Minister of Finance and Governor of Banka Slovenije; Jani Sorsak, Director of the Office for Competition Protection; Dr. Max Tynikar of Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana; Dr. Marko Brus of the European Faculty of Law in Nova Gorica; Prof. Marijan Kocbek of the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor; Prof. Dr. Rado Bohinc, University of Primorske; Mag. Dušan Pšeničnik, Advisor for Company Law and Intellectual Property; Dr. Damjan Žugelj, Director of the Securities Market Agency; Dr. Marko Kranjec, Governor of Banka Slovenije; Dr. Neven Borak, former Director of the Securities Market Agency; Andrej Plahutnik, former Director of the Competition Protection Office; mag. Božo Jašovic, former member of the Council of Banka Slovenije responsible for the supervision of banking; mag. Katja Bozič, former member of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank; and Dr. Ivan Ribnikar, retired university professor at the Faculty of Economics and longtime member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The list or list of witnesses has been well established and has included some public function holders, law-enforcement experts, legal, economic and banking experts and representatives of various regulators on the market. In the course of the parliamentary investigation, the list of initial witnesses set out by the Commission of Inquiry was subsequently supplemented by a proposal from one of the members of the Commission of Inquiry, who also gave a separate opinion when considering the draft interim report and proposed additional witnesses. In addition to the above-mentioned witnesses, Mr Bine Kordez, former director of Merkur, d.d., was also heard as a witness, but his testimony and statements will be processed in the second report of the Commission of Inquiry. All witnesses were warned in the hearing procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and, on the basis of the questions raised by the President and the members and their alternates, their replies are summarised in the interim report you received. It should be noted, however, that after the hearing, all Witnesses received a magnetogram of the hearing and a draft minutes of the hearing, so that all witnesses could complete or amend the minutes. In its work, the Commission of Inquiry, at the stage of the implementation of the evidence and during the hearing, came to the conclusion that it would require an extension of the scope of the investigation to its effective and successful completion of the parliamentary investigation, so that a decision was proposed to the National Assembly to determine whether the public function holders were actively involved in individual management acquisitions, so that they obtained loans for themselves or for the companies in which the owners or co-owners were, and this was also confirmed by the National Assembly on 1 February 2011. As we say, all activities under the programme from the second part of our work are already under way. On 19 June this year, the Commission of Inquiry unanimously adopted an interim report, which is currently under consideration in the National Assembly, from the reviewed documentation and statements of the witnesses interviewed. At this point, I would also like to thank all the members and members of the Commission of Inquiry for their proper and very good work on the Commission itself. It also shows that this report has been adopted, that it has been voted on by all and that there is no separate opinion, that we have done this work as professionally and correctly as possible and that we have come to the five essential conclusions that are recorded at the end of this report. This report was also sent to an external expert in this field, the economic field, for evaluation, and its assessment is also accompanied by an interim report; you may have read it. These five main and essential findings are the following: that cases of disputed management acquisitions were created under specific conditions, at a time when, due to the acquisition of the euro and the conjuncture on the global financial market, there was a lot of relatively low cost of funding available. During the period of this large liquidity, the banks did not act prudently and approved loans for managers' acquisitions on the basis of insufficient quality insurance. Secondly, for the whole period, even for the period defined by the parliamentary inquiry, the legislation in the area of acquisitions was inadequate or lacking. This does not, however, come directly from the review of the legislation, but it is possible to conclude from the analysis of the events that certain provisions were not recorded in the takeover legislation but in some other laws and were therefore not respected and complied with. Similarly, certain provisions in the legislation were not adopted in a timely manner or contained a time-limit for the entry into force which allowed certain acquisition activities to be carried out. We have also found that there is a need for additions or amendments to the current legislation, and these changes are taking a long time to make sense, so it is also the willingness of the Commission of Inquiry to submit certain needs on its own if the Ministry of Economy or Government does not. Thirdly, all regulators, both in companies, banks and state institutions, have great responsibility for contested management acquisitions. Inaction or absence of work was conditional on inadequate legislation or also for formal or subjective reasons. Fourthly, the cause of disputed management takeovers is also greed or lack of ethical standards among individual managers, and the reason for taking action in some managers was also their desire or necessity to reduce any exposure to political influence. And fifthly, throughout the period of takeover, various political friendships are also observed that allowed individual actions and activities that would otherwise not be feasible. As it is said, these are the main findings that have been narrowed down. For each of these findings either there are statements of witnesses or acts or cases that have been described in the articles or are known in reality. From the above on behalf of all members and members of the Commission of Inquiry, I also propose that the National Assembly approve the proposed findings, the second part, which is a concrete analysis of the identification of political responsibility for both cases of management acquisitions, and the Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz, in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Alojz Posedel. Please come back for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much. All members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will support these findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you very much. It would probably be best if I said so, as my colleague Posede said on behalf of unrelated Members, but I think it would be good to say what our impressions about the work of this Commission of Inquiry are. We note that these findings, which have been made by the Commission of Inquiry, are quite credible in covering what we have already done on the Commission over all these months and years. Therefore, I would just like to substantiate some of the claims, perhaps the opinion of a colleague who has a separate opinion. It could be partly agreed with because, however, the takeover legislation at a time when the intensity of the takeover of the target companies was the highest was corrected, but unfortunately corrected so that it was partly enforced by delay, at the end of a year. For example, amendments to the Banks Act prescribed a higher amount of flags for credits, so that, for example, the level of the flag for loans reached by 100 % was raised to 150 %, but the banks were not more cautious when lending loans. The reason is, as the Magus said. Mitja Gaspari, in that the banks, as well as the Government as a proposal for a bill on banking, have found that it is appropriate to implement this regulation with a one-year delay. Although the Banking Act entered into force 1. 1. However, the part relating to the credit guarantees in the case of the equity flag only entered into force in January 2008. The key articles governing bank approaches in calculating the capital requirement are risk management in the decision-making process and in the granting of credits. The question is why a one-year delay has taken place, and I think that this will also be a question that the Commission will have to answer in further work. For the scope of management acquisitions during this period, two are crucial, namely non-compliance with the takeover legislation, as well as the fact that the takeover legislation did not, in fact, give the regulator the opportunity to go into content not only in form. Therefore, Mr Žugelj, when he became Director of the Securities Markets Agency, almost immediately addressed the Government's request to deepen the legislation in such a way that the ATVP, when approving the takeover, also checked whether the acquirer was even able to pay the leased credits for taking over the target. So, that's one thing. The second thing is the very easy-to-receiving of loans for managers' acquisitions by banks, which was also enabled by the fact that banking regulation in that key part was not in place in time or only with a one-year delay. The state that the takeover legislation was not respected is well known, and many so-called parking spaces — companies in a number of takeovers — have also been created. Manager’s or stock parking spaces existed before, but no one identified them. The changes in the supervision, prosecution and sanctioning of illegal practices in the takeover area occurred only with the replacement of both regulators, towards the end of the former government's mandate, so that, for example, Mr Žugelj confessed that the first serious case had been initiated and ended only in 2008. Something similar or even worse happened when the ATVP began to detect infringements in the area of overcoming the threshold for state-owned enterprises, with the owner of the country, only more than two years after the amendment of the takeover legislation. The fact is that Mr Žugelj and the Bank of Slovenia have also pointed out shortcomings in the Takeover Act, and neither the former nor the current government, nor the former Minister of Economy nor the former Minister of Economy and Minister of Economy have yet to bring the Law on Takeovers to the National Assembly. I and we are seriously awaiting, and we have also asked the Ministry of the Economy in the investigative commission to send, as soon as possible, a change of the takeover law to the National Assembly to address all these identified shortcomings. The fact is that there is a great deal of responsibility for these controversial management actions, and here we need to know something, and this is what the Commission itself has found – that we cannot only talk about two, three, four very large takeover activities, but that it is a multitude of acquisitions involving smaller companies, and they have also been taken over, we can now identify, transported. Shares of target companies, targets, so-called undertakings were used for the guarantee and the result that their shares were used as a guarantee for leased acquisition loans was that they were then exhausted. This has also been true for Mercury and for a whole range of construction companies, so that we now attribute a series or dominoes of bankruptcy in the construction of the construction crisis, and in the background there are the acquisitions that were built on the exhaustion of the undertakings taken over. And the consequences of such acquisitions are felt most by workers in these companies, and as a result also by the country, which has to pay compensation for unemployment to people who have been driven into unemployment by unconscious and greedy management acquisitions. Our Group of Members will support the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, and at the same time we propose that the Commission also adopt concrete conclusions and conclusions on the personal responsibility of individual holders of political and other functions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to say that the Commission was working very correctly, that there were virtually no votes. My separate opinion is that there can also be different views on a particular situation. My separate opinion is based mainly on the state of law that was in Slovenia at this time, which is the area of investigation of this investigative commission. I would like to say that my separate opinion is based on the testimony of the witnesses, and I have also stated this in this opinion. Before moving to specific matters and justifying, I would like to inform you of a few days old news from all Slovenian media reporting that the Senate of Ljubljana District Judges Bavčar, Šrota, Pogačnik, Toplak, Pivovarno Laško and Istrabenz have thus now cleared the suspicion of abuse of position or rights in the sale of a 30% stake in Mercator. And when in August 2005, this is the continuation of this, its 16.33% stake in Mercator sold to Istrabenz and the Court sold its 13.74% stake in Pivovarni Laško. In doing so, it should be noted that former director Mercator Jankovic requested that Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz sell him shares in Mercator, purchased from Kad and Sod, so that he would not continue to read the news. Now we're going to justify my separate opinion. It is not possible to conclude from the evidence, i.e. the evidentiary decisions in which 9 witnesses were heard, that the takeover legislation during the whole period defined by the parliamentary investigation was 30. 5. 2005 until the date of submission of the request for parliamentary inquiry, that is, in May 2009, inadequate or insufficient. Finally, some of this is also mentioned in the second decision of the five conclusions adopted by this Commission of Inquiry. The fact is that the Takeover Act No. 1 of July 2006 — none of the evidence or statements made by 9 witnesses heard — cannot be argued that this Act, which I have mentioned, was inadequate or lacking, as indicated in the first indent of the conclusions of the interim report. You could have said the opposite before. Practically all witnesses who made a concrete statement on the appropriateness of the takeover Act 1 claimed that the current takeover legislation had significantly improved the previous regime and that they did not have a professional assessment that the takeover Act 1 of 2006 would be inadequate or inadequate. Nor did any witness draw attention to the specific provision of this law, which would be inadequate and inadequacy. This is also confirmed by the conduct of the current government, which, in the event of an inadequate or inadequate 2006 law, would have already proposed amendments or additions, if necessary. I should now be allowed, given that the hearings were public, to tell and justify the testimony of the Witnesses. Witness Dr. Max Tynikar, in his opinion, is not a controversial legislation, as lawyers felt in discussions with the witness. The second question is to what extent legislation was implemented and what were the decisions of the entities involved in the implementation of the legislation. He goes on to say: "The problem of the emergence of management acquisitions lies in the transformation of former PIDs into holding forms, as well as, this was in the second half of the 1990s, in the ignorance of the consequences of privatisation. If Slovenian takeover legislation were to be implemented in a normal economy, but not in the privatisation process and at the same time in the conjuncture created in 2003, it could be successful." And he goes on to say in the hearing: "The Slovenian stock market is extremely unpredictable, because it shows the real value of businesses, and it is not. This has also led to a number of miscalculations of the value of companies, and the acquisitions have also been easier to carry out." Next: "The late 1990s raised an important question as to who should be the owner of the company in relation to the national interest, either a foreigner, a domestic owner or a country. The domestic owner further raised the question of who to be. In politics, there is a view that it is necessary to support, in terms of national interest, the domestic manager's takeover." The next witness, Dr. Marko Bruce, said that the correctness of operation, application of the takeover law is controlled mainly by the Securities Market Agency, which also cares about the legality of the acquisitions carried out. "Previous legislation..." – before 2006 it was meant to – "... in the area of acquisitions was probably worse, but we lived in a time of transition, and it was also questionable how to implement legislation; for example, with the new Director of the Competition Protection Office, the activity of the Office was greatly strengthened. Taking over the company is not in itself bad; it can even eliminate the dispersed ownership of many shareholders. Dispersion makes it possible for the management of society not to do well, and it does not have to be tried, even though this weakness is not a rule." He mentioned Krko. "The problem with the takeover arises if the takeover does not have its own resources, but takes over with the bank's credit. This burdens the asset that will be acquired by the acquisition only after the shareholding company has taken over. This, however, can lead to the financial exhaustion of society." Next witness, Jani Soršak, who led the Competition Protection Office from 3 December 2007. Upon taking office, he reviewed the situation and soon found that there were several cases of so-called company concentration between the cases. The Office is, in fact, working on the basis of the takeover legislation with the concentration of the companies involved, if they exceed the threshold of 35 million annual traffic. It is because of this border that has been set, however, that many smaller acquisitions have, unfortunately, passed the review of the office. Managers' acquisitions from the national economy's point of view become controversial when they are executed by means of a financial lever, that is to say the flag of the property you are buying. So that's the other one who said the same thing. Then he also mentions that the office was successful before the courts, regretting that a number of cases were unfortunately obsolete before the courts. The previous legislation did not know before 2006 the so-called retention of concentration, as most European countries knew before 2003. The courts were also supposed to take this into account later. Next, the witness stated that the weaknesses of legislation, the absence or lack of judicial practice and inactiveness, the restraint of regulators were the cause of irregularities in acquisitions. As early as 1999, when the Prevention of Competition Act was adopted, many pointed out the weaknesses of the 1999 Act. Weakness was the introduction of the criminal system instead of pre-imposed punishment within the economic procedure, which also allowed higher penalties. The lower fines after the new penalties which could have been imposed in the course of the offence no longer deterred offenders from violating the law. The Law on takeovers also had weaknesses, and judicial practice followed with great delay. The tightening of the system or regime was established in 2007 by the Takeover Act – which was adopted in 2006 but was still in force before it entered into operation – which gave rise to certain assumptions that should have been in force much earlier. In Austria and Germany, experts were surprised that in Slovenia, which took over their arrangement, ransoms were expanded with leverage, which is the famous one when you establish what you buy. And then there's the mags. Mitja Gaspari, who has served as Governor of Banka Slovenije since 2001 and performed it, including until 2007. He stated: "In 2006, the Bank of Slovenia demanded a so-called dynamic reservation system, which was rejected by international audit houses in Slovenia, on the grounds that this is contrary to international accounting standards." He also said that he didn't agree to the manager's buyouts, he said he did the public sale. That was the end of the statement made by the former Governor of the Bank. This means that some conduct in the past was completely contrary to this view. I refer to the case of the Court of Justice at the time when the Chairman of its Management Board was mag. Milan M. Squeakle. At that time, the Governing Board of the Court decided on individual sales only without price fixing, e.g. Novi mesto Road Company. At that time, the Court sold shares in 91 companies. Of these, only two sales were made through the public collection of tenders made by the Court and one by public acquisition. The other 88 sales were made in an undisclosed manner. During this time construction companies Gradis Celje, Gradis SPO, Ingra Celje, SGP Tržič, VGP Novo mesto, Kras Sežana were also sold in an undisclosed way. The Management Board held a correspondence meeting without a price fixing. IU Vrhnika, Hotel Palace, d. d., Portorož, and there was also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Hotel Palace during this time. And one more thing. It is clear from the commission of inquiry that the parliamentary investigation focuses only on two acquisitions, namely Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško. Both takeovers are in close connection with Mercator and I fail to take over this company by the then President of the administration, Zoran Jankovic. In the period 2001-2004, the Court and Kad repeatedly expressed interest in the purchase of shares totalling 29,09 %. This was discussed with the leadership of Kad and Sod and discussed in the Kad supervisory board and the administrative committee of the Sod. To this end, the Court ordered Mercator’s valuation at the beginning of October 2004 at 31 December 2004 12. 2003. The valuation was made 25. Ten. In 2004, it was carried out by Tesseus. It has probably estimated Mercator's average share value to 35 000 200 SIT. At that time, a draft contract for the sale of Mercator’s share of the Court’s management had already been prepared at the Court. The draft contract was also received by Zoran Jankovic and was not concluded because the interested buyer Zoran Jankovic offered a low price, between 18 and 22 000 per share, at the time when the exchange price was 36 000 SIT. The source of this information is the report of the Commission of Inquiry of one of the previous Commissions in the National Assembly. In doing so, it should be noted that, through the Directorate-General for Competition, the European Commission, after a careful assessment of all available evidence and the relevant European and national legislation, concluded that the shares, more specifically the sale of Mercator's shares, did not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 87 of the Treaty of the European Community. The transaction was concluded in accordance with market practice in Slovenia, it was recorded that the price of SIT 38 000 per share was reflected in the market price on day 30. 8. 2005. I would also point out that one of the witnesses said that there were virtually no manager buyouts by 2007. Allow short statistical data. Sale of equity shares of the Court in Slovenian companies if there was no until 2007. In 1995, there were 21st, 1996 64th, 1997 115th, 1998 97th, 1999 165th, 2000 361, 2001 96th, 2002 84th, 2003 47th, 2004 43rd, 2005 37th. So that's not what they're saying. The largest purchases were by 2001, 2002, and then they fell dramatically. The same was true of Kad's equity shares. It follows from the above that the first finding does not reflect the actual situation of the contents of this witness's statements, since 30. 8. 2005 entered into force the Takeover Act, which corrected the 1997 takeover. And as some Witnesses have said, this is significantly better and has been significantly better defined. Of course, nothing is so good that it cannot be improved yet. It should also be noted that in addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy as a systemic competent ministry, a wide range of relevant State bodies, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Agency for the Market in Securities, the ATVP, and other institutions, the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, the Clearing-Deputy Company, the Bank of Slovenia, experts whose work is necessarily related to the acquisition of material, and interest associations, the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and experts of the Institute of Economic Practice of the Faculty of Law in Maribor, were involved in the preparation of the takeover Act which entered into force in 2006. It also follows from the Rapporteur of the National Assembly. Let me finish. I then proposed that, as witnesses, representatives of all those institutions should be invited to say whether they were preparing this legislation under pressure or were free to decide on the content of this legislation. Of course, it was clear that no one was under pressure, but they took into account that this was an extremely difficult material, the most advanced knowledge and experience that occurred at this time of acquisition. Indeed, it is a fact that it is also necessary to say that our case law was not as it should have been, and that the case law did not catch up either with the law or with the situation in which it all happened. Therefore, on this basis, we can argue that the 2006 takeover Act, prepared by the previous Government, was prepared on a very broad basis, that virtually everyone who has something to say about this issue was not under any pressure, and this legislation has been significantly improved. Here, too, the Act on Economic Companies, which was also amended a little later, must be taken into account. And the claim, which initially appeared to be possible that the legislation was guilty – you could say that, by 2006 and 2007, it could have been by means of the judicial practice that it was. After that time, however, perhaps something could be improved, but the Witnesses did not indicate that any part of the marriage was bad and that it should be changed. Moreover, with all certainty and credibility, I can say that if these two laws were to make a difference — since the previous government changed this law after a good half year and the takeover law after a bad year — that government should have changed this law after three years. True, one has been changed, but not in this part that speaks of takeovers. I have cited three conclusions that I would like to make this report known to the Government as well, the relevant ministry, the Ministry of the Economy, is said to prepare the possible shortcomings of this legislation as soon as possible, since it has been for quite some time since it was produced and has not yet happened. If I have understood my predecessor correctly, she also appeals to the appropriate ministry to prepare herself, if anything does not hold up, if anything has turned out to be wrong, so that this legislation could be even better. In view of the above, I can say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we support this separate opinion and we will not support the interim report itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The group of about 40 members from almost all parliamentary parties, with the exception of the SDS, addressed to the President of the National Assembly a request for a parliamentary inquiry aimed at identifying all facts and circumstances and assessing the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško by banks owned by the State. The investigation sought to establish the possible involvement of individual public function holders and to assess their possible political impact on the granting of so-called tycoon loans; loans to members of the management bodies of those companies and associated legal and natural persons for the purchase or management of an economic company. In addition, we wanted to identify all the facts and circumstances and assess the actual state of law on acquisitions that allowed the above-mentioned contested management acquisitions, with the aim of determining which one of the individual holders of public functions was responsible for such a situation. The investigation is focused on the time period from 30 August 2005 onwards, or on the sale of capital shares of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company in Mercator, pending the submission of a request for parliamentary procedure. These equity shares of the loan were used for the management acquisitions of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško, while the imprudent and harmful way of withdrawing the State from Mercator's ownership was a green light for accelerated ownership consolidation with management acquisitions. Let me remind you that this request was made on the same day that the Government was also discussing lending managers' acquisitions by banks in the majority state ownership. We requested a debate on the latter at the government in Zares. The reason for this was the extension of the loan to Infond Holding, one of the owners of Pivovarna Laško, by the largest Slovenian bank owned by the state of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. This same week, the Council of Zareza adopted conclusions calling on the Government to take action to extend the loan to Infond Holding. These decisions were submitted to the President of the Government, and if the Government did not discuss them at the time, this would have been a very important message to the party at that time, really, whether it should consider further cooperation in the government coalition. As the Government assessed that, in the case of certain reprogrammes of loans related to management acquisitions and ownership consolidation, its expectations had not been met, that the NLB and NKBM Boards had not followed the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia and that, later in May, in the framework of the Guarantee Scheme Act, there had been a ban on the conclusion of bank transactions which were intended to buy out shares or shares of companies by members of boards and economic companies and related persons, the party did not really initiate the decision-making procedure for further cooperation in the coalition. The consequences of the collapse of the tycoons are devastating for both the economy and the rule of law. All the companies and banks in the investigation, which have been involved in the contested management acquisitions in any way, are now on sale or in great difficulty. Beer shop Laško and banks sell Mercator, Laško sells Work, Work sells Dinner or sells and takes over only Laško. Istrabenz has already sold Road Kolinsko, NLB is selling Banka Celje and has experienced 250 million recapitalisation and the next is already forecast. It was also recapitalised by NKBM, Mercury is in forcible settlement, and could also be listed. So, who's responsible for the typo and the disastrous consequences that they've caused? Were the biggest tycoons created in the mandate of Janez Janša? Was Janš's war against the tycoons merely an opera war because of his own involvement in tycoon stories, such as Mercator and Istrabenz, powerless to investigate these? In the Parliamentary Group, we really believe that we all became hostages of the meeting that took place on 12 August 2005, at which, in addition to the then Prime Minister Janez Janša, Boško Šrot and Igor Bavčar were present and agreed to distribute Mercator in exchange for influence on the media, which was later announced in a public letter by Andrijana Starina Kosem, former State Secretary of State, Andrijana Starina Kosem, and also acknowledged Boško Šrot, who later acknowledged Janša's attempt to take over Del through straw companies. We also note that, in addition to the already mentioned meeting in Janšev's office, it would not have been possible for the management of Laško, Istrabenz and Mercury, who are hiring the courts today, to have already been subject to the 2008 takeover law, which prohibits a company from taking over through their own cash flow, for example, by the company's manager taking over the company's assets without investing a single euro in the project. Since 2008, the Takingover Act states that the acquirer must demonstrate that the payment of the securities to which the takeover bid relates has not been made in any way, directly or indirectly, or has committed itself to the flag or security of securities or other forms of assets of the target company that are not owned by the acquirer. However, another harmful way of taking over management, which has proved to be in the case of Mercury, is to buy a company with a large debt. Someone has set up a company to take over another company, so he owes himself and secures a loan with the shares of the company he bought. The two companies are then merged into one company and therefore the debts of its purchase are transferred to the company that is being taken over, which is exhausting it. Since the owner has to service the repayment of the loan, the money does not invest in the development of the company. Since such acquisitions are not designed to preserve the business, but only to acquire the assets and to enrich it, the company is about to fail. At the time of the biggest wave of Taiwan's privatisation between 2005 and 2008, the main problem was that managers were ahead of the law, said Matjaž Gantar, President of the KD Group administration. Now, in 2011, the former Economy Minister Andrej Vizjak repeats this at a hearing before the Commission of Inquiry. The tycoons are supposed to be overstepping the law. Or, as noted by the reviewer of Jože P. Damian's investigation panel report, for the scale of management acquisitions during the period in question, two are crucial in particular. Firstly, non-compliance with the takeover legislation, and secondly, the easy-thinking approval of loans for managers' acquisitions by banks, which was also possible by the fact that the banking regulation in that key part was not implemented in a timely manner or only at a one-year delay. The state that the takeover legislation was not respected is well known, so many parking lots – companies in a number of takeovers. Manager’s or stock parking spaces existed before, but no one identified them. Amendments, monitoring, prosecution and sanctioning of illegal practices in the takeover area have only been made by replacing the two regulators. In 2007, the first and long-standing director of UVK finally approved the concentration of Lashko and Union breweries in May 2005. In 2008, the mandate was completed by the Director of the ATVP, who managed to obtain only a few licenses from stockbrokers in the presence of a crowd of parking lots, connected persons and takeovers. So the guilt is not solely in bad takeover legislation. Let's just remember what Bine Kordez said in one of the more open discussions on the background of the management takeover of Mercury from RTV Slovenia. He admitted that the managers wanted to take advantage of the opportunity, but at the same time he warned that they also had the blessing of policies that it encouraged. As Cordège says: "It was an incentive to do so, both from the state and from the banks. The state has given money to buy, by state banks, the state has sold shares, the state has given us all the blessings that we have done properly and properly. One year later, she demanded that money back, and that wasn't feasible. Unfortunately, then we resolved with the banks as we did, but the situation did not resolve itself." Let us also recall the statements made by Alexander Svetelsk, former President of the Association of Managers, that the tycoons have also created banks and that banks should be asked why they financed certain acquisitions. The Director of the Securities Markets Agency, Damjan Žugelj, considered that the original sin for contested management acquisitions was attributed to the Bank of Slovenia in addition to greed and over-appetite, as well as to the size and arrogance of bankers, or to the guilt for contested acquisitions, because it was not intended to perform a supervisory function. Part of the blame should also be borne by the ATVP itself, which is supposed to be too bold and should lead to a lack of procedures in the past. Finally, the Governor of Banka Slovenije Kranjec notes that the financing of managers' acquisitions was particularly aggressive, mainly by banks owned by the State, but that the reasons for such policies should be asked about the management and supervisors of banks. He recalled that, between 2006 and 2008, banks significantly increased their lending to the economy and, as elsewhere in the world, created a loan balloon. The Slovenian banking system is expected to jointly grant more than €5.6 billion in loans, guarantees, for about 200 managers' acquisitions of companies, mostly in the short term, over four years from 2006 to 2009, which later proved to be fatal for the Taiwanese takeover. These loans were secured mainly by securities and the value of the central index of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange decreased by 70 % between the end of 2007 and the end of 2010, resulting in serious consequences for the quality of these collaterals. Or loans were secured or unsecured only by what is called a good name. Let me remind you of Binet Kordez's public statement at the end of 2007 that he received loans for the management takeover of Mercury in his own good name. And Mr. Vizjak, then Minister of Economic Affairs, do you remember how you requested an extraordinary meeting due to the loans given to Ultra that the Slovenian financial system was more likely to be compromised? Ultra has received 5.6 million credits, and as has been shown below, contrary to your claims, they have been given in a normal way to all similar companies, with normal insurance and also normally returned, and you have requested an extraordinary meeting. What about the loans of Mercury and Istrabenz, which are several hundred million? Wasn't the country in danger here? It is therefore also necessary to establish the actual responsibility of supervisors and bank administrations. At least until the current NLB supervisory board, the supervisors at the largest Slovenian bank, according to Kranjč's words, were not competent, but they set up a policy, and they complied with it. This, however, did not want to act, although the Bank of Slovenia was to remind Janša's government on several occasions of the risky conduct of the two largest Slovenian banks in majority state ownership. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the Laško case was the original sin, which then, with the political support of the Janša government, actually impressed market regulators and the rule of law. The policy was that only a few months after the Office of Competition Protection finally approved the concentration of Lashko and Union breweries in May 2005, Mercator decided to sell to Lashke and Istrabenz. Officially, they sold their shares in the largest trader to the Kad and Sod state funds, the best bidders and with the help of a friendly KD Group that relied on the ownership of the work. And so we could look at the national interest, the reckless or friendly banks, the connected persons, the exceedance of the take-over threshold without a take-up offer, the stock parking and straw owners, the stock held, the inactive or ineffective market regulators, and the political and sublime interference of policy with business decisions. Therefore, it is crucial for the development of Slovenia in the future to answer the question of what we have learned from this story or whether we have learned enough to stop this from happening. The story of Peter Pan and the country is not about a place where there is no concern and rules for adults and where no one needs to grow up. When I read this report and the statements of key and key actors and takeover stories, I felt exactly like reading the story. But all children grow up once and realize that the land is not just a fairy tale. Almost everyone. The conclusions proposed in this report will indeed be supported by the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Managers take over companies – another story of our transition, imprecise privatisation and state money theft. Why do I put all this together, someone might ask. It was a purely legitimate attempt on the part of some individuals to obtain huge assets through loans. And now that they didn't make it, they did it anyway, and they're fine. Justice is enough, and everything is fine and fine, you might say. But it's not like that. First of all, in this way, if you had the right connections in the tops of Slovenian state banks and the administrations of these companies, you could get management acquisitions from anyone, every citizen, including Guido Kres, if you want. However, we all know that Guido Kres and the mortgage on the apartment can never be obtained if he offers only a mortgage on the apartment he buys, or a million credits for the purchase of the company that would have secured it with the shares. These transactions were thus accessible only to certain dedicated elites. Secondly, banks, Banka Slovenije, their responsibility and responsibility for the management of these banks. Interestingly, most of these management acquisitions involve the largest Slovenian bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the most modern bank, the best bank, under quotations. NLB is a state bank; it employs a policy in the state bank which has power at that time. The State Bank is supervised by people who were called politicians there. When the state bank gets in trouble because of bad decisions, read: borrowers cannot pay back money that is obviously too much to receive, the state, read it: politics, recapitalises, with money, and money from the budget, from a budget that is filled with taxes from citizens and citizens and successful companies. Who, then, is financing and ultimately paying for greedy attempts to grab property? Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all, completely all, including those unemployed. Everyone who listens to me now knows that you are already paying or paying back, and we will be paying off the loans that some managers are, and I will not list them by name, hire them to privatise businesses. Now what? Nothing, you could say. Dogs bark, caravan moves on. I'm sorry. But I'm wondering if any of the bank managers who shared these loans were at least criminally aware. We know he wasn't, and he'll never be. Have you done at least that much? I don't think so. We all remember the most sinister case, the so-called Kramer Prize. Does the Government's distinguished representatives keep in mind that Mr. Kramar won the first stage of justice and that all of this shows that the NLB will be able to retain the NLB million-euro prize for success? At the same time, every three months we recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank because of its capital inadequacy, which is the result of decisions just somewhere from that period. Here I have an article that says, "In general, it is true that they are at a better bank that has not been advanced..." – we are always talking about some advancedness, some high intelligence, but – “... and they did not issue complex financial instruments and they did not have enough in their portfolio.” As the Governor of the Spanish Central Bank said, they are at a better bank, which until recently they thought to be stupid because they had a conservative lending policy. We in Slovenia should have such banks. I think it's all the bad banks, despite the fact that the legislation was bad because it wasn't the same for everyone. For everyone, she received the same guarantees, good guarantees, three-time guarantees, like you have to get, if you go to the bank or whatever, and then we get credit, and they ask you what you have for your salary, and what income you have, and what you're going to give, almost not even your old moms get back to you, and then you can only get credit. That's how we meet for credit today, and that's how everything I remember comes together. But because things have been going on like this, and we're here today as we are, and you know, it can be broken, but if the bank were to do what it needs to do, it wouldn't be. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we thus support the essential findings of the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. We agree that cases of disputed management acquisitions have arisen under specific conditions when, due to the takeover of the euro and the global financial market, there was a lot of relatively cheap funding available. Why didn't these managers go for these funds abroad? Why didn't they get credit there? Because we have to protect them differently than they did at home, and our banks have been getting these loans, transferring them forward, insure them badly, and today we are here where we are. During the period of this large liquidity, the banks did not act prudently and approved loans for managers' acquisitions on the basis of insufficient quality insurance. We also agree with the finding that the legislation in the area of takeover was inadequate or inadequate. I'd still find an apology here, because we're in transition, and we still are. But I'm going to go back to the banks again — I think it's an original sin. This does not, however, come directly from the review of the legislation, but it is possible to conclude from the analysis of the events that certain provisions were not recorded in the takeover legislation, but in other laws, and were therefore not respected and complied with. Similarly, certain provisions in the legislation were not adopted in a timely manner or contained a time-limit for the entry into force which allowed certain acquisition activities to be carried out. However, this does not mean that we agree with the situation when nothing is done and done or that nothing is to be done and acted, for where there is will there is power. With hope, we are also encouraged by the will and efforts we all put forward together, one step at a time, to improve legislation that will enable more effective prosecution of all criminal and controversial acts. We've talked a lot about this at this time, this week. We still have a lot of work to do; in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will actively help and participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u232	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the Commission is to examine all the facts and assess the contentious purpose of the management acquisitions of Istrabenza and Pivovarna Laško companies and the involvement of credit institutions in the main state ownership. However, since the investigation itself has shown that the scope should also be extended to legal function holders due to suspicion of involvement and abuse of political influence in the granting of loans to members of management bodies and the lending of loans to themselves or to an undertaking where the owners or co-owners were, it has been decided to establish the interests that favoured the achievement of the contested management acquisitions also in the area of the adoption of inadequate legal rules. In some ways, all those interviewed were united that the legislation in force allowed for the acquisitions, as they were presented, from the beginning. The takeover legislation did not regulate the internal phase of the integration of the company taken over, these relationships between employees and new management, as follows the development objective to achieve the results recorded in the takeover contract, nor does it provide for a financial aspect of the takeover. There was a desire for a modern takeover law, but the impact of the political orientations resulting from economic and social reforms also allowed for transaction exceptions. The fact is that everyone was looking for their own opportunity, state regulators were obliged to inform themselves of what was appropriate and right to stop the great appetites. The problem is Slovenia's greed of bank managers, which also substantiates the blame for the financial crisis. However, the share of the guilt and responsibility must also be entrusted to a central bank which did not exercise control functions. Two takeover laws were in force, namely the mid-1990s law and the 2006 amendment. The latter also introduced a one-year moratorium on the implementation of certain articles of the law relating to the confiscation of voting rights. However, the law of the 1990s provided for the submission of a proposal to the referee for offences, but it proved to be ineffective due to the lack of capacity of the judges to take over cases. A threshold of over 25% was also considered. The situation gave thought to anyone who was involved in the story in any way. There was a record of violations, but there was no chronic evidence. The introduction of a reverse burden institute has been proposed, which has significantly facilitated the work of the supervisory authorities in detecting irregularities. Most of the acquisitions took place in 2007. This was promoted by the 2006 Moratorium of Law. In contrast, the National Assembly was informed each year by the Agency of the takeover of companies even by name, but as shown in the report, there was no interest that the report would also be considered on the National Assembly’s home committees. The discussions found that in most of the acquisitions they were involved as sellers of the para-national fund. When the state banks were lending the takeover, part of the money ended up in Kad and the Court, so the money was not lost, but only the reallocation of the assets. Although the banks suffered damage, the recipients of the money preserved the assets. The same applies to shareholders who were not harmed by their acquisitions, on the contrary. In short, it was a procedural law that prescribed procedures and also provided for the role of the Agency in overseeing the implementation of the takeover law. Although the Competition Authority has assessed whether the individual concentration complies with the rules of competition or not, the acquisition law has been unclear and it has not been possible, since otherwise these matters would have been better regulated. As we know, in all cases the Bank has played a key role, and because of its unwise moves and poor insurance, it has also suffered the greatest damage. Manager's buyouts, to which Banka Slovenije was very skeptical, have also been the focus of highly unsustainable credit growth. In its financial stability reports, it published data on the volume of these purchases for several years in a row. The risk of these loans was also highlighted at meetings and in the presentation of the report in the National Assembly. Banka Slovenije, as regulator, had no option and could not influence such loans to be banned. All of this was legal and secured securities were a sufficient guarantee at the value of the loan. Warned that relationships could change quickly, they always came to a deaf ear. Only when there was an economic crisis and a gradual decline in value did they require consistent provisions for credit risks in these loans. The credit risk is one of the most important in banking, but, as we can see, in the past the banks have very poorly managed risks and therefore today there is a need for greater recapitalisation in these banks. Although banks have very clear limits on the extent to which they can be exposed or to which heights they can go to the individual committee, this is what was not respected because it played a role in the knowledge and influences of the policy, which led the Commission to decide to obtain a list of the credits hired by all political actors, including Members and Ministers. Banks have taken over 1.6 billion euros at the expense of the taxpayers who have rehabilitated these banks, and so far it has not been concretely demonstrated by the finger on the one who is responsible and should be responsible for the situation as it was. As we can see, the footage from before is in these banks today, and as we can see, we never learn anything. I'm sure whoever screwed this up isn't in a position to fix it. The economy is staggering, and largely because of the credit crunch that is still going on in our banks, because banks with state deposits are solving their own problems as a result of credits from management acquisitions. The situation and behaviour of banks have been explained that losses are also due to other credits that companies cannot repay, and these are quite something that Slovenia between the European Union countries is a recorder after the fall of GDP, which is absolutely reflected in the balance sheet of banks. It is noted that if companies are in difficulty, then they also follow the problems of banks. Of course, I wonder here how it is possible that Slovenian banks, which are owned by Slovenia, do not follow the needs of the Slovenian economy, because, as we can see, all of them have difficulties in obtaining credit with our banks, which is not detectable when they turn to foreign banks. I believe the banks are more cautious today, but when it comes to projects that are good, the bank's assessment is falling. Here, however, it would be possible to identify and confirm the thesis that I have already mentioned that the professional staff in the bank have remained the same since before, which evaluated credits for managers' buyouts, and that their beliefs are likely to remain the same, and nothing will change for a long time. The Commission's interim report is extensive and gives us an assessment of the data, we are faced with statements by the main actors that have led our economy and banks to the state we have. Every crisis also sobers the nation and usually brings out something clever. My opinion is that if the conjuncture were to continue, this story would not exist and all the tycoons would continue to be happy to sunbathe on their yachts and enjoy the favor of the system and the country in their villas by the sea, home and abroad. We support the proposed findings in the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u234	Your Honor! We have a proposal for conclusions to be considered and supported at today's session. The fact is that this is only part of what this commission of inquiry, as well as all the other investigative commissions, is supposed to do. First of all, the task is to identify the involvement of political actors and holders of public functions and powers in unusual transactions, in allowing unlawful benefits to individuals, groups and so on. Obviously, the Commission has not yet done this work, and the forecasts were that we could expect it to continue. The fact that there is a type of confusion in legislation, uncertainty, non-execution and so on, I believe, but it should not be a message when we support these conclusions that the real reason why certain supervisory, control functions are not performed is only in bad, loose, inconsistent legislation, but is primarily responsible for operators of functions over a period of time. This is crucial because if a law has not been able to implement a regulation, whether the holders of those powers have assessed that it gives results which are contrary to either moral standards or the implementation of other laws, in particular when it comes to the responsibility of financial controls and the transparency of the operation of tax regulations and similar, it is necessary to react without delay and it is not necessary to set up investigative commissions to determine how. And if you look at all the findings, somehow in general, they are only directed in a direction in which the Commission should also continue its work. However, we believe that the authorities in the ministries, in the government, will also look at these findings and, as some debaters have already said, that measures to improve regulation in this area will also be taken. Other than accepting these conclusions, we cannot vote in favour. We do not know exactly how to act in this separate opinion because we have heard two different implementations, on the one hand, that this separate opinion has been given earlier and that the final report and these conclusions already cover these warnings. We have heard otherwise here, but nevertheless the Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the conclusions proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the report. Mr. Gregor Golobich. He won't discuss it. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Today is Friday, and also the last day of that time. I think that some of the findings in these definitions are very clear, transparent and unequivocal. It is a matter of financing policy or, if you wish, lending today was controversial, and then management acquisitions were made without adequate insurance. Secondly, it is that the competent authorities, starting with the supervisory authorities and continuing not to list, have not, I stress, done their work, but for what they were and, most amazingly, and what I would like to stress, are still and still want to be absurdly well rewarded. And apparently the story goes on. We should now be back on the prize of some in the Mutual who will leave with rich rewards in such a situation and with such conclusions as we have today. I had to mention this because there is no reason at all for us to deal with these findings today. We are considering some of the findings, the mistakes that have been made, so that we can build security mechanisms on them. And when we talk about this, we find that the legislation, that is, our guilt, was inadequate; that there were too many subjective guidelines that had a free way; that there were unreasonable delays in taking into account the legislation. There are subjective elements everywhere, people who have allowed it. And the stupidest thing to say today is that we all agree that the findings are objective, that the findings are correct, that we will support them, and that in the same breath what is criticized, found, and what we want to prevent is happening. This is the phenomenon of this country and the phenomenon of all three branches of government, for which we must all take equal responsibility. Unfortunately, the worst result of these findings — now speaking as a human — is this: we had an economic crisis, and we still have it, we have a severe financial crisis, and we still have it, and we have an ever-increasing moral crisis in this country. Moral crisis. That hurts. And the conclusions, on the basis of which, of course, we have nothing tangible to be able to operate on a legal basis, are written just so that from now on it will not be so! To continue to respect, from now on, more than we have ever done — about all of us — moral values. Because, finally, you know, I really like to go into pure human logic. For as much as a man grabs, I said grab, some people steal – because you can't take everything with you when you're gone. I don't know what that's about. I don't know why people act like that when they hurt everybody. And we are now witnessing these findings, so I respect them, at least the findings are that when considering the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, spears would be broken right where the money that was essentially sanded between the fingers would be drained — for new investments, for better conditions for new investors, for new jobs with new investments and new jobs, but, however, any person who honestly, I stress, works honestly and lives needs assistance, which is officially called in bank jargon credit. Credits are needed by ordinary people, for a normal life or to slightly improve their lives, credits are needed by investors, investors, economists, developers. This is a help, not a gift and a payment for dishonest work, which happened at that time. I am very sorry that I am a member of the Committee on Economics and Finance and we are so many tax laws, and the law on this tax and the law on that tax, the law on the third tax, that I no longer know how many laws we have passed, but the finding is very clear in this committee. Unreally long delays take over these laws and still inadequate legislation, because everyone still thinks that we are writing laws and that laws exist to violate them. And we've become masters of law violations. It's right that he starts to warn himself about something. It is not right to warn today that this site is to blame, that it will be its fault tomorrow, or that everything that is today was the fault of the former authorities and so on. It is our fault that all of us who are not strict in taking into account our adopted legislation, which we are allowing us to see, once again, what is happening here – that those who are the most responsible still have huge rewards for wrongdoing, for dishonest work and for privilege, for the possibility of the privileges they have given to others. And so many moral values we're just going to have to start applying here. If we like to stress that we are the first and only important branch of power, the legislative branch of power, then we are also the first to take into account moral values, but that we will first point to people in the government as executive branches of government who do not have such moral values, and also those in the judicial branch of government who do not have moral values. I will support the findings in the hope that if now 90 accidentally hears everything that we have said that at least 5 or 6 will hear us and take into account that we will begin to develop moral values and draw attention to the moral values of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u238	Your Honor! I myself have quite a problem in supporting these essential findings of the Commission, although these findings are probably quite different from what the Commission itself or even the coalition members of the Commission initially wanted to find out. I am convinced that this commission should be appointed a commission for the discreditation of former ministers, with me, and the previous government, to be the key and most responsible in what has happened in connection with the buy-ins. This was the purpose of this commission, but the result is one bald child who, of course, couldn't find out something that wasn't and what isn't. And then, of course, the matter began to get into this if the legislation was bad, that the takeover legislation was bad. Indeed, the takeover legislation was weak until 2006. Since 2006, for the first time in this country, we have fully aligned the takeover legislation with the directives of the European Union and have made it very tighter, and these silent acquisitions, which have been, have not been legalised by a takeover offer. Indeed, we have tightened the sanctions for those who actually controlled companies but have not published the takeover bid and therefore the number of tenders made has increased. Not because there would have been more takeovers at the time, but because the many companies that had taken over had been apprehensive of the sanctions, they had finally feared the withdrawal of voting rights in the assemblies and had announced and announced the acquisitions. Of course, some acquisitions took place substantially before that, and most of these deviations, which were either with some stock parking facilities or with some bypasses, either derived from the transformation of PID into holding companies, or were derived immediately from the property itself, in fact individuals who were in influence and capital, accumulated shares, parked at different ends and then attacked one society; a typical example is Pivovarna Laško. The Pivovarna Laško system was built in anonymity with Atko-Primo, when neither of us ever knew who the owner was, because everything was hidden, and even to the media Mr Šrot lied that he had nothing to do with this society six months before it was revealed that this was the main one there. The least that's to blame for managers' buyouts, for these deviations in the takeover field, is the takeover legislation that is now in force. Politics wanted, in fact, this commission or the coalition part of this commission, to pin this law on the pranger, the takeover law, that is the source of evil, problems and that it allowed these deviations to happen. That's not true. It's really something else. The takeover legislation before and even a few years after that was actually out of control. The Securities Markets Agency, as well as the UVC, the Office of Competition Protection, have been systematically designed not to operate. There were people up there who were not without political ties to the current coalition. By the way, let me remind you that Mr Neven Borak, who led the Securities Market Agency during this critical period, is Mrs Helena Kamnar's partner, the Secretary-General of the current government. It's probably not unknown. Therefore, it is difficult to say that there are no such links, and it is difficult to say that Mr Neven Borak is the one who has ensured a good implementation of the takeover legislation. Who's watching the takeovers, who's controlling the takeovers? Government, Minister of Economy, Minister of Finance? No, no, no. The ATVP, the Securities Market Agency, with Mr Borak at the helm until 2007, was key in controlling these acquisitions. And what happened then? Nothing. And how could Mr. Borak be replaced, as you say, would be replaced. The law stated that we should prove him guilty twice, and for that reason that would be the only legitimate reason to get rid of him. That was the law. So, it was a systematic, built-in path for this wild property – inefficient control and inefficient people who carry it out. And the legislation that protects them from being replaced. So this is, in my opinion, what has led up, besides the links between the bankers that have financed these acquisitions, which, last but not least, this commission finds, and the takeovers, purely on the basis of friendly political connections. Again, did the previous government control NLB, the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr. Kramar? He's not here. Mr Kramar – many of you know in which political nest he fell and, of course, worked. This is clear to all, and it is clear to all that even at his time, when Mr Gaspari was the Governor of Banka Slovenije as regulator over the exposure of banks, of course this has happened, the key biggest credits for these management acquisitions have also occurred. Not the Minister of Economy, not the President of the Government, not the Minister of Finance, were not watching over the exposure of banks, or in a particular case the bank would either give credit or not. If anyone thinks that, he knows today when you rule, that's not the way it is. And in fact, the culprits, the culprits for these dislikes, are the disgraceful, damaging events of those who have allowed politicians to be placed at the head of regulators and banks. This is also happening in this mandate, as you first put the elected Member at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank. This is, and this thirst of individuals has led to all these anomalies, and not least to disasters. I think that even a lot of people would have been taken away, Mercury certainly, probably also Laško, if it hadn't been for the financial crisis that actually happened because of such phenomena, but not in Slovenia, but all over the world. Because of such escalations and unbridled greed for money. This is where you've been looking with this committee of culprits in previous politics because of a bad marriage. Let me remind you again, once again, that the takeovers Act and the Company Act, which were recast by Slovenian economic or corporate legislation in 2006, were laws that were harmonised in the development partnership. This law has been co-ordinated by the previous government with the Social Democrats, and you have also supported this law by the Social Democrats in Parliament. That's the way it is, because marriage is good. That the law is good, it is clear that even today, when it is not this government or the profession has proposed concrete improvements, upgrades or some new elements to be learned, from 2006 to 2011, that is, in 5 years! I am not saying that it would not be possible to write a better law or that everything is ideal, but within five years of its implementation you have not found one thing that you would suggest essential for these things that we are now talking about to change. All the experts interviewed have also confirmed this, and what was evident from the auditor of Jožet P. Damian of this report is that the fault lies in the ineffective or even lack of control over what the Bank of Slovenia and the ATVP is for and, of course, in this easy, easy-to-think lending of money to banks for such huge projects as these ownership consolidations and management acquisitions. And, Mr Kek, at the meeting held in the Cabinet of the President of the Government in 2005 – there is a record of that meeting on the websites, and it was signed by the former Secretary of State Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem. To date, no one has disputed these signatures and this record, nor has it disputed the credibility of the statements that are up there, or the events that are up there. He's not there and he can't talk about any Mercator and no sales because, once again, no government was selling Mercator. Mercator was sold by Kada and Soda, not by the government, and no audit to date has found anything illegal about this. The judgment that was made today to reject an action against all these participants in order to achieve something illegal is also rejected. It's nothing! You've worked out of this and forged political capital, but you haven't forged anything because you've been looking for something that isn't! And look where Mercator's shares are today and where they were, what money Mercator was sold for! The state earned the sale because it sold the stock at the right time if we look at the narrowness of the country as a seller. Indeed, the prices of the then shares at which Mercator was sold and the prices of Mercator’s shares today are, in fact, roughly the same. However, given that it is quite a few years from now, Mercator's stock prices should be twice as high today in order for that deal to be equal to twice as much today as it has been. Your Honor, I cannot support these decisions because there are such contradictions, when you say for the whole period, even for the period defined by the parliamentary inquiry [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u239	Mr. Vizjak, thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you. Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, the rest present! The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry gives us an insight into the levers of the takunisation of companies, which was carried out throughout the transition period and not only during the takeover of the Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz. We can also find a way to assist banks with these acquisitions, including credit institutions of the NLB Group and New Credit Bank Maribor, which are predominantly state-owned. The report shows that they were given, although not the best legal framework to prevent disputed acquisitions by 2007, but have not been implemented by banks and responsible authorities and the supervisory boards of banks. However, regulators and state supervisors did not properly monitor and enforce them. In doing so, I would particularly like to draw attention to some statements made by the Witnesses, which are repeated several times in this report. Perhaps I would like to quote Dr. Marijan Kocbek of the Faculty of Law in Maribor, who says that "it has already included an explicit ban on the financial assistance of the company to the recipient or to anyone, to the administration or to the third party to purchase its shares; therefore, the acquiring company must not provide financial assistance to the acquirer. Such transactions shall be null and void, which must be determined by the competent authorities." Therefore, the law enforcement authorities did not prosecute these phenomena and the courts did not process them properly. Nor is the modest number of cases that have been dealt with in the courts. This part of the report has not yet addressed in more detail the political entrepreneurship links that are intended to allow individuals to be credited and to take care of loose and weak acquisition legislation, to maintain financial non-transparentness and to ensure the human resources weakness of the supervisory authorities. These are, therefore, essential reasons for the largely unpunished acquisition of businesses and property to date to the detriment of the public interest. What else comes out of the report? The most responsible politicians in this area are ministers of the economy, finance ministers, justice and internal ministers and their secretaries or senior officials in the ministries, responsible regulators, namely the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Office of Competition Protection, the Supervisory Councils and Administrations of the Banks, the police, the prosecution, the anti-corruption commission operating during the transition, they knew, they also know today or should be obliged to know that illegal acquisitions are taking place through bank loans, including those owned by the State. They knew or should have known what the consequences of tycoon takeovers were, but they did not, and most of the time no action is yet. It follows from the Commission's report that the majority of those interviewed have ignored the provisions of the Company Act, which has since 1993 banned anyone from taking over the company by means of financial assistance from the company that he wishes to take over. It also follows from the hearings that there were, in the professional circles and also generally known ways of fraud that could be carried out through straw companies or fictitious transactions, in order to cover up the financial assistance of the takeover by the undertaking taken over by the acquirer. All the acquisition contracts that were carried out in contravention of the law are null and void. It seems, however, that no one has claimed the nullity of the acquisition contracts so far. How is that possible? Why do not all those listed today, who should act against all the tycoons who have illegally acquired their property, do so? It also appears that no one, either a tycoon or a member of the bank boards or a member of the supervisory boards of the banks, nor the state supervisors and regulators, nor the officials or high officials of the ministries at the ministries have so far been responsible for their work either politically or indemnity or criminally. How is this possible, and so much damage has been caused to the Slovenian economy and public funds? The Commission's report does not show which companies took illegal acquisitions at the time of the transition, but it is assumed that such acquisitions were very large after Slovenia's independence. Why has no economic crime law enforcement body investigated this? In cases of illegal takeovers, why was it not required that the acquisition contracts be null and void? Why has the illegal acquisition of property not yet been taken away from the tycoons, since the Penal Code makes this possible? Notwithstanding the fact that the purpose of the investigation was limited to the political responsibility of the holders of political functions in two cases of illegal takeovers, the witnesses provided information which, in my conduct, should also inform the law enforcement authorities and require action from all those responsible for all illegal acquisitions from Slovenia's independence. I am surprised that there have not yet been complaints against members of bank administrations and against members of the supervisory boards of banks who, despite the legal prohibition of such a method of lending to the takeovers, have offered loans for illegal acquisition financing and have thus compromised the operation of banks owned by the State. Who and why protect them? I am surprised that there have not yet been complaints against the most responsible state regulators and supervisors from the time of transition and against the most responsible persons in the current financial, economic, judicial and internal ministries, as they only knew whether or not they should know that there are conflicting acquisitions by means of illegal lending by banks, which would require each of those responsible to take appropriate action in their context and none of them has done so. The report also raises suspicions of corruption, including those who are objectively most responsible for inadequate legislation, so that I think the Commission of Inquiry should inform the Commission at least to prevent corruption. The report of the Commission of Inquiry is very informative. The epilogue of the investigation should also be initiated procedures for the seizure of illegally acquired property and for the punishment of perpetrators. Economic crime and corruption do not have political colours. The common interest of all Members should be to put an end to all kinds of crime, so I hope that, despite the poor experience with the investigative commissions, this time a real epilogue of this investigation will come. In view of the above, I can commend the report and, for most of the proposed conclusions, I think they are appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor – he will not discuss it. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is right to recall the period during which Posedel's investigative commission was involved, which identified political responsibility due to the suspicion of involvement in financing disputed management acquisitions and the lack of takeover legislation. This was the period from 2005 to 2008, the period of the government of Janez Janša, a period of marked conjuncture. If Pahor's government took office at the beginning of the global crisis, however, the basic characteristic of the government of Janez Janša during the period 2004-2008 is that it ruled in times of fat cows and large economic growth. We remember the cheap money, the big returns on the stock exchange and in the various funds, the overblown construction sector and so on and so on. At the time, the government was uncritically spending, carrying out tax reform and wage reform in the public sector, all of which today appears to be a major deficit in the state sector or the state budget. During the Janša government, 27 management tycoon takeovers were approved in the economy. Let me list some of them: Mercator, Pivovarna Laško, Merkur, SCT — which did not unfold until the time of the Pahor government. Thus, the current government has to deal with the problem of unemployed workers in these companies, thanks to the Taiwanese acquisitions between 2005 and 2007, and therefore recapitalise the biggest Slovenian bank. During the time I described it, the population in the Republic of Slovenia has also increased most since 1991. Since 1991, most people have moved to Slovenia in 2007 and 2008, precisely because of the need for overheated construction, mainly from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia and Croatia. If then the economists, as well as Janša’s government, saw and knew that this overheating of construction could not end well, today would be much easier and better during the crisis. Today, however, it points to our government, to President Pahor and ministers, not to take care of the lawless workers who have lost their jobs, who have lost their earnings, and that we must recapitalise our largest banks. In fact, these problems were caused by overheated economies, the swallowing of managers and managers and the failure of the then government policy from 2005 to 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The involvement of individual public function holders and the assessment of the possible impact on the so-called tycoon loans in the public are of great interest. The acquisitions of various companies certainly did not take place without political bots, especially when it comes to the New Ljubljana Bank and the Novo Credit Bank Maribor. It's not just the managers who found themselves in the right place at the right time, it's the law and the bank. In newspapers and magazines, we read insightful articles about the unemployed, the recession, the unconscious managers, and various social policy topics. The difference between the rich and the poor is growing, and there are more and more young people with college education waiting for work. On the one hand, the country saves poverty through social transfers, and on the other hand, it helps banks with guarantees to save the tycoons from the misery they have jointly cooked. What's left? The remaining are small and medium-sized enterprises, but they will not be able to survive from the promise. It is right to point to those who have put the country in such an impeccable financial position, but if we look at it, nothing has been done so far that the so-called tycoons have come before the law enforcement authorities and captured the tush of the truth. People don't know the banking and monetary system, because otherwise what we don't want will happen. Banks come in a very simple way for money, and when the state and policy stand by them, there is no fear that banks should fear for existence despite the large sums they have spent on managers' buyouts. Such work around various management buyouts would not be so attractive if things were to be transparent in the public eye. But no, strange things were happening and things were leaking out to the public, so it became even more doubtful, and in the final stage it turned out that the research journalists were right when they discovered the whole thing at the beginning, but they didn't listen. This makes it possible to think that politics and government are linked to so-called tycoons who are voting on money and power, and in the public eye they want the impression that they are being fought with all their might. Packages of measures don't have positive effects, they all kind of drag like a ditch of snakes, so lastly I ask myself: Who should we check, the ones from before or you from now on? Everyone knows each other, in a way, they've co-decided, and no one wants to take responsibility. It is therefore right for the parliamentary investigation to clarify why such anomalies have occurred at all and for the people responsible to keep accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik – he will not discuss it. Janko Weber – he won't discuss it. Mag. Sara Wheeler – you won't discuss it. Matjaž Han – will not discuss. Bogdan Chapich – he will not discuss it. Majda Shirtz – no. Mr. Anton Kampush – no. Willi Trophynik – no. The victory of the nobles of Jelinčič – no. Aloysius Potočnik – no. Silven Majhenič – he was just discussing, I apologize. Mr. Franco Yuri, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief, because our colleague Franci Kek has already told us everything. But I was somewhat intrigued by my colleague Visiak's claim when he claimed that Mercator had not been sold by the government. Of course, it wasn't sold by the government. It was sold by Kad and the Court. But who was at the head of the Soda at the time? Mr Marko Pogačnik was at the head of the Court, who is the chairman of the Committee on the Economy of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Well, I'd say that, Mr. Visac is right. Mercator was not sold by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mercator was sold by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, I'm afraid there's no more time. [[advertising from the hall]] I know this happens a lot, but you don't have time anymore. It should be arranged in such a way that you have an opportunity to say something in the end. Mrs Breda Pecan will not discuss it. Applicant, investigative committee, Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At the start of this commission of inquiry, a common agreement was reached between all members and all members that this Commission would act differently than some of those appointed in this Parliament, with a clear objective, with a known target and a name and surname that it would like to investigate and prove something to it. We are therefore a precise period, which will be reviewed and assessed below, whether there is any suspicion of political cooperation in the individual disputed management acquisitions at Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz, that we will do this work, which is today on the table and which some are obviously not even, I will say, fly well, so in this part there is no particular name for Pivovarna Laško, not Istrabenz, nor for the one involved. I am therefore surprised by the performance of the SDS representative, who voted in favour of this joint report at the last meeting. In view of the fact that this minutes are still of an internal character, it is also a shame to argue whether this interim separate opinion is an integral part of this final report. We will do this further and also make no significant contribution to this. At the same time, I would say that I was very surprised by the implementation of one of the SDS Members, but I will not give him the name not to give him the possibility of a replica, but I remembered at the time of his speech that if you step on the tail of a cat, it would blossom. Not by name or by whatever means we referred to this period, which is claimed to have been the only sacred. And the assessment that this commission should be a commission for the discreditation of former ministers – perhaps it would be right for the author of this statement to imagine how many individual discredits he has already experienced in this House, even today with the very unfair, unfair and selfless criticism of Dr. Neven Borak. Perhaps if you read his tape, you could exclaim from this that Dr. Neven Borak is, in one part, as eloquently assessed as he is, but at the very least it is important who his wife is and where she is employed. So these statements, these discredits, they're just some people allowing themselves and implementing them. However, I am sure that the Commission has done well and that when we are talking about takeover legislation, it would be good to review the list of revised laws published in the interim report. This is not only the Law on takeovers with all changes, but also the Law on the Market of Securities, on Banking Law, on Company Law, all legislation that has an impact, direct or direct, on takeovers as well. And that is why it is so discriminating or insulting to speak only of those who have done controversial managerial takeovers by 2006, probably very unfair, but it is true that the contents of the report have found that these cases have occurred virtually all the time and that then, with the appearance of a new government in 2004, everything has been interrupted and that everything is fine now, otherwise the government would have already adopted a change of law. And it was also very unfair to quote, even in a separate opinion, only a fraction of the statements made by individual witnesses. Virtually every witness made a statement in one part that someone might like, and then it is emasculated. It is therefore stated in the conclusion that the whole, and also the author of the takeover legislation, is said by the Law on takeovers, that Mr Marijan Kocbek has made it very clear that the situation in the area of takeover legislation is not satisfactory, and this has been argued by examples of how the takeover legislation is regulated in other countries, that within the ministries a group of experts has been formed to keep an eye on developments on the market, that is to say, what is happening to react immediately and unfortunately nothing to us. This was also stated in the recital, and also in the conclusions that unfortunately there is no action in the area of takeover legislation, even though we see what is going on, what is going on with the acquisition of media houses, nothing is going on in the securities market. Finally, a month ago, the National Assembly adopted an authentic explanation of a law that was likely to be amended. What bothers me most personally in this regard is that, in the face of such a critical situation, which is also in this area and which everyone has been able to demonstrate as well, even more dramatic as it is, there is no common point for the opposition and the coalition and virtually everyone to look for solutions. Just accusing and painting how all was well within the mandate of the previous government is very misleading and unrealistic. Indeed, Mr Kramar, Director of the New Ljubljana Bank, was unhappy for some time, and then all the attempts that happened were unfortunate, but during the period of the largest credits, the bank was certainly representatives of the Government, and the Secretary of State was also a member of the Supervisory Board. That the government had no influence is not true. In this mandate, when most credits were granted for managers' acquisitions, one important law – two, three places also pointed out that the Bank of Slovenia had warned that the credits provided by business banks went across all borders, mainly for managers' acquisitions, and that the Government had proposed a change in banking legislation, but in 2006 with effect at the end of 2007. In one year, what had to be done. Therefore, sir, I have almost lost my name, so here in this part it is not a matter of finding a culprit in one or the other political option or one or the other party. This part will be processed and, I think, in the relatively short fall time, it will also be proposed for that period and for these two specific cases. Just to say how the minutes of a meeting with the then president are on the website, is one fact, and the other fact is that the then State Secretary made two public statements – what she wrote in this minutes and what she gave in the interview, and she will probably tell the real story as a witness to be heard, as she must. So I think about the particular case itself that there will be a lot of, enough time below when this will be the specific topic of the investigation, and at this point it was the only thing that really surprised me, this gallbladder response of some who are not even mentioned in the report by name, not by name, not by function. It is true, however, that the Ministry of the Economy is responsible for the preparation of the takeover legislation in all mandates, the takeover law is said to be the same as the finance minister in the field of financial law, and that we will write this very precisely for this particular period when the second set of investigations is under way. In this first part, I repeat that the Commission has never adopted any decision, what Mr Petan has also confirmed, by voting and that these final conclusions, these five findings, were voted by all six members present, no one opposed. But Mr Petan was at the meeting, so I can only say that we are satisfied with this first part. More importantly, what worries in this report, and which comes from these hearings, is that it is typical, even perhaps unnecessary, to say Slovenian. When a witness in the field of law-makers was normally fine, it was regulation, regulators, it was the banks' fault. When she was a witness from former public officials, it was the regulators, the banks. We even had a case where two regulators began to accuse each other of who did not perform their function, which I think is very bad and that these procedures need to be unified and changed so much that not only formal but also substantively, but also formally. However, since the law does not state that the prospectus or content of the takeover offer must be reviewed, it is formally sufficient if a prospectus is issued, but it does not matter what is written in it. Therefore, there have been so many cases that we can regret, and even more regret if, instead of starting to resolve it, there has been an additional problem with these inter-political conflicts, because the matter is certainly very problematic and can be overwhelmed as it has already happened, even in the future with other names, because we know that ownership is not yet, above all, as it should be. So I thank once again, as President of the Member States and Members, and I am sure that these conclusions or conclusions are very close and that life is as it is, but it is sadder that some do not wish to accept this as facts and as red lights or alarms after resolution, and that the Securities Market Agency itself has already forwarded amendments to the law, that the Commission itself has concluded that if this product is not soon to be made out of intersectoral coordination, it will also submit an application for a change of legislation in this area, because it is absolutely necessary that the anomalies no longer take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. All the debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the basis of Article 71(1). I'm giving you time to report to the discussers. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Five minutes, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I just want to read the first part of the second decision or other essential findings of the Commission, which probably would have made it difficult for any Member, if he had read it well, to support it. What's he saying? "For the whole period, even for the period defined by the parliamentary inquiry, the legislation in the field of acquisition was inadequate or inadequate. This does not, however, come directly from the review of legislation, but it is possible to conclude by analysing events that certain provisions were not recorded in the takeover legislation but in other laws and were therefore not respected and complied with." Respectful, if anything is written in the law, then it must be respected and respected, including what is directly or indirectly relevant to acquisitions. The Act on Economic Companies and the Law on takeovers are close in a lot of provisions, and it would be foolish to repeat certain legal dictions in the Law on takeovers if they are already in the economic constitution, as we say in the Law on Economic Companies, written. And the parliamentary commission found that this was a problem. Your Honor, I cannot support this. If you do not have such dictions of problems, and if the Commission has found out what the inadequacies and shortcomings of the takeover legislation are, why has it not written this taxiway, if this was not well arranged, it was not well arranged, it would be so good to arrange or better to arrange, because it was so arranged, it happened that takeover or that matter. None of that. Some general conclusion that something is inappropriate, lacking, what is the problem, what is the problem? Well, that's my basic thought. And once again, this takeover legislation was supported in this House by a relatively strong consensus; they were rare against, one or two Members, and 50 and more supported them. It was also said here by one of the Members that the previous government had spent uncritically and that now there are problems. I would ask you to stop making excuses to the previous government for once, because I know exactly this: even if the next one, who will not be yours, will be guilty in one month, so the present and the former, only the one that was in between, will not be. So, some figures clearly show that the previous government was reducing the deficit, even in 2007 it got a surplus, so we brought more into the budget than we did, the public debt fell, measured in the gross domestic product. In short, the question of where we would be today if it weren't for the debt of a country then really being one of the lowest in the European Union. Networks. It has been highlighted here how dare anyone say that he was the Director of the Securities Market Agency and that he is still a partner of the current Secretary of the Government and always an important official at the Ministry of Finance or also Director of the Directorate, Mrs Helena Kamnar. Look, we're always talking about the problem of these networks. These are some connections, family, friendly, which can eventually lead to such matters. We know this kind of connection is pretty friendly. Like the NPU, the Pogačar with all the other officials of this government. This is what I think is a problem in this country that no one wants to face. Previously it was said here: yes, indeed, Mr Kramar, the director of the New Ljubljana Bank, knows where the nest is – LDS – and that there was a supervisory board of the bank that should have done so. The credit board of banks shares loans and the credit board is the board of directors. The Supervisory Board shall determine and speak of loans only when they exceed an extreme high value, which in none of these cases has occurred. And once again, the minutes. You're saying that that record that he was talking about, and it's a document of a meeting, is one thing, and what we know is something else. I mean, for me, a written document is something that's true, but all the fillings are fillings. And if you're giving more weight to filling up than paper documents, genuine documents that no one's arguing, that's biased, and it's hard to believe that you're right, not the one who signed and wrote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Numerous data show that there were several thousand acquisitions in Slovenia, and there were many well-intentioned, many of which were also successful in further business, such acquisitions as this, and many malicious, harmful. Greed here had no limits on individuals, and no one will convince me that all of this also happened with the systematic preparation of such legislation by 2005 or 2006. Not only in the Law on takeovers and the Law on Economic Companies, but also in other laws, it was based on the fact that even if the interests of law enforcement authorities or those institutions which should be supervised were essentially powerless. No one's gonna convince me it wasn't like that. This was a system-wide terrain for this to happen. And why was John Janš’s mandate, as you all know, the most receptive of all? Because these were the concluding acts that did not begin in 2005; this was the preparation of a series, a series of years, these links, the connections between bankers, between politics, between the prosecutions, between judges and so on. And this, look, unfortunately, could not be discovered so quickly, but it was even more impossible to interfere. In order to be able to involve the government or those we call politicians with some competence, we can also, of course, take action. I well recall that when the management of the Securities Market Agency was replaced, it was quite clear how many cases there were when Mr Borak had to take action at the time, but they were in the drawer. And of course, the takeovers happened. And it was only that law that was passed in the previous term, and formerly, Comrade Vizjak mentioned here that only two, one Member and one Member had not accepted it. All the others who were in the previous term, you confirmed it, in the conviction that that law was certainly a step forward, and it was. And then I remember very well how Mr Kordez laughed at the cameras when he was preparing for the takeover of Mercury, because that law could no longer live. He had everything, just a dot on and he had to press. Of course, he also suffered from this financial crisis. So to speak now that the legislation, in particular those by a colleague, then Minister Visjak, was preparing to be carried out by a fertiliser, the discreditation was carried out — it was neither proven nor possible to conclude. This has also been confirmed by the witnesses, and this commission, which has been established, has certainly been for this purpose, but it is true that you are now seen to be the proponents or those idea heads with this commission. You definitely got hit back here like a boomerang or a rake because you couldn't get away with what you wanted. Of course, I would be happy to have the right actors discovered on this committee as well – because they are probably also known by the right actors, but they are probably difficult with some legal means to prove, detect, condemn, but they would probably also be convicted if the judiciary, the prosecution were functioning. But how do the courts and the prosecution work for us, and I'll say, I'll have that much time, just two cases. Somebody explain to me why the judge stopped Mr. Thaler's house investigation. Somebody tell me with what argument he could have stopped it. And then there's the other case, about the prosecution types. On the Mandate-Election Commission, we discussed the case where the Government wanted an officer who had wrongly paid a fee of more than EUR 2 000 illegally, which it found was contrary to the law, the Court of Auditors, found the police, filed a complaint, and the prosecutor rejected the reason that there was no apparent intent in this case and rejected it nicely. These are our prosecutors, this is our judiciary, these are our institutions that function where they should. If the law is still so good, if the institutions don't work [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The meeting will decide on the findings of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the context of the vote, if correct, at 20.12. There'll be a vote at 20.12. Thank you very much. I'm breaking this agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u254	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Secret Data in the framework of the shorter procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading and the decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 14. Seven. 2011. We move on to Article 1 and move on to the decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I note that there is no wish for this, so I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third-reading law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the provision of free access to arms trade documents in 1990-1994 under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law providing free access to arms trade documents in 1990-1994 is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on the Rehabilitation of the Upper Mežičska Valley in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiške Dolina is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Report of the Investigative Commission to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of involvement in financing disputed management acquisitions and the lack of takeover legislation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the findings of the Commission of Inquiry are adopted. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 26. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Media Bill in the context of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a media law is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much. In our opinion, we have said that we will vote in favour of this law. However, I must say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that unless the 123rd paragraph, which is disputed for us, has been amended, there have been no arguments other than those for the legality of the networks. It is also controversial from a legal point of view. So, at this stage, we support it, and if this is not changed at the next stage, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u257	I will reiterate that the law is at least three counts of violations of the Constitution – the right to free economic initiative, the right to freedom of information and information, and interference with rights already acquired. Those colleagues and colleagues who will vote in favour of this law will, in fact, vote against the constitution, against the law and against themselves. Just to think. Anyone can read and interpret the Constitution as he wants. Once again, I stress: we wanted to, we checked, it is not a premise that no one would be able to identify, an inequitable person written by Barovic, and colleagues who are not lawyers, in the Slovenian National Party, but some of these findings, including a recognised constitutional lawyer whose name I will no longer repeat, and I think that if we do not believe these people, then you are really confirming that Article 2 of the Constitution should be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to all those who explain their vote, or the voice of the Group of Members, and not to persuade other Members and Members how to vote. We did this in the debate itself. Please hold on to this. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We Social Democrats have been monitoring the creation of the media law and have been co-forming certain provisions in many ways, but some have not. Although we agree with the objectives of the law and the principles of the law, we must say that in the form in which the law was introduced, there are still some open issues that we find that both the professional and the interested public do not have a uniform view of them. In the opinion of the parliamentary group and in the debates of individual Members and Members, particular attention was given to certain such places in the law. Let me say that our position is this: in the first reading, we will support the media law and, of course, we will deny it support if the cities that show the most critical image are not corrected in further consideration. It is a question of the Council for Media, Radio Networks, some other issues related to the status of a free journalist, restrictions on cross-ownership, and also what we have talked about, the issue of correction and complementarity. We expect that the time for dialogue and the search for appropriate solutions to the second treatment at the home working body and plenary session is sufficient, so we will do as I have predicted. Of course, it is up to each individual to press the key as dictated by his beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Voting against it means agreeing to non-amendments. For the changes we have taken on all those who have been pressured in the press, this is said in the media, both in various ownership and with journalists and also in their autonomy, we have met years ago, and the memory must not be short. At that time, we all made it clear that a healthier media landscape must be taken care of, even in the sense that it could be more self-regulatory and professionally strengthened, making the law visible support for media literacy, in the broader sense of the word. Today, of course, is the opportunity to be closer to these changes. These changes were written by the profession, don't forget which is like distance, but admits, as in this case also the press unions, that we need a better marriage and that this marriage is a better marriage. Therefore the voice against them is against those who helped him to write and to forge, and not for a short time. Vote for the law, respected, means regulated and greatly increased co-financing of the media, greatly increased, almost once so increased. It means greater autonomy, which is worth remembering, regulated and coordinated in spirit, as was once supported by the President of the Government, recently when he accepted journalists, and also agreed on a way to appoint responsible editors. This form is loyal to his tendencies. And it also means transparent ownership, not so that someone who doesn't have money, not even business ethics, can only become the owner of the media. It also means Slovenian music, which does not spin at night, but in certain quotas during the day. And a vote for marriage also means a voice against the pressures you face openly, lobbyically and commercially from morning to morning. Whoever enters this game means it's buying to put a partial interest in the public interest. As a matter of fact, the client really isn't for sale. That is why, of course, we will support the law and complement it in certain parts, which I have already explained in terms of acquisition and ownership. On the question of the Council, please follow the strategy recently presented by the Broadcasting Council with Mr Jelovac's signature and which appeals to an independent body, as it does in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u262	Once again, I would like to point out that you are not arguing any more in your explanation of vote, but, above all, just explain your vote and why you intend to vote in this way. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote against it. I'm not going to go into trouble, which you've forbidden me to do, but it's a simple thing. Indeed, in explaining this law, the minister said: "He will not really support any better solution than those proposed by himself." So, really, he's not going to support any solution, really. Therefore, I must say that in this national assembly we have heard from all parties, all political groups and all individuals the conditions for supporting this law if the amendments are supported. We have very, very bad experience with amendments. We still have bad experiences. And I don't think the amendments will really be supported. So it seems to me that the law will have to be rejected in the first place. We will also do so, and please save the amendments for something other than bluffing here for something that is not right, has not been accepted and even since the coalition so-called, except for coalition soup, has not been well done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 39. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The bill on the confiscation of property of illegal origin is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 5. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 31. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 31. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Black Mountain on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on the progress of the state border in the border sections VIII to XV and XXII. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro on social security and the administrative agreement on the implementation of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro on social security. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual protection of classified information, this is a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and operation of scientific and cultural centres. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Agenda item, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the conclusion of the European Council of 25 MARCH 2011 ON THE AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 136 OF THE TREATY ON THE ACTION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION WITH REGARD TO THE STABILITY MECHANISMS FOR THE MEMBER STATES WHICH THE COURT IS THE EURO. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, it's to the office's refined speech. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the assembly approve all the proposed official texts of the laws by one vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the vote on the following proposal for a decision: We confirm the officially consolidated text (a) of the Law on Societies, (b) the Law on Public Collections, (c) the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services, (c) the Law on Financial Insurance, (d) the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and (e) the Law on Agricultural Lands. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has officially consolidated the texts of those bills. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia The President of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, is by letter dated 6. Seven. 2011 proposed to the National Assembly that Dr. Dunjo Jadek Pensa be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the word "magic." Urošu Kreku, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! The President of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, proposes to Judge the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Dunjo Jadek Pensa. This decision was taken on the basis of a thorough examination of the proposals on the basis of a call for a judge, interviews with experts outside the register and through consultation with parliamentary groups. Dr. Dunja Jadek Pensa has been a judge of the Supreme Court since 2008. Before that, she performed her work as a district judge and a senior judge in the Economics Department of the District and Higher Court in Ljubljana. It has the highest level of academic education, which it successfully uses in the transfer of knowledge and experience in the profession. It is recognised as a writer of professional literature and also performs a number of other functions within the legal profession. The fact is, Dr Dunja Jadek Pensa was already a candidate for a Constitutional Court judge in 2007. From then on, she became a judge of the Supreme Court, gained additional experience, knowledge, competence and maturity to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Dr. Dunja Jadek Pensa is a judge with a high degree of expertise and personal integrity. All of this has ensured that it will be able to make an important contribution to the functioning of the Constitutional Court and to take decisions in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u267	Mr President of the National Assembly, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, colleague and colleague! Members and Members of the Social Democrats will be invited to support the election of Dr Dunjo Jadek Pens as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We agree with the explanation and the choice. Our belief is that Dr. Dunja Jadek Pensa has a quality, brilliant judicial career, the necessary knowledge and personal qualities for the presented function. In order to confirm the proposal, we also decide to express our firm conviction that the rule of law and its institutions must be strengthened, which is also true of the Constitutional Court, which does not have one of the judges since the end of May, and in order to demonstrate in this way our desire to strengthen the rule of law. We will therefore decide on the proposal, and we expect the election of the Constitutional Judge to be successful in another attempt.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u269	Thank you so much for saying that. The SDS did not participate in a consultation with the President of the Republic, because we feel, in our own skin, very mildly, his two-faced approach, when one criterion, one criterion applies to the government coalition and the other to the SDS. Since the beginning of the constitution, an ineffective government coalition, which has started to deteriorate very rapidly over the past few months, has received its full support and protection, and at the same time has been the SDS, and is also because it has repeatedly proposed a number of measures to get out of the economic crisis and has pointed out a number of problems in the country, accused of disrupting the coalition, bringing unrest into its work and irresponsible behaviour. For many years, the Youth Week has been using hate speech, highly offensive and even child abuse to process visible representatives of the SDS. Hundreds of such contributions are also published on our website. However, none of the called, not the President of the State, nor the Ombudsman, nor the other competent, have detected anything controversial, offensive, unworthy or even criminal, even though they have certainly noticed this because of their lenientness. Even more, the President of the Republic gave an interview for the Youth Week a few months ago in which he issued the following order: the policy of Janez Janša should be said no. This order probably applies to most Slovenian media. In the SDS, we also understand that this order concerns all those who are co-forming and applying this policy. The Group of Members is the pillar of this Janša policy. In doing so, the President of the Republic missed all mistakes, even though they were contrary to fundamental human standards and international declarations and resolutions. Although Slovenia is a democratic country after the Constitution, the President of the Republic grants the highest national distinctions to certain institutions of the repressive authorities of the totalitarian countries that have knowingly violated human rights and freedoms at home and abroad in the implementation of the protection orders for this totalitarian authority on the basis of secret acts and documents. This symbolically and practically shows what the President's values are based on. There are many more reasons why we gave up the President's invitation, but there is no time or need for any further explanation. We do not challenge the President's way of carrying out the selection procedure. Also, this method he took was admissible and not used for the first time. However, the President's specific proposal makes it difficult to avoid thinking that this is not a favoured legal lobby which, thanks to both ministers of the Liberal Democracy, has already chosen a number of superstandard legislative solutions in this mandate. Let me remind you that he's a magician. Goran Klemenčič, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, has already warned several times that only a few law offices manage most of the country's business, which is not good for transparency, correctness, legality and other matters. The opinion of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission must be taken seriously and the President of the Republic must have ignored it, and in the event of the election of candidate Dunja Jadek Pens, the Bar Association will be able to have a direct impact on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That's not good for the country. Therefore, the parliamentary group of the draft proposal of the President of the Republic will not support and vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support the proposal of the President of the Republic, who proposed to Dr. Dunjo Jadek Pensa as a member of the Constitutional Court, at the LDS. I would like to base my proposal very briefly. We agree with the proposal because we estimate that Dr. Dunja Jadek Pensa has broad professional qualities, has rich work experience and also has excellent personality qualities. For all this, we will, of course, support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič, Social Democrats; Robert Hrovat, Slovenian Democratic Party; Franci Kek, Zares; Guido Kres, Slovenian People's Party. I am also a member of this Commission as chairman, and the Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? I guess not, which is why we decide on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the table of the President and by their name. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for her, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 20.55 and will continue until 21.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 9:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u273	Colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 32nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read to you the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the election of Dr Dunja Jadek Pensa as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 15 July 2011. 79 ballots were distributed, 79 ballots were delivered. There were no invalid ballots, 79 ballots were valid. 50 Members and Members voted in favour, against 29. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Dunja Jadek Pensa was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. / applause/ I ask Dr. Dunjo Jadek Pensa, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u274	I swear to judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience, and to work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u275	Does the judge want to speak to the council? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u276	Thank you again for your word. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for your trust. It's pretty obvious I've got a new duty ahead of me. I hope I'll be a part of it. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u277	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a judicial election to the District Court in Lenart. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ksenija Kotnik to the District Court of Justice in the Lenart District Court. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision establishing the Electronic Communications Council. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 2. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Slovenia as a member of the RTV Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Act. Jožko Čuk for the period until the end of the four-year term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, whose term ended prematurely. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 27. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Maruša Tratnjek as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia for the period until the end of the term of office of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia for the period 2010-2014. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of involvement in the financing of disputed management acquisitions and the lack of takeover legislation. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine and assess the actual state of issue and funding of the Slovenian Week and Express for free weeks. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Patrio case. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The National Assembly is held at the 29th session of 22. 6. In 2011 he took note of the conclusion that Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, who serves as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, is 22. 6. In 2011 she ceased to serve as a Member, which also gave rise to the termination of the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The Zares Group – the new policy is 23. 6. 2011 informed the President of the National Assembly that he was proposing a candidate for the Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Ambassador of the Zares Group – a new policy by Franc Yuri. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision on the conclusion of the termination of the chairmanship of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Ambassador Vila Trofenik resigned from the Zares Group – a new policy, so the National Assembly, based on Rule 112, Article 200 and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure, took note of the following conclusion: It is clear that Member William Trofenik has ceased to be a member of the Zares Group – a new policy. As a result of the termination of the membership of the Zares Group, the new policy of Willi Trofenik has ceased to serve as Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a president of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The draft decision was submitted to the assembly by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want a word? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development President Villa Trofenik, the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 12. Seven. In 2011, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. Because of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the proposal of the law is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 39, which you received on the bench. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Rail Safety in the framework of the shorter procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday, 13. Seven. In 2011, he carried out a second examination of that draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. Since qualified applicants have announced amendments for the third reading of the draft law, the assembly has suspended the consideration of this point. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. The SDS Group tabled amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4 of the Act. Since the amendment to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 2, 3 and 4, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the amendments of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I believe it's already late and we're a little tired, but let me try again to explain our amendments to the Rail Safety Act. The proposer proposes that those level crossings be equipped with certain mirrors and then the railway vehicles have special stroboscope lights. This is supposed to contribute to greater transport safety. It must be said that this model is not tested and that we do not know if this would really contribute to greater transport safety, although we cannot really doubt the well-intention of such a measure. However, it must be said that these level crossings remain unprotected. Despite the stroboscope lights and despite the mirrors, there won't be any prisons. That is why our first amendment is actually logical, and that is what all ministers, all governments and even the National Assembly have always been looking forward to. Our amendment proposes that within five years the Government adopt a programme to arrange all today's dangerous, unprotected railway crossings by either lifting or building outside the level crossings and equipping the rest with prisons and semi-prisoners. This, honourable fellow Member and fellow Members, is the solution. In this case, we don't need any more stroboscope lights on the vehicles. And that is what must be the final goal, and that is the goal that we must look for. So today we have a solution with mirrors, with stroboscope lights. Look, I can't imagine saying to our citizens and citizens: look, we have a marriage, we're not going to make prisons, we're not going to build you [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u279	My friend Dr. Verlich, it's only been three minutes. You'll get two more minutes; turn it off. Two more minutes. Would you like two more minutes? You don't want to? You can have it. Okay. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Franz Gniedarsich, please. He's got five minutes of every debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the proposers, we find that we cannot support these amendments – not because we would not agree with the proposal to regulate all transitions, either outside the military or otherwise protect them with prisons and so on, but because it does not solve problems immediately. Our proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law immediately increases traffic safety, and this does not mean that the state cannot build outside the level crossings or further protect the passages with ramps and so on. The problem is that it is certainly impossible to do so within five years, for this would certainly require a few billion resources that we do not have. However, we believe that these solutions proposed by the SDS will be implemented gradually, of course over a longer period of time. In this context, I would like to point out that we do not oppose such solutions, but in this case they cannot reach expression and realization within this time frame. However, the adoption of these supplements is not an obstacle in order not to do so in this respect. We will support the law as amended in the second reading, and we cannot support the first amendment, which also means successful other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our Group of Members, we support these amendments, and the others that have been tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. After all, crossings across the railway are not disco clubs where there would be stroboscope lights and mirrors. There are also some strange places where animir ladies would gather and look in the mirrors, but they are very serious things, so we need to take it seriously. And I think he is seriously considering the amendment to Article 1 and then the other amendments to Article 1. I think it's too clear that someone is going to make mirrors for all of Slovenia, that someone is going to make stroboscope lights, and then someone takes advantage of it. I think that it is not possible to file such a matter one year before the elections, because certain acts expire after a certain period, and one would expect such an application to be submitted at the beginning of the term of office, not at the end. Four years is a little longer than just one year. At the outset, the Slovenian national party did not support such solutions, which are absolutely outside European standards. Europe introduces video control, Europe introduces everything else, and above all, it requires that in the short term all the essentials of the transitions be removed, not that we are now giving someone one way of making a profit here, and then, if anything happens, it will happen – it is not the one that looks in the mirror or that light blinds him and reminds him of something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 39. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The other amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 have thus become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 31. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice holiday. And see you in September. The meeting was closed on 15 July 2011 at 21.44.
