ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Silva Črnugelj, Mrs Renata Brunskole by 20:00, Mr Zmigo Jelinčič Tribali from 14:00 on, Mr Tadej Slapnik, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar and Mr Iztok Podkrižnik. I welcome everyone here. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. We continue to discuss Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Madam Guardian of Human Rights with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, good morning! I would like to express great dissatisfaction that yesterday, due to the complications of agenda items and the adoption of the agenda, we have to break this point because it will probably take some time for us to be back in the fullness of the issue, which is extremely topical and should be dealt with with with with with with with the greatest responsibility. I'll try to make a contribution with a few thoughts. First of all, thank you to the Ombudsman and his colleagues for an extremely exact, comprehensive, concrete, guidance report that points to their work; it shows that the system of the Ombudsman in our system has been intercepted by both citizens and citizens and, as things show, by those who should respond to warnings about inappropriate conduct. I think that we must continue to do so and contribute as much as possible in the National Assembly. I believe that in recent years we have increased the importance of addressing this report, which I am pleased, and that the results are also related. It seems to me extremely understandable that the Ombudsman in her report has given special attention to issues of social, socio-economic rights, more than those of classical human rights, which is understandable in the light of the situation in society that, despite all the efforts of the Government, there is an increasing proportion of those at the border of normal life, that there are increasing numbers of those who have problems with employment and so on, and I think that it is right to pay due attention to these issues, because these are fundamental issues on which the existence of people depends. However, I think it is very good that, in addition, so at least I understand, the Ombudsman warned for the first time that it is not only intended to assess specific problems, it is not only about whether the government works well, whether the ministries are doing well, or the judiciary, or the police and so on, but about whether the National Assembly is doing well. Because the content, the appropriate coherence, the specificity of the laws that we adopt, is what in many ways makes it conditional on the realization of human rights in practice. There are two basics for their realization. First, we have an inadequate law, which, despite the warnings of the year and year, we do not change or coordinate or have poor implementation. In the second case, it is the responsibility of the executive authorities, in particular the control function of the National Assembly, but mainly of the executive bodies. But in the first case, it's our job. Personally, I must say that it would be right to find out that, even with regard to the content of the laws, we are not entirely satisfied, that many tell us that laws have never been so opaque and so difficult to implement, because we have similar things regulated in different regulations, and that there is probably something to do with the scope of the amendments and additions that the National Assembly adopts each year and the procedures by which it adopts them. These are such that many times they do not give us much choice, because most of the procedures are not regular, but are necessary and shorter procedures. I therefore hope that the new National Assembly, which will soon be elected, will pay more attention to this issue in accordance with the Legislative Policy Resolution we have adopted. And there is some hope that this will also contribute to a more effective resolution of the problems that the guardian is alerting to. Two more things I'd like to talk to you about. I'm glad there's less judicial backlogs. I am pleased that some things are changing slowly in the field of justice as well. Of course, I am not satisfied, but I consider this to be a real problem, that there are increasing complaints about the quality of decisions, not just about delays and procedures. But I would like to reiterate one of my pains, which I explain many times when we talk about it. It's not good that politics puts pressure on justice. It's not good. And politics does, sometimes in principle procedures it is justified when it comes to specific cases, but that is not good. And in these four years, we have had practice, when we have also put on the proposals of Members to deal with living cases that have not yet been concluded and demanded that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, accept their views. I don't think that's a good thing, and we shouldn't make that decision in the future. And another, perhaps in the form of a marginal question in this regard. This is how we like to say that Slovenia no longer has a rule of law and that we have two different legal systems for different people. I'd like to be precise. The legal system is one, there is only one, it is all the same, and the question is whether it is applied to all equally. And here's the criticism and the warning that it's not being applied for all the same. That inequality is influenced by family ties, lobbies, colleges, the bad work of individuals, even if you want to, bribery and so on. All of this is true, but it is true for a specific situation, but not for creating an atmosphere, as if we are subject to two legal systems, one designed for a small group of privileged and the other for most people. And the last. I am pleased that we have also done two things this year that the guardian has often warned us about. On 1 February 2011 we adopted the Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation of the national communities of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. A very principled document, but a document that shows that Slovenia will also have to deal more intensively with this issue, so I expect the new National Assembly and Government to do so, but not that it will die. The second applies to the law on deleted persons. And thirdly, I would be happy if in this direction the problems were solved, more so with regard to tenants in denationalized apartments, where the Government does not have particularly open ears to solve these problems, and I hope that the law that we have at this meeting will also contribute to this, and I hope that it will be adopted, which will give the same rights that tenants in denationalized apartments, including housewives, sometimes have. Madam Guardian, thank you and continue to work successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Mr Miro Petek has the floor and Mr Franz Bogovic is preparing himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. This year's report by the Ombudsman or her office is very extensive, precise report and I am pleased that the Ombudsman has also seen some problems that have not been addressed so far in this report. Here I would mention the area of environmental pollution. The Ombudsman detected the problem of pollution in the Mežiški valley and in this report stated that the annual programme for improving the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley for 2010 was adopted only in July 2010 and the funds for the rehabilitation of this environment were severely reduced. This means formally blocking the programme, as the planned activities could not be carried out. It is also difficult to understand how the state can save the upper Mežiški valley while allowing additional environmental burdens and so on. In short, the Ombudsman noticed what we were discussing here in the National Assembly when we proposed to adopt the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley, because this rehabilitation, whose framework is the Government's decree, is simply stopping, and the Upper Mežiški Valley in the last two years, instead of two million, has received a million 200 000 euros, that is, 800 000 euros less. Here goes the Ombudsman's confession, but I also know from the field that she talked a lot to the people who live in this busy environment in the upper Mežiški valley. In the area of the environment, it is also interesting to note her conclusion on the storage of tyres in Dravska Field in the municipality of Kidričevo. As we know, it was there in 2008 for a fire at the tire depot. This matter was quite a public matter and, of course, recovery did not take place as it should. The investor carried out the remediation of the gramogram, contrary to the building permit, as the guardian found. See, this investor, this is Albin Promotion, and he continues to receive grants from the Republic of Slovenia. Recently, this investor, Albin Promotion, d.o.o., who clearly does not respect the laws we make in the National Assembly, or for another area, received €110,000 from the Fisheries Fund, which was divided into €14.6 million. We can see a list of how interesting money is being shared from this pond fund to interesting people. Our former colleague, Darinka Antavaljak, received almost 200 000 Euros of grants for her company Darinka Antavaljak s. p. for the renovation of a house, as much as the Member receives in the entire mandate. However, this is not a question of the Ombudsman. It's a question of how this state money is distributed, to whom, by what criteria, and who are the people on the committee sharing that money. I'd stop at the chapter on child sexual abuse. You have also given appropriate attention to this, but of course the question is how successful you have been in doing so. I think that this sentence of yours that you've written down is that our legislation and many procedures are by no means acceptable to the child as a victim. I want to know what to do in this area. Mr Dolčič, your right-hand man, has recently made it clear and loudly that in the case of the Coroque girl the police and the prosecution have not done enough or have made many mistakes in these proceedings. I miss it here, but if you can answer what we need to do in the National Assembly, so that it doesn't happen or that it would be as little as possible. When we ask the Minister of Justice, who is now also acting as Minister of the Interior, whether the police and the judiciary in this place have done enough, he says that yes, they have worked by law, they have done the best, but we see that the problem remains. So, what do you do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Only Bevk has the word. [[No, no, ……]] Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor and Mr Bogdan Barovic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to all the government's representatives and the guardians with her team! In each country, the Ombudsman plays an important role and builds his image and reputation with his work, and after a few years of work, this should be an undistorted mirror of society, a warning finger that burns in every irregularity, that is, every violation of human rights, and ultimately a rock on which a certain society stands firmly. For the guardian, I find that many tasks are performed and certainly do better than her predecessor. We probably didn't hear anything as humiliating about her as her predecessor said it was a "smoker smoke". We've never heard of her before, and that's to say hello. I certainly welcome her commitment to the environment, which has been very neglected so far. The annual special meeting, which presents the achievements or shortcomings that are still present in the environment, is certainly welcome. Here, it well fulfils the task imposed by the Aarhus Convention, by which residents must be included in any intervention in nature and may express their doubts and perhaps express their doubts. Perhaps I would like to warn you to take a closer look around. In the vicinity of Škofje Loke is the Urinian Mine Žirovski vrh in closing and despite extensive construction work and that much work has been done on it, still one of the barren areas is not saved because it is on the slippery terrain and there are always cracks. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space does not find listening and, above all, it does not find financial and some plans to remedy and how to compensate the damage to the local community. I hope that this problem will also be buried by the Ombudsman with her co-workers, and perhaps in a future report this point will be further processed or appropriate measures will be taken. Then I'd stick around for the hate speech. For the following reports, the matter is still being collected. In some cases, it has taken action, but in some cases there is something else to be done. Perhaps it would point to the broadcast of the Pink Channel, which in some quasi humorous style broadcasts Tito and Draga, in which someone plays Tito and someone plays the character Draža Mihajlović, who is almost authentic to the original and may be wearing some nostalgia after some of the past times. It wouldn't be very humorous for me to watch a lot of wartime shows where Hitler or similar dictators would perform. Of course, the second context of Chaplin’s film The Great Dictator, which was created before the war, and probably after the war, would not have been a very good humor at the expense of the Nazis. Of course, in this quasi, humorous broadcast is primarily on the account of Croatia, but tomorrow it may be on the account of Slovenia or another nation in the field of the former Yugoslavia. The jokes are distasteful, compared to the monkey and so on. In an enemy speech, we cannot pass our colleague Grims when his children and his family were identified as Goebbels' family. I'm asking myself if I did the right thing by putting on the website a nice Sunday trip when we met Grims' family in Blegos. Now I don't know if my wife took pictures of us together as a pleasant company with Goebbels' children or whether they were Grims' children. What am I trying to say? That Grims' children also have the right to go where their parents take them, whether it's a nice Sunday trip or it's a Mass on the biggest church holiday, and it's his business to raise his children. Of course, there is much more to hate speech, and it is very difficult to set a separation or a limit to where something is funny and where the offensive content begins. Finally, I would stop at violations of rights, not only of workers and not only of those from Bosnia and Kosovo in construction, but also of other violations of rights. The worst part is that there's a mobile and pressure on the workers, and they don't hope to report it. In the sky, however, the injustices that have occurred to workers from Bosnia and Kosovo, when even humanitarian aid in some strange waters has disappeared for them. It is free after the Minister has signed an agreement, and it is in the field of labour law that the recognition of rights is granted if it is not carried out on the ground. What else would you say? I certainly want the Ombudsman to continue to work successfully. Every success of it helps to build the image of our country or to enforce human rights or to prevent human rights violations from being eliminated in the Cali. The more successful it will work, the more grateful we will be to Slovenia and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor and Mr Jožef Jerovšek should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Guardian! Your reports are 400 pages long, which shows that the human rights situation in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to be a democratic and legal country, is very bad. Each of us can truthfully say that the entire report on 400 pages could not read, but I believe that many have taken time and read what they think you are right about. And I must say, you're very right. For 11 years I have been in this National Assembly, and every year I have listened to the reports of the Ombudsmans, and there have been many differences between these reports, with most of them covered in your report, most of the areas and your findings of the good and the bad, regardless of who did them. And your report is fair to my personal judgment. Let me tell you that I returned from the session of the international parliamentary union at night, where I am also a member of the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights of Members of the Council among five members from around the world. Let me tell you that I am ashamed that, until yesterday, Slovenia was seen as the only European country among the 39 members of the human rights violators. Romania joined her. Let me tell you that this has been determined by members – 5 regular and 5 alternate members from around the world – that something in Slovenia is wrong. But I'm not gonna talk about it. All I'm saying is that I was there and I'm honestly ashamed of myself. Your report in point 2.3. The limitation of personal freedom is partly linked to this. He's talking about detainees, convicts on prison terms. It's well written, but not enough, because of course you can't do everything. Your report on justice is extensive, but not extensive. Once again, I know you can't do everything. If I touch only point 2.4.3, the confidentiality of the indictment must be ensured until the accused is informed of it. Slovenia is the only country where all journalists are already informed in advance before anyone is even imprisoned. Everyone's waiting and painting. Not locked up, just found in some crime. This is an exemplar between 39 countries, I will say once again, Congo, Kinshasa, Rwanda, Togo and then Slovenia. Consistency in the motion in question despite the grounds for the complaint. That's a great report. Once again, I'm afraid it's too large. And I'm going back to Slovenia. Point 2.10 Working relationships. What help are your warning and your findings in point 2.10.3 Non-payment of social security contributions and 2.10.5 Torture, harassment and bullying in the workplace? They're findings. Will there also be action based on your findings? That's what I'm asking those people who are probably not in charge here. You're not the one who's gonna, you're the one who's pointing this out. Nothing happened. We have a wonderful report, an honest report that I will confirm and agree with. But what helps us if there are no measures? Your report in point 2.14 Unemployment. I mean, it's written on four pages, it would have earned an extra 100. I say again, I know you can't do this. And what will come today, tomorrow, in the coming days to protect children's rights, when some will use them in political propaganda just like before. About the rights of children as described in point 2.15.5 Protecting children from sexual violence. Our client warned of this for 11 years. We fought for 11 years. The president of our party, Jelinčič, received a reminder and was even expelled from the National Assembly because he warned of this. You warn, fair and concrete. Who did something and who's gonna do something?Oh, my God! Thanks for the heads-up. Each house should receive and read this and, above all, the competent ministry. And in the end. I am involved in human rights, not just Members, I have had this honour that I could also say some things to the invitation of the Serbian Assembly there, and I have had the honour to be actively involved in the field of trafficking in human beings, modern-day slavery. Unfortunately, this is the last information I have because I have a personal permanent relationship, because it bothers me that Slovenia is not only a transit country, but a country that is the goal of this trafficking in human beings. With children, with sale of children, with sexual services, with imports of underage girls from Moldova, Ukraine, Romania. I've got all the information. And we're not just a transit country, we're a target country. The 400 pages of the report are worth giving to all, and even more to those responsible for it have done nothing in the hope that those who will do something about it. For the first time in 11 years, I must tell you, Madam Guardian, that I am pleased with this report and that it is honest, honest and open. I mean, you can't agree with everything, but you've basically pointed out all the mistakes. I only hope that the warning written here will fall to fertile ground and something will start to work against what you wrote down. This is the purpose of this report, not that all the smart ones talk about it here and we are discussing and looking for some mistakes. And that Slovenia will be deleted from the names of the countries on which the international parliamentary union must speak. I haven't mentioned the names, and I won't, but I hope it never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian and others present in the Chamber! As every year we consider the Ombudsman's report, your report, and I think this report is the most extensive. This is good at the same time, but it also has a few limitations, because I would like to plead this for the future. Inevitably, over all dimensions, the report must not be circulated because it loses its basic meaning, as so many fewer people look at such a report. So some marginal issues need to be eliminated, but this is actually a problem at the time of computers, when everything is in the computer, only new content is added from year to year. At the same time, this report points to careful, meticulous work, but I would also touch myself, like my predecessors, on some matters. The ethics of the public word in relation to human dignity, which was actually reconfirmed by the Constitutional Court. I think your work in the future will be easier, because you have a disgrace, you have a legal act that affirms human dignity, and of course it says that because of human dignity there is nothing you can do, despite the powerful of today. That the limits called human dignity are clearly enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution and must be respected. Regarding the ethics of the public word and what has become a hate speech with us, I am actually disappointed because last year there has been a great deal of impatience in this Chamber, and this time there has been a number of rulings. In the entire term. I am not saying that there may have been times when positions have been reversed, but at the time, of course, the competent authorities have reacted extremely strongly if anyone has forgotten, I remember some cases. However, when we experienced in this mandate that the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest government party attacked Ambassador Gorenak for Slovenian Jugashvili, Stalin, the criminal, there was nothing. This is an outrageous impatience and insult that should go to your ears, but I have not observed it, although we have warned, protested inside the house, and, of course, once again, I say, you are also bound by the latest decision to respect the human dignity of such things. Second. Now the former MP has personally attacked me for his cap in a Nazi camp. The coalition has been very supportive and these things go away. And if there is such an impatient and exclusive spread in this house, then of course we cannot be surprised that these phenomena are also large in society, for some believe that this is justified, allowed. My colleague has already talked about the advertising of symbols that are symbols of intolerance, totalitarianism of all kinds, and I think that, after this decision of the Constitutional Court, we are also obliged to have anyone say anything positive about anything. The other thing that I think has to do with human dignity is your extensive chapter on justice. When I look at the summaries and suggestions, what you recommend, I'm actually surprised that, in addition to what you're proposing, you're proposing amendments to the Penal Code, which will incriminate abusive and psychologically violent behaviour. [[stalking]] , which I fully agree with, and now at today's meeting for this point we will address the amendments to the Penal Code, and I will go once again to see how the Government or Minister Zalar has listened to you, but I am surprised that there is nothing between your recommendations that would somehow give hope to the people who have suffered in this country so much that they have become literally slaves who have not received the wages paid. Because in this country there has been a robbery of state property through banks and some programmes such as highways and so on, and so many people have come to the brink of survival. Look, I don't know if you, Madam Guardian, saw Dr. Urban Vehovar's statement on the Studio show at 5 p.m. when he said that what's happening in our banks is called Taiwan's credits and all that, and as a result, recapitalisation, crime. I think it's right for a sociologist to put it that way. And if there's been a crime, they're also perpetrators. And, of course, perpetrators should also be criminalized and persecuted. And we have experienced by the Government now in the Penal Code of the Blaze Gegens, which incriminates damage to social property for a crime there for up to five years. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's a state betrayal, an attack on independence and an attack on the country. For article 350 of the present Penal Code states that whoever, by his conduct, puts the state in a subordinate position against other countries, has attacked the independence of the state and is punished. It's only one step worse than the great treachery of the country. As a result, we propose in the new criminal code an attack on the financial system of the State, the sovereignty of the State and these cases is enormous in our financial system. I don't know how it's gonna be individualized, but that's what happened. That's what happened. And I expect public support at this meeting to incriminate this, Madam Guardian. Because we are going to discuss this amendment today. Of course, as a result of what happened in the financial field, the human dignity of ten and a hundred thousand Slovenians and against it in the world are being demonstrated by the October 15th movement. Against financial greed. And, Madam Guardian, there has been another attack on human dignity. I read that he went to those who demonstrate and demonstrated on Saturday for a just purpose, even in Slovenia at three places to speak the Ljubljana mayor, who is synonymous with financial greed and business greed, but we know what terrible commission Alenka Jeraj has already found out what is being done, and because of this greed suffers thousands of Slovenians. I think that this cynicism, that such a person goes to speak to those who strike for a positive purpose, would require your reaction, because it is clear to you, however, that the synonym of financial greed cannot address those who are fighting financial greed. So there are a lot of things that need to be done. Madam Guardian, I hope that you will be positively defined on these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Mr. Croat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! Every year, we are considering the Ombudsman's report and I find that this material is more extensive and better prepared each year as well. And I must say, when I read this 2010 annual report, which has only been one year away from when these actual problems have also been happening, and I believe that at that time some things have already changed or improved, in particular in the area that I want to highlight, that is, in the areas of work, family, social affairs, but when we compare the 2009 and 2010 reports, we can find that the proposals from year to year are repeating that the problems are repeating that poverty is increasing, that unemployment is increasing and still could be listed, particularly in this area that I want to talk about. And what can we as Members do to improve this situation? We have scissors and linen in our hands. It is the National Assembly that must adopt legislation to which the Ombudsman draws attention. I would expect this time, in the last three years of this government, greater engagement by the government, perhaps greater engagement by Parliament, all of us. Not just coalitions, and us. This was also pointed out by the Ombudsman in her introduction when she said that we would expect Members to react more than once and also repeatedly to highlight these topics that actually concern people who are in distress and who face the problems described. I would like to say a little more about work, family, social affairs and people with disabilities, which is quite a few things described in this report. If I only touch the working relationship. I thought it was right for us to talk here also about very specific matters, about the findings that the Ombudsman has written in this report. In my presentation of the views of the groups of Members, I noticed that there was very flat-rate talk on all matters. But I would like to touch some very specific things because I think this is very important and the only possibility is here in Parliament that we are also talking about these things. The Ombudsman states in this report that key issues of application can be identified in areas such as torture at work, non-payment of wages, non-payment of social security contributions, illegal termination of employment contracts and non-security and health at work. If we draw the line below all these conclusions, we can say that there is indeed something very wrong in our country if only in the field of labour relations all of this is determined. Then it continues to be even more concrete. It says that there is a need to regulate the vague delimitations and responsibilities between the Labour Inspectorate, the Public Administration Inspectorate and the Defence Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia against the alleged suffering of employees at the Ministry of Defence. This is also an issue that needs to be dealt with in concrete terms. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia must harmonise the practice of complaints against decisions and act in a uniform manner with regard to the retention of the effect of extraordinary termination under the Labour Relations Act. A very specific conclusion, a very specific appeal. Inspection services need to be strengthened. In the case of companies to which the State has granted a suspension of the payment of contributions to the PPIZ, the State should cover unpaid contributions to pension and disability insurance. This is a very concrete thing to do, but we didn't. The government must take immediate measures to enable employers to pay their social security contributions. Well, obviously that's what's going on. Payment of the bilingual allowance should be arranged for all workers working in official bilingual areas and not only for certain groups. And so on. As regards pension and disability insurance, the Ombudsman notes that the number of cases dealt with in this area has decreased compared to 2009 and this is positive. And it is also right that we say things that have actually improved out loud. However, the Ombudsman still proposes the following measures: The Government must ensure that the competent national authorities prepare in due time all the professional grounds for adopting amendments to the rules required by the decisions of the Constitutional Court; the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia shall provide adequate additional training to members of its authorities who decide on the rights of pension and disability insurance. And so on. In social matters too, certain areas are very specifically exposed. It is imperative to amend the legal provision sanctioning the beneficiary of exceptional financial social assistance in cases where he fails to provide evidence of the intentional use of funds in due time. In the event of a delay, social assistance does not belong to him for 18 months, although in fact he does not have the means to survive. That's the guardian's recommendation. If I keep going to social work centers. They must issue to each beneficiary a certificate of the submission of evidence for the exercise of social security rights in order to reduce the possibility of unintentional mistakes by beneficiaries and increase legal certainty in the proceedings. That's the problem. I also faced this in my own office when someone explained these things to me. The possibility of granting social assistance should also be provided in electronic form. At this time in which we live, this is a logical consequence. And so on. As far as unemployment is concerned, there have been a few fewer initiatives in this area, but there are still recommendations. Reduction of waiting periods for inclusion in the work rehabilitation programme. Even at the time when there's really a lot of unemployed people. Increasing the number of public works through a public works programme that will take account of both the needs of the contractor and the unemployed. And so on. Also in the field of the protection of children's rights, as already discussed by colleague Friday, there are simply a few things the Ombudsman proposes. It is necessary to improve the treatment of children who need pedoshiatric treatment in protected wards. It is proposed to re-establish specialised family courts. It is necessary to amend the law governing the testimony of a child as a privileged witness, taking into account whether the child is a victim and the type of criminal offence in which he is required to testify. In any case, the court must not force the child to testify. This is now possible if a child is under the age of 15 and so requires the accused himself. And so on. So, I wanted to say some very specific things recommended by the guardian, and I think this is where these things need to be talked about. See, in the introduction, when the Ombudsman spoke about surveillance and notes that every year in the field of human rights, this is becoming a matter of control. Now it goes on to say, "Supervision doesn't work, it works bad and it's not effective." This is recorded in the report itself. The lack of inspectors is, therefore, the one that helps. I also find that there are more and more anonymous reports. More and more anonymous questions are also raised by the Ombudsman, as this is the result of this annual report. I also note that there is simply confusion and fear of the future among people. But here we all have to stop and imagine. There will be a need to respond, even in these most exposed areas. Finally, perhaps only a finding by the Deputy Ombudsman on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs that Slovenia is no longer a legal and social state. That was very explicit and I was afraid of that and I can see that this is all about the policy that is being implemented right now. I am alone in the report that we have received, which we could also compare with others from previous years, I have no comments, I thank you for having prepared it qualitatively, but I believe or hope that in the coming years it will be thinner and not thicker as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! First of all, thanks to the Ombudsman for the obvious progress in the reports. As the guardian, I see for myself that the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations remain largely without the appropriate measures of those who should be implemented. In the report, I miss a review of the Ombudsman's outstanding proposals and recommendations, so I hope that the human resources and financial obstacles that this report is intended to create will be removed in the future. I would like to draw my own attention to the areas of human rights violations affecting human health, social security and dignity, and thus directly affect people's lives. It is a violation of the rights of employment to a healthy and secure working environment. Slovenia is still at the European Summit after the number of accidents. Occupational diseases for sick workers in Slovenia are still not recognised. Employers who produce disabled persons are not penalized with anything. The competent ministries and controls have not been functioning properly for 20 years. The non-payment of salaries and contributions, although much has been written about it and although it is a crime, is still not subject to sanctions. The problem I highlighted was presented as a hot bone by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Economy. The government has also set up an interdepartmental commission to solve this problem. The committee was referred to by the competent ministers every time I asked them when they would solve the problems of non-payment of salaries and contributions. Neither the Commission nor the ministers have yet taken the necessary steps to address the problem. Areas that should also be at the forefront of the Ombudsman's recommendations include violations of the rights of the population to a healthy natural environment, access to treatment and social security. Part of the text contains this particular subject. Capital continues to poison our natural environment and adversely affect the health of children as well as adults. Children and the elderly are exposed to excessive concentrations of lead, dust particles and other harmful substances. Measurements are carried out to prove this, but no one is responsible for the damage to the health of the population and almost nothing changes. The White Paper of the European Union on Health, the Guidelines of the World Health Organisation and the Charter with which Slovenia has committed itself to the creation of universal health care is not being implemented. If it were, it would be for every citizen to have access to treatment from public funds, irrespective of his ability to pay contributions. If Members sitting on the Health Committee were to support my recent proposal to delete Article 78a of the Health and Health Insurance Act, they would not. Nor are the Members of both parties who carry the word'social' in the title. This article abolishes the right to treatment, except for emergency, self-employed entrepreneurs, their family members and their children who are insured by them, even though they are not able to pay health care contributions for justified reasons. Thus, every day around 8 000 citizens, including children, pregnant women and the elderly, remain without the right to receive treatment from public funds, except for emergency treatment. In Slovenia, access to treatment from public funds is denied to many others, the poorest groups of the population. Among them are many older people, people with low pensions and salaries, and single women who cannot afford supplementary insurance. Instead of a system of health and related social security measures, a member of the Health Committee offered to treat the poor in voluntary clinics, charity that we had given up universal health insurance years ago. I wonder who in this country has given up universal access to treatment. Most citizens certainly don't! I therefore hope that, in the future, there will also be a requirement for universal health care in the report of the Ombudsman between the amendments and the end of Article 78a of the Health and Health Insurance Act. I'll back up the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Silvan Majhenič, to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Guardian, Minister! It all revolves around non-compliance with laws, which certainly do not say that workers are not paid wages, that they are not paid contributions to the pension register, that they are cheated when they receive the payment sheet that is written on it for the contributions paid but are not paid. In short, there is a lack of respect for laws that are good, but no one is sanctioned for non-compliance, which the guardian also sees in her report. We all know mistakes and offer solutions, but, as we can see, those who have so far been responsible for leading the country have refused to listen and have stubbornly insisted on the solutions that have led the countries into an ever-increasing misery. This is also explained in the Ombudsman's report in a way through various topics. In all the topics that we are discussing in the National Assembly, we are in some way touching on human rights, and it would be expected that the themes will be harmonised in the National Assembly and not in the referendums. Several of the laws that went to the referendum were mostly good, but there is always some article that was not acceptable to the majority and the law fell at the referendum. This, of course, is human rights. This is a pension reform that lacked a small amount of coordination with the social partners and would be acceptable to everyone. People rejected the law. This is the case in the small work law, where we could exclude student work and black work, where only neighbourhood aid was disruptive. And who's to blame now? In the Slovenian National Party, we are sure that the coalition and those who participated in the adoption of laws that the nation has rejected. In the National Assembly, hate speech is very much mentioned. At the same time, however, one forgets why an inappropriate sentence was uttered. Because if he says otherwise, you're all gonna have to question him. This is mainly the case when it comes to the places and frauds of various presidents of administrations, supervisory councils, harmful management acquisitions, when companies, banks, the country are exhausted in an unacceptable way when they have failed to detect, prosecute and prosecute. And when you're threatened by people who go to the streets, don't worry about anyone. I have not heard this before to go to the streets because a member of the National Assembly said that those who, because of their own interests, would have to work for thousands of workers and the misery of their family members. No one should have mentioned these. But you are right to pursue the one who warns against irregularities. I believe that the Ombudsman is critical to the hate speech, but it is only right that, as an expert in this field, she should assess the matter objectively and not only on the proposal of the critics from the options that are close to her. We're all bloody under the skin, and many times someone says something strong that I don't personally use, and nothing happens. For it is easier to judge others than yourself, and to turn them away with criticism from one another. In the report, you wrote a criticism of putting a convict in a special area for 12 hours for destroying inventory, threatening workers and convicts. ZIKS is clear, but if it does not, then the procedure will be repeated. That's probably what everyone in the department knows. Despite a conversation with the chief of staff and psychiatrists, the convict did not stop with a view to violating the household order. The report states that this is a violation of ZIKS and that the interview should be repeated. What if it doesn't work? Here I would expect you to offer a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Get ready, ma'am. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Guardian, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I also believe that this report is good for the Ombudsman. Unfortunately, I have the feeling that this report will be reviewed once again, because it is so in the rules of the game that this report must be considered by the National Assembly, that we will all be happy that this formality will be completed as soon as possible and that it will then run as before. I have a feeling that these reports are more or less intended by the guardians themselves. That it is merely a formality that has no effect on any area which is in some way covered by this report. I would say that this report is a mirror of our rule of law or, if you like, a mirror of our social system. Now we can all put our heads in the sand, as they call it, and wait for this to pass quickly, or really think about it and see if it's possible to change anything in the future. I think it's the last one, but it has to be political will. I would focus mainly on two or three points in this report, which I think is very good. Point 2.10 Working relationships where you write a lot about events that we've all witnessed on TV screens. The stories were happening as much as some sort of reality show. Since the construction events, particularly those related to our domestics, our employees, i.e. citizens and citizens of Slovenia, as well as those workers coming from other countries, in particular from the countries of the Western Balkans, which have been particularly exposed here. And man got the feeling that our system, not just the rule of law, but the entire system of competent authorities simply had no answers, had no solution. The man got the feeling that this is not happening in Slovenia, but that this is happening in another country, and that we are monitoring the mute and cross our hands and we are waiting for the story to end. At the same time, our main actors laughed on TV screens. And nothing happened again. In the meantime, there may have been some spectacular television crime investigation, perhaps even some criminal complaint, perhaps even more at that time, I think, even too many, 20, 30 criminal charges. But that's where things are. Here things stop, activities practically fall to nothing, and the epilogue of such matters is not found. Time is running out and actors are walking around beautiful Slovenia and laughing at us in a mustache. These are stories that create doubts in people that our judicial system or the rule of law, as they would call it, works at all. We all get the feeling that justice is not, that justice is not, and then all of this is clearly reflected in all other segments of the country. It's also an interesting story about the inspectorate. At the time of these tragic events, if I say so myself, in construction, I have repeatedly tried to encourage something to move at the Labour Inspectorate. Thank God it was then that the Chief Inspector was replaced, but I think it's too late. I also got a feeling from my previous experience that this inspector in this country was primarily responsible for the fact that he was in charge of employees, including those who were not the most important, seeking out whether they had helmets on their heads, but not saving or not trying to save – it is easier to say that there is no legal basis and that I am not responsible for this – so he did not go into stories that were in the sky screeching because there were eccentric violations of labour law and anything else. And of course, the simplest thing is to say: I'm not from here, I don't know anything, I'm not competent. By the way, I don't think there are any inspections in this country that work as they should. They deal with minor cases that are irrelevant, although they should, of course, be dealt with, but before these minor cases, the real cases should be dealt with. I'm afraid they don't do that. My assessment is that the organisation of inspections in Slovenia will also need to be given a little more attention in the coming mandate. According to my assessment, they need to be combined under one cap, without all this being scattered around, we have a whole bunch of chief inspectors, and things aren't working out. However, the second area, which is very closely related to this area that I was talking about, is the area 2.4 Justice, which talks about enforcement, talks about insolvency proceedings and so on, where, of course, the key criticism flies back to the rule of law, to justice, to slow procedures, to stall, in short, not to be resolved as the economists would expect. One would expect that all these obvious things, which we all know, we are all aware that things are not going to work out, here in the National Assembly, they would answer these questions. There were a few of them. The assessment is, of course, subjective-objective as to how these measures work, but I believe that more could be done, and in particular more ministries should do so than that. We have put in a few cases ourselves, just recently, which are the answer to these problems that I'm talking about. At this session, we will discuss in the third reading the Law on Economic Companies, which is precisely the result of these events, when some of the managers, owners and so on brought their stories to the place, to the margins, to the workers, to the end and, of course, to establish new companies, new companies, without being treated for anything. Now, post-festum, it's a whole hall. A group of supervisors, a group of managers, and I don't know who all of them are, they're all jumping into the air, it's unconstitutional, and I don't know what it's all about. The question is, do we want to make a difference in this country? Do we want to make a difference in this country? And my assessment is yes. Also on the basis of this Ombudsman's report, the National Assembly should respond in particular to these systemic problems that it draws attention to. Most of them don't want me to say everything, comments or warnings from this report fly right to the legal state. Either way, of course, we are now talking about the entire justice system. Last week we listened and, of course, absolutely, without further agreeing that we have to be careful, careful about how we cultivate this attitude towards the judiciary, to the prosecution and so on, to protect this independence and everything. Of course, I absolutely agree with that, and it should be, but if so many things are wrong and if so many things are wrong, then it is probably this house that is responsible or responsible for making a difference. But if there is no change, there will be no change. There's no change, it's called. While I am confident that the debate that has already been in the air and has been reopened over and over again, that in this society, however, we will have to really start talking about the permanent mandate of judges and probably this will also be achieved – not that politics will interfere with an independent judiciary, absolutely not, I am absolutely against – but that in this way we will force the internal structure to be more effective, to be more professional, the system itself, like some other cases, let's say higher education, where professors also have some obligation to advance from day to day to day better. This must also be achieved in the judiciary, the prosecution and so on, that these reports will be cheaper in the coming years than they are now to have fewer sides. This will then also reflect that the rule of law in this country is working better. And one more thing. Under the human rights code. Not long ago, we were watching on television the arrest of a group – because I don't know what to call them – of people who were dealing more than obviously with white goods, as they say, with people. I was very careful, and I wanted to see these people on these videos, on this TV show, to see one of these people, and they were so protected with tapes, with security guards, with cops, and I don't know what it was that there was simply no way to see any of these white goods traders. If I pull a parallel with some other criminal investigations, we can find out that the cameras came practically to the apartments of those who were investigated. To apartments and more. And I don't think it's the rule of law either, or it's proof again that we have two legal states. On the one hand, the crazy protection of those first-class criminals, and on the other hand, the media show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Guardian, Deputy Minister, Madam Secretary-General, Colleagues and colleagues! Fourthly, I am offered an opportunity to discuss the Ombudsman's report for 2010. I will try to avoid those things that I have already talked about on these occasions and to open my eyes to this report, including from this point of view, that our mandate is ending and that some period is running out. I attach to all those who have seen that the Ombudsman's report in the National Assembly is being treated in a very good way. When I came for the MP, we discussed the report three years ago, now just one year ago, it is said for the year ended, and luckily we are considering the 2010 report when our mandate expires, when we can already see what this government thought in the response report about the Ombudsman's recommendations for the past year. I take the report as the most responsible work, because if it did not, then the Law on the Ombudsman would not require the National Assembly to consider the report every year. What seems particularly important to me to emphasise is that in this mandate the Government has taken a step forward in recognizing the importance of this report by allowing the Ombudsman to present the report at the government meeting as well, and I would expect these things to take place in the best possible cooperation. Initiatives have also been taken by the Ombudsman or is an incentive to strengthen dialogue between different institutions, and in this way there will be more of what the Magi has been talking about. Crane was talking about us all being happy when this is over. If I look back on my own, it seems to me that at least in three points the Ombudsman can conclude his work with a sure feeling that with his calls and also repeated recommendations, however, some problems have helped to resolve. This is certainly the adoption of the deleted law, since calvary has been eliminated at least in most of the problem. The issue of violence, including domestic violence, would add to this. Without the Ombudsman's efforts, this area could not be regulated as we did, that is, by enacting the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, unfortunately not at that time with what could also be achieved in order to make the law prohibit the punishment of children, but, as it is said, it is now at least in the family law. The Ombudsman has certainly also signed up to the initiators who have begun to give a more focused attention to torture in the workplace, even now it is the subject of prosecution and is an offence and could add much more, including what I intend to say below. I look at the Ombudsman's reports with two aspects. One is the general problems that the guardian detects in the opening part, the other is the problems that he detects from the individual reports of those who turn to the guardian. There were many topics which the Ombudsman highlighted in the first part of the report. They have changed, but I think that all the main vulnerable groups have received adequate attention or attention, from children, the elderly, the poor, I have already mentioned deleted, but of course the Ombudsman has not avoided all the problems related to the various levels of discrimination. And if I look at human rights from this optics, from which we should actually think at the level of general, then I cannot go beyond gender discrimination, because the fight for equality of women has laid the foundation for the fight for human rights. And at this time, since I've been dealing with reports, I have seen that over time the sensitivity to individual human rights violations has changed and has also been geared towards other problems. If, for example, we have only seen the right to live in a healthy environment as a fundamental human right in the last decade, then I must say that we have not really fulfilled the expectations and promises, since it has already been ensured in the previous mandate that things will be regulated by excessive smell or environmental pollution due to smell. As far as I'm aware, things haven't moved anywhere in this area. D It is good that sensitivity to various aspects of human rights violations changes. But if I am on the issue of equality, even as fundamental rights, and if I can challenge all those who say that we are not a legal country, because at the level of legislation there is no difference in the treatment of both sexes, only in the realization of discrimination will there be discrimination, I would point out that one of the unfulfilled promises is also the one imposed on us by the European Union and the Council of Europe and that we are constantly reminded that we do not have a fully independent institution embedded in the system to monitor the emergence of discrimination in different situations and cases. This has been warned several times. The Ombudsman also points out the absence of a national institution for human rights, but the first step could be such an independent institution, since, for the time being, the advocate or advocate of the principle of equality or the principles of equal treatment is placed in the Office for Equal Opportunities. But I'm not talking about this problem as reckless as it is, but as a matter of fact, it's about purpose. When we discussed the budget rebalancing and some rushed to call for a reduction in the number of offices, the Office for Equal Opportunities was the first one to be abolished by some. In doing so, we have forgotten that we do not already have an independent institution, and that at the same time the European Union requires a single body dealing precisely with the implementation of a policy of equal opportunities for women and men, all policies, and that is why the institution is also established, and here it seems to me that the resisting of the Office of Equal Opportunities, in some countries of the European Union, even the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, is justified because the question is how much more a special institution that performs its function and tasks, if we drown it in a number of others, has done everything where it could again tell you what we have in the system, and the question is justifiable whether it works in the system. It is certainly necessary to say here that we did not do it as we should. If my findings are flying in this case to the executive branch of power, then I will also be able to make some self-reflection and say that the Commission has also not done everything possible for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities here. Just as an example, the 22nd regular meeting with different agenda items was convened, the first item was the analysis of the institutional arrangements for promoting equality and protection against discrimination in the Republic of Slovenia, and then the 1st item was added to this item, since it does not matter which one is, but it seemed to the President more important, and that would not even be a problem if this meeting had never been concluded. And this is exactly the point that we should be talking about what the analysis of the institutional arrangement for promoting equality and protection against discrimination in the Republic of Slovenia shows, and we are never finished, and we are the parent working body for these issues. Not to be forgotten, I find it equally unacceptable that any violation of the dignity of people in the workplace would be unacceptable. A 9th urgent meeting was also convened with a point on whether workers and workers in Slovenia still have such labour and social rights as to ensure by law a certain right to personal dignity and security. The point sounds good, it was placed immediately before the interview with Minister Lukšić because of the sports park Stožica. You will not believe this, and this meeting was closed, and the continuation of this meeting has never been convened. What I'm saying is, if we were really going to do everything we could to protect human rights, to warn people about problems, and if we were to ask ourselves if everyone in their capacity really did everything we could to say, like the ones before the Exchange, we should start with ourselves first, we could find that unfortunately the answer is negative. I want good work for all in the future, and thank you for what I have done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guardian with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would say that I consider the work of the Ombudsman to be extremely important and irreplaceable, especially because it shows a mirror to all those who need to or need to take care of human rights in this country, whether it concerns problems of a systemic nature, that they are revealed through individual cases of loopholes in laws, that they do not work well, that they need to be corrected, or that they are questions of inadequate implementation, of the inadequate functioning of services that ensure that legislation is properly implemented. In this sense, of course, whenever, at least personally, we met with the guardian and co-workers, this meeting was useful to me, and I believe that other representatives of the Government have looked at and looked at the work of the guardian in the same way. Of course, we have not always been of the same opinion on all issues, and one such question is – and I think we have identified it together as an open question – whether it is possible on the basis of individual cases, because it is a system of work of the Ombudsman, then to conclude on a comprehensive picture whether it is possible to generalise on the basis of these cases or not. Together we have found that it will also be necessary to make an effort here in the future, and I think it is the responsibility of everyone who will act in the future in this area – the government, the National Assembly and, of course, the Ombudsman – to go in this direction to solve this problem too. Given that several issues have been raised in the debate and in the report itself, I would have touched those who seem to me to be the hottest and even somewhat suggest what was, in particular, in the field of work and social affairs and what was not. Here, too, I would point out what some indicators show, not just about individual cases, but about the functioning of the system. First, the issue of poverty, repeatedly, was raised by individual debaters and, of course, by the Ombudsman. And it is true that when we look at the area of Slovenia in recent years, the number of unemployed has increased, because of the crisis situation and the number of recipients of monetary social assistance, the instrument that we use when a person does not have other resources to survive. At the same time, however, we must also say that no one who has come into such a situation has been denied this right that everyone has come to this right, that these rights have not been violated or reduced, but even the opposite, that we have increased them in the last period. Today, unemployment benefits are easier for those who are employed for a certain period of time than they used to be. That's a bigger refund. And also, as regards social assistance, that these will come from the implementation of social legislation precisely to those most exposed to poverty, to a greater extent than ever before. These are, say, older women than that group that has always been identified as the one most exposed to poverty. I am therefore surprised by the initiatives to delay the implementation of this legislation, because this is the instrument that will allow these assistance to be extended to this group of people who do not have other resources and are in a difficult situation and thus reduce their problems with regard to the material and social situation. In addition, I must add that Slovenia is still one of the six countries of the European Union, where the risk of poverty is the least. Despite the exacerbation of unemployment issues and the increase in the number of recipients of social assistance, the level of risk of poverty has not increased significantly in times of crisis. However, this must be highlighted and then determined why it is not. Because the social state system works. According to the official data, it is at risk of poverty. If this system didn't work, then we'd really have a lot of problems. In this way, we can say that the system works and that, as it is said, it has this risk of poverty. Slovenia is also at the top of countries with the least income inequality in Europe. We're not talking about property here. And it is precisely because the property of this painting damages that we will also take into account in the social field in the new legislation in the eligibility of social assistance. It has been mentioned that food aid is shared by humanitarian organisations, which is increasingly distributed, but is often overlooked, deliberately or not, by the State of Slovenia, and in particular by the European Union, providing this food from reserves, or by additional European means, and then distributed to humanitarian organisations and distributed to them. Of course, this is not the only resource used by these organisations, but public sector cooperation, countries and, of course, humanitarian organisations in this area must be stressed. Right now, we are working to ensure that the European Union does not reduce this aid to all those countries that have been providing this aid in the last period, of course, Slovenia is also among them, and to provide this aid at least to the same extent, if not to a greater extent. In short, this is a picture that I feel is also needed for the sake of objectivity and that we would not create the impression that everything is wrong, even say and take a full look at this area. The next issue, which has been very exposed, is the situation of the elderly. I've already said that older people are the group that may be most at risk of poverty. Here I would like to say that in the field of institutional protection, the objective that we have set ourselves is to have at least 5% of the population over the age of 65 involved in institutional protection in the country. And this goal has been achieved, it's exceeded. This, of course, does not mean that everyone can immediately get a place in a home where he wants to. At the same time, I must say that in northeastern Slovenia there is a problem of how to fill some homes with sufficient capacity and less interest. From this point of view, this goal has been set quite realistically across the country, but of course there are still problems in two cities, in particular Maribor and Ljubljana, in part also in Gorenjska, where this target or standard of 5% inclusion is not achieved and preparations are under way for the expansion of these capacities. However, Slovenia has fully seen this goal achieved. The second point was that the law on long - term care was not adopted or sent by the Government to the National Assembly, even though we have prepared it. There is also a very clear point to be made here, and one very important issue that is at the same time – and we must not close our eyes before – also the economic issue. We are in a position to move this law forward, but we could only bring it to life if we put more pressure on either the economy or individuals. During the crisis period, the Government has concluded that this is not a good solution because we are trying to maintain other social programmes at at least the same level as they were before. The implementation of such a law would require additional financial resources. And this raises one very important question that I think is not sufficiently reflected, namely that the realization, the application of social rights as human rights is linked to the economic situation in the country and the economic situation of individual groups. If we are looking for more people to go to public work, to other active employment policy programmes, then these programmes should be financed. If we want to have more inspectors or more public servants for certain services, we need to find the means to hire and pay these employees. However, we have also heard a number of times in the National Assembly that this state administration and the public sector are growing too large and thick and so on, and sometimes we have some problems with the consistency of implementation, because we would like to achieve two objectives at the same time, which are somewhat excluded from each other. The third area that you mentioned and was most frequently exposed to is the issue of labour rights and so on. Two groups of employees or workers were primarily at the forefront here. First they're foreign workers and then they're domestic workers. As regards foreign workers, they have been adopted, signed with Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these agreements provide the same position for those workers in Slovenia as domestic workers. The only former Yugoslav Republic, where we do not have this agreement, is Macedonia, which has not responded to our calls as a country. We have repeatedly called on them to accede to the signing of such an agreement. The second instrument to ensure the same position is the Employment of Foreigners Act, which also regulates residences or provides a basis for regulating the living conditions of foreign workers while liberalising the reception regime of foreign workers. Let me just say that by the time this law was passed, more than 70,000 people needed work permits, now, after the adoption of the law, there are about 35,000 of them, because the system has opened up so much, liberalised for the admission of these workers, which we do not send from office to office to arrange these things, and from employer to employer. I must say that the inspection also carried out its work in this regard – although the most critical flight inspection – within the powers it has and in the case of foreign workers, including domestic workers, were given appropriate criminal charges, which must then live to say so and experience their epilogue in the judicial system. However, I agree that there will be inspections, and here I think that this is one of the tasks of the future, it is probably necessary to take a step forward either in terms of linking and combining inspection services and, of course, internal organisations, organisations of work. Here we would add that we have not been able to draw up a law on inspection of work that was also in the plan. However, I do not believe this, and I would like to stress explicitly that the problems in this area are being solved by a larger number of inspectors. We can hire 1,000 more, and if these inspectors do not have the appropriate powers, and this is a matter that needs to be changed in law, if sanctions for offenders are not appropriate and if, of course, the trials do not run fast enough, then the number of inspectors will not help solve these problems. Interesting, I'd like to remind you again of some unconstant thinking, if you'd like. We have met many times in this assembly on the issue of sanctions. As soon as we wanted the system to work better on the basis of greater sanctions, the resistance was very great, if not. Whoever doesn't violate it doesn't get punished. But who, of course, must feel the breach in this form. I think that it is precisely one last meeting of this National Assembly devoted to the issue of the level of sanctions. Here we have a few problems, I think the mental state of this society shows some duality in this sense. We all condemn violators when we have to sanction them properly, and we are running out of will to do so to the end. In short, as far as foreign workers are concerned, their situation is equal to that of domestic workers. However, we cannot be, and I therefore agree with the way in which the situation of domestic workers is regulated, how it is regulated and how the legislation that governs this area is respected. We have passed the Minimum Wage Act and this is overlooked. A decent payment is one of the fundamental human rights, at least that's how I understand it. There was not much debate about this, and this minimum wage increased by more than 22% during the crisis when economists say it should not be at all. We have adopted the Law on Protection and Health at Work, which will begin to be implemented very shortly, which will improve the situation at work as regards health and working conditions. So I'm sure the response to that was. However, we have not been able to reach Parliament or not at the level of the Government with the Working Situation Act, although we have prepared and prepared its amendments, even because the social partners to which we often refer have not shown the will to be prepared to discuss this at all, and it could address the issues of agency workers, which is an open, critical issue regarding the situation of workers, the issue of so-called straw companies and the situation of workers in these companies. We could better regulate the situation of employees for a certain period of time. All these solutions were provided for in the Working Conditions Act. Regrettably, as has been said, it has not been in the mood for this to be resolved, even though this issue is constantly being raised. However, I must say that the issue of paying contributions, which has been raised several times here, has also been regulated in the pension law, which unfortunately has not been adopted. At the same time, I must add that the individual is not deprived of his pension when he receives his pension due to non-payment of his contributions. We have this built into the current system and it does not adequately reflect their damage on this basis. If anyone is injured, it is, of course, a pensioner’s box office, which is damaged on this account, because then he has to solidarityly cover what has not been paid after someone has received a pension. Not if we're talking about individual rights. In the end, if we ask ourselves the question asked by the guardian, are we still a social state? I think that we have preserved it, that we have established it, that this is proved by the data, that this is not denied by individual cases that indicate that people are in a position when they are being violated, that these rights are, of course, to be guaranteed, but that we need to ask ourselves what kind of social state we are and what we will be in the future. And given the fact that the economic crisis continues and will continue for some time, that we will be forced to save even more in the future than we have been before, I think the main question will be how to ensure that we maintain this level of social rights in the coming years, so that, of course, we must strive to resolve these issues wherever they are most eloquently violated, regardless of the situation we have and will have in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the applicant, the Ombudsman of Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We are grateful that we have done great and good work with the preparation of the annual report and that you have also noticed the symbolism of the cover of the annual report. For those of you who will take another look at it, the clock shows five before twelve. I find that cooperation between the Ombudsman and the National Assembly could have been even better. When asking questions to ministers, you can also use cases that we publish on our website. I was surprised, however, that several Members said they would support the annual report. I would like to point out that Members are not talking about the entire annual report, but about recommendations that you can also propose on the basis of presenting the problem. For example, I would like to point out that the problem is not in the number of civil servants, such as inspectors, but in their effectiveness – where standards are laid down for them, how performance is assessed. We are aware that the Ombudsman's annual report is a document as well as a document on those we have prepared, i.e. on my work and on the functioning of my colleagues. The content of the annual report is and will also be linked to initiatives in the future and is a response to them, because this is what the law tells us to do. The annual report of the Ombudsman therefore reflects the initiatives that have been taken, and this is also why we do not deal with the pursuit of economic crime. We write about the pressures of workers, about the problems that individuals face, in several places, and we also talk to the public. The prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, including economic crime, is in the hands of prosecutors, not the guardian. Of course, the Ombudsman has addressed the issue of paying social security contributions, made numerous inquiries, and we have been pointing out this for ten years, since 2001. I am also pleased that Members have recognized our efforts to protect the environment, but not since last year or this year, but to refresh your memory, the first issue on this topic was published in 2007, when I became the Ombudsman. And since then, we have been intensifying work in the field of environmental protection, opening doors to NGOs, meeting with them every month, making an international conference, preparing additional news practically every week, everything in order to ensure that the environment remains as preserved as possible. It has also been mentioned several times that the Ombudsman has not responded sufficiently to the appearance of an enemy speech. You know, we have 42 employees. Despite the video clipping service, which cannot cover everything, although we are actively monitoring the event, we cannot cover all phenomena. Therefore, we will also be grateful to the Members, as well as to all the other people who warn us about these things, and when you warn us, then we will also make inquiries. Always. But we can't do some things you kind of expect of us. Some Members attribute to us incredible power, even executively, what a guardian or guardian should do. Before you give us such insights, of course, you have the right to do so, maybe take a closer look at the law and things will be clearer. I'm not saying this because of avoiding responsibility, but we really can't go any further in certain matters. The reporting of cases is also very delicate. We are bound by the protection of trust in our initiators. And if you want to answer individual cases, you should first get permission from the initiator who entrusted us with the matter. Come in. A lot of times, it sounds like we've been to the guardian's place, but the guardian hasn't done anything. We always warn or ask the initiators first, and then we warn them that they must do everything in their power first. The Ombudsman cannot handle matters in their place, but he can help to obtain the answers or reactions of the State authorities or local authorities responsible. The fact that one of the Members pointed out to the empty hall at the time of the debate on the Ombudsman's annual report, we have also observed this by ourselves, but I am pleased that those who are here speak very strongly, very specifically and I particularly like it when you have dealt with purely concrete matters. Too bad our time is limited. Although some Members may no longer be Members in the next reference, I like the idea that one of your colleagues hopes that you will or will be as good readers as you are now. Now I'm going to get to the specifics. With regard to irregularly reported potential voters in one wardrobe, of course anyone who finds out can submit an application to the administrative unit or to the police. As Mr Svetlik pointed out earlier, the exploitation of workers is an important topic and we must always talk about the exploitation of workers, whether domestic or foreign, and we must also point out this. We also draw attention to the issue of sanctioning hate speech. Why we have decided to propose that we give the possibility of sanction also as an offence. We are aware that it is a crime, but we note that because there is no intermediate option, the real crime, which must also have proven harmful consequences because it does not prove to be, is abandoned, although it is clear that the hate speech has been given or recorded, and that is why this remains in the debate. The second point we were warned about by the LDS is that we are dealing unevenly with the problem of the Roma population. This year, but this will, of course, be in the next report, we have devoted ourselves to this very much, we have sent very broad conclusions to the Government and, of course, we expect a response. This is about the findings that we have gathered from the surrounding population. We are aware that the issue is not one-sided and that it needs to be fully addressed. And that will also be one of the tasks of the future government. Unfortunately, we cannot tell about all the TV shows mentioned here, both those of the conversational type and those on some private televisions that we do not watch most. The Ombudsman has powers of course to public institutions, not to private institutions, but anyone who is disturbed by such a thing seems inappropriate to him has the opportunity to conduct inquiries on the competent authorities and also to make applications for such things. We also heard a comment that we would do more, but we need more money. Of course I didn't say that, but it's something else. The point is that in order to analyse the effectiveness of the Ombudsman's recommendations, we need an expert in the type of metal that the Ombudsman does not have. So we need a trained analyst, or an analyst, so there's not gonna be any resentment that this analysis will be able to do, We also note that policy should support supervisory institutions. And what happened? It was to these institutions that the former government reduced wages and raised some others. This means that experts who are qualified or are trained in these supervisory institutions go to the service of another state authority where they can have a better salary. Take a look at your salaries, pay grade in state institutions, and compare this to my deputy's salary, which has been reduced by four pay grade at the time of pay reform. You'll see how many of those we control have a higher salary than they do. This, of course, weakens the expertise and consequently the authority of the supervisory institutions. The critical comments we have heard and some of them have been made to our work are, of course, meaningful and help us to improve our work. I therefore agree that our reactions may be underfocused. To this end, we are preparing, or only in the last year of my operation, special reports to warn or inform the National Assembly in this way. I also like that you have been critical of your own work, but not because you would like to criticize yourself, but because you have instructed your successors and yourself if you are chosen, where or which direction your action should go, especially in the area of legislative change. I am particularly pleased that so many of you have remembered the rights of children and that so much has been mentioned in Slovenia what we are actually doing in this area or what we have not done. This is such a dark shadow on human rights, which we are fortunately aware of in Slovenia more than they know abroad, where they do not really understand it very well, so we have time, so I say 5 before 12 that we also better regulate this area. Among the individual issues where the issue concerning the environment concerning Rudnik Žirovski summit in closure has been raised, I have already ordered that we deal with the matter on our own initiative, as well as on our own initiative, we deal with quite a few environmental issues. You probably know it's world day against human trafficking. Yesterday was World Day against Poverty. It seems that every day is already such a day that reminds us of a particular type of human rights, and it is therefore right that Members are also dealing with this issue, that you have the opportunity to obtain information on what is going on in this area. The issue of the scope of the Ombudsman's annual report is very interesting. This year, most evaluations focused on the extent to which the report is appropriate, but only some report that it is too extensive. We have already discussed this ourselves, we have already adopted some conclusions on how we will reduce it in the future, but given that most of these direct readers of our report are satisfied to the extent, I can promise above all that we will not increase the volume and we will make one plan in terms of reduction. Of course, I cannot accept the proposal to eliminate marginal matters. What's marginal? Marginally, it may be estimated that only one individual is experiencing a problem. This individual may point to the irregularity of the system. Are we going to say that it's marginal what marginal groups bring? In short, the Ombudsman cannot and during my term of office he will certainly not mark any matter as marginal, and we will do so with everyone we assess as necessary in the annual report. For those of you who have not found anything on this subject, the recommendations concerning exploited workers can be found in section 2.10 of Working Relations, i.e. on page 224. I was very pleased when one of the Members went to specific matters. A very lively debate could develop on such concrete initiatives and issues. In this regard, I would also mention anonymous applications or initiatives. Although they do not need to be dealt with by the Ombudsman under the Rules of Procedure, I say that at least those who are in electronic form we deal with and respond to them, especially if their content is not offensive and full of threats. We also get those. The guardian is also threatened, the guardian is insulted, and that's what's happening in our country. We have met with diametrically opposed opinions on the Ombudsman's annual report and on the Ombudsman's work in general. Some Members, in a minority, at least after the debate, consider that the annual report has no effect; others, again, believe that the Ombudsman's recommendations have a significant impact on the adoption of certain legislation. Each of these opinions can, of course, be confirmed, because in certain cases of impact we cannot detect. However, it is also true that certain recommendations are to be adopted or implemented only after a longer period of time, and I therefore stress that it is so important that an analysis of the Ombudsman's recommendations and the Ombudsman's work is done, best for the whole period. We are not yet such an old institution that this cannot be done. Then, in fact, we could also discuss how the Ombudsman should work in the future in the National Assembly, not on amending the law, but on how to address the recommendations that we adopt. Now I'd like to ask my associates, because I've obviously got a few minutes left if they have anything to say to add. Obviously, we exchanged all the information during the course of the sitting, so I concluded my debate. Once again, thank you to all those who have cooperated with the Ombudsman in this mandate and to all those who will confirm your mandate or come back to the National Assembly, I would like to invite you to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you to the Ombudsman Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik. This concludes the debate. No amendments were tabled on the proposal for a recommendation. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill to take possession of an illegal asset within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of eighty Members and Members with the first-signed France Yuri. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Franc Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is today considering the amended Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. As a candidate, I call on the National Assembly to adopt such an updated text. The updated proposal removes the uncertainties raised so far by the expert discussion. In spite of the Committee's expressed concerns about our Legal and Legislative Service, I am convinced that we have adequately resolved some legal dilemmas by supplementing it. Therefore, I cannot agree with the public concerns expressed that this is mainly a political decision and not a legal one. I am convinced that since such acquired property is illegal at the time of its acquisition, it is not a violation of the alleged innocence or a violation of the constitutional right to property. In my view, the implementation of the law should not lead to further legal complications and even a possible remedy due to alleged unconstitutionality. As a proposal, I would like to point out that this is a proposal for a law that will make an important contribution to strengthening the awareness that Slovenia is a rule of law and that it will prevent any abuse in this area. I therefore expect the National Assembly to adopt it at this meeting and before the completion of its term of office. I believe that Members should no longer afford inter-party accounting or electoral populism at the time of their consideration. We must follow the objective that no one can keep his property if he has acquired it in an illegal way or through illegal activity. This objective can only be achieved if the law is enforceable and effective. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that we have already made its implementation or effectiveness difficult on the Committee by adopting the Supplement to Article 57, which extended the application of the Act throughout the period since 1989 and since the beginning of 1990. The idea of covering the entire period of privatisation is undoubtedly welcome, sympathetic and enforcement issues arise, as the withdrawal is linked to the findings of the financial investigation carried out by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Customs Administration and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering. In the light of the laws on the tax procedure, the prevention of money laundering, customs and archival materials, there is a fear that it will not be effective, as the data collected by the public authorities and the suspects do not have to be stored for that long. The state will then find it difficult for suspects, irrespective of the reverse burden of proof, to mate in a later trial. We would also like to draw attention to the amendments tabled by the SDS Group for second reading in the National Assembly, in particular to the amendment to Article 3 proposing that the amount of EUR 50 000 in which the financial investigation begins be replaced by an amount of EUR 5,000. First of all, the SDS Group would like to point out which catalogue offences are subject to the law and that this amount is not correlated with the weight and adverse social consequences caused by it. This is a criminal offence for which a penalty of five years or more may be imposed. Moreover, such a low amount means that law enforcement authorities will also have to deal with small fish if I use police jargon. Which means they're running out of time and capacity for capitalists. It will achieve exactly the opposite of what the amendment's proponents want. If their amendment is adopted, I hope that the law will put an operational burden on the prosecution and the police, as well as other state authorities involved in the financial investigation, to make it ineffective. Therefore, we will not support this amendment, nor will I support the other amendments of the SDS Group, by which they wish to reduce by law the time and the rest, due to the difficulties that the proposed solutions would cause to enforce this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We considered the proposed law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin on 5 October 2011 to be the working body of the mother. Mr Juri, of course, is the proposer, and before that, the National Assembly held a general hearing at its 30th meeting and decided that the law was suitable for further discussion. The Committee had at its disposal all the necessary documents, such as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Regulation Council and the opinion of the Government and the Council of Justice. The motioners said their views on the committee, that was Mr Juri, and the representatives of the Government also presented their views on the bill as well as on the Law and Law Service. The proposed law was accompanied by amendments from five parliamentary groups citing the opinion of the PSC in explanation, with the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service saying that they were not fully in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. If I am to shorten matters, the Committee has adopted amendments from SD, Res, LDS and unrelated Members together to the twenty-one and the SDS Group of Members, which was also a key amendment to Article 57. And, of course, some of their amendments to Articles 12, 18, 52 and 57. The Committee did not adopt the nine amendments of the SDS Group of Members, and consequently the two amendments of SD, Res, LDS and unrelated Members became irrelevant. We then drafted the law, voted in full on the amendments and the articles and confirmed them. The proposal is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you. I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to Mr Boštjan Škrlec for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u30	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! On the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, the Government gave its opinion at the first reading or general presentation of the opinions held at the July meeting of the National Assembly. At that time, it supported the legitimate and legitimate objective pursued by the proposal of this law, namely, that no one may and cannot retain the assets obtained unlawfully in the event of the establishment of a suspicion of service of one of the catalogue-specific offences. The procedure for the confiscation of assets of illicit origin, as proposed by the applicants, is not a criminal or criminal procedure, but is a civil consequence of the fact that the assets were not obtained in a manner that would be legal and therefore not even result in the acquisition of property rights. It is precisely because the seizure process is not related to a criminal offence or criminal procedure, but against property, i.e. the so-called and rem proceedings, and since the offence by which the property was acquired was unlawfully at the time of acquisition, that is to say, we estimate that the introduction of the proposed regime will not interfere with the constitutionally guaranteed presumption of innocence provided for in Article 27 of the Constitution and also not with the right to private property referred to in Article 33 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At that starting point and in the fact that the proposal for a law in the current legislative procedure has been made by the competent committee and has already been subject to extensive amendments and that the provisions of the law have also been significantly improved on the basis of amendments resulting from comments or opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service, which have raised doubts about the constitutional compatibility of the proposed solutions and have also ensured the proportionality of the measures envisaged by the proposal, we believe that the proposal for a law will constitute a good tool in practice against the acquisition of property in an illegal manner. However, it is ultimately worth mentioning or pointing out that it is a new approach in the Slovenian legal order, that it is a fundamental change in the understanding of the possibility of assessing the origin of property law and that it is therefore good to maintain a certain degree of restraint and proportionality in determining the provisions by which these procedures are defined. We therefore assess that the law, as it is currently drafted, meets all these criteria, otherwise if amendments proposed by the SDS Group are adopted and my predecessor has already said that they interfere with these institutions too radically and too open constitutional issues to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 30th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can see the hands. Check-in is on. Mr. Kolaric, please, you have the floor. Someone's got a microphone on. Please turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Amendment to Article 3. First of all, I must say that this is the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, which I think we are discussing for about a year. The first drafts were tabled this time last year, the law was being corrected, we had a general discussion about it, so I think after one year it's really time for us to accept it. And not only will we watch neighbouring countries do something about this seizure of illegal property, but we are more talking and waiting for completed procedures, especially criminal procedures, which we know are very long-lasting. So I hope that today we will actually get that tool, along with the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which will enable the judicial authorities to work faster, and thus the illegal assets will be seized. However, if I return to the amendment, I must say that if this sum, which is now written, is reduced to EUR 50,000, is reduced to EUR 5,000, I fear that the law of war will be unprofitable, that it will collapse together and that the law will not allow for normal work. The capitalists mentioned earlier. I agree that perhaps 50,000 euros is the limit, given that this is, in spite of all this, some kind of property intervention, that we should not go below this limit, that they will then deal with small, wealthier cases in various procedures and that what we are adopting this law will remain somewhere else at the brink or will be forgotten. In short, I think there must be some appropriate limit, which we have also set at EUR 50,000, which is why I cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law has been substantially improved on the Committee, but there are still some obstacles which could have significantly changed this proposal so that certain obstacles to the start of the financial investigation could be removed. Among other things, this limit is €50,000, which is not the limit for the confiscation of property, but is the limit that allows the financial investigation to actually begin. During the financial investigation alone, it may then be possible to identify substantially higher amounts of assets of illicit origin than could be concluded before the initiation of the investigation. As a result of this high limit, which is currently set, this procedure would then be halted, which would not have led to the initiation of a financial investigation at all. This border is also significantly lower in Ireland and is more consistent with this proposal that we have before us today, and I therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you very much. While I will talk about Article 3 and the amendment, the essence of Article 3 is not an amendment or an amount of 50 or 5,000. I don't understand why we're always kicking our heads through a wall and we want to do something that is, because I believe in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, in violation of the law. Article 3 provides that the procedure for financial investigation and the determination of the legality of assets shall be carried out if the criminal or forecasting procedure proves that individuals own property. Only suspicion is sufficient to carry out the financial investigation, which is too low a evidentiary standard and is also inconsistent with the provisions of the law. The non-compliance of this Article is also clear with Article 10 of this Act, and it is also true that this is not a special procedure, but an act within the financial investigation procedure. In short, I don't know if we can, with all the respect and good purpose that we have, actually accept something that the Law-Legal Service reminds us that it is completely in conflict. So let's be clear, I'm talking about 3. A member. Such instructions by the Legislative and Legal Service are also quite something compared to the Penal Code and the Constitution, but they all go against a proven non-coordinated legal basis. I don't think that this state council can afford such rights, once again, with all due respect and good purpose. If we had a serious intention to make the right marriage, we should have done it a long time ago, either way too late. Secondly, if we do it, it is better to make it consistent both within the laws and with the constitution, but not that we will now have it on our noses because of populism or what we accept, and then everything will be wrong and we will look for constitutional judgements and so on. In short, I think that we should amend Article 3 in accordance with the provisions of the Legislative and Legal Service, with precise definitions of what is suspected, what is sufficient evidence standard, but not to change on our noses and to blur the essence of non-compliance between Articles 3 and 10 of this Act, as well as non-compliance with the Penal Code and the Constitution. That is why I say in advance, on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, that we will not delay the debate as promised by our colleague Györek at the College and that, despite my good intentions, we cannot adopt such a law, which, in spite of my good intentions, is because the law, which is inconsistent with itself, does not go into law and the Penal Code and the Constitution as a legislative branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Before I go to paragraph 3, only two sentences. It is true, a year of Romompom on the left, advertising, retreating and again setting up new articles. If we go to Article 3. In Article 3, we are putting this amount at EUR 5,000, and we believe that it is the same and we will also support the amendment, but it is not a key amendment to support the law, and I must say that. If we wanted to be in the coalition, we could, given that the article was open, set another limit, say, 20,000. But there's one more thing to say. The Ministry has given more than a hand away from this law. The world of justice – it won't work, hands off. Law enforcement also said something similar in this law. So I am afraid that we will adopt a law where justice has no serious purpose in implementing it and that there will probably be many more reasons to declare something unconstitutional and so on, although I think that we all have a good purpose in this law and that we will adopt it in the course of today, tomorrow, or I think that it is already today. In short, 50,000 and 5,000 is not a condition for our support of this law, but we think it would be a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you. Since it is still an interest, I am reopening the possibility of applying to the debate. Mr. Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u40	I am speaking as a motioner and would like to comment on the objections or concerns or arguments for and against the amendment to Article 3. First time. I can't understand the debate by my colleague Barovic in any other way than the expression of a significant discrepancy with some of the Slovenian National Party's statements, which on several occasions in public appearances called for some speedy judgements, the closure of tycoons, the closure of ineffective economists or criminals, and, on the other hand, it has problems with the law, which in a very moderate and gradual manner introduces good practice of confiscating assets of illegal origin. This law provides all constitutional guardians and I believe that the constitutional judgment of this law would also be positive. These guards exist. The fact is, as I said earlier, that assets which have not been obtained in a lawful manner cannot be regarded as constitutional property or that the right to such property cannot be comparable to the constitutional right to property. If it's illegal, it's not property, it's not property. That's clear. Article 3 or the amendment should state that the law followed the logic of proportionality, some principle of rationality, of proportionality, which implies that we should incorporate into the law such mechanisms for implementing the law, which will enable the law itself to be effectively implemented. When it comes to the amount under consideration, whether it is possible to start a financial investigation, it should be said that if so drastically reduced, from 50 to 5,000 – otherwise let me say, if this amendment were adopted, it would not prejudge the meaning of the law in any way, and I will also support such a law, but not this amendment, because it seems rather irrational to me. Irrational, because we will deal in fact with fines, with matters that may cause a lot of costs to the state, because we believe that not all financial investigations will determine the illegalities of certain assets. And if we were actually dealing with small assets today, we would probably also burden taxpayers for unnecessary reasons. One of the guarantors of this proportionality and rationality is therefore also the limit of the amount where the financial investigation begins. From this title, of course, I will not support this amendment, nor will I support any other amendments, but I repeat, these amendments do not prejudge. They're prejudging the likely effectiveness of the law. When there's talk about other amendments, I'll try to explain why the marriage would be less effective and that's all at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav. You want a replica? But you weren't appointed? [[advertising from the halls.]] He was. Good. Here, you have a replica, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the Slovenian National Party was addressed, it goes to all representatives of the parliamentary group and a very short replica. Mr. Yuri, Comrade Yuri! A typical example of a distortion of viewpoint of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Far from resisting such a way of solving a problem that has accumulated over assets illegally acquired. We even support the amendment to begin to verify reasonable suspicions since 1991, which you object to because you have only proposed for five years. Why five years? Now I'm not going to politicize and point out what I think, why for five years, because we know when the most assets have been seized. Not in the last five years, but five years ago. So much for a little while. In the Slovenian National Party, I repeat what my colleague Barovic said. We note that things are not so simple, constitutionally not easy, and we must be aware of the consequences of what will happen to us if the law is adopted quickly, so flatly, because certain articles are not, in fact, in the opinion of several lawyers that we have consulted with them, as someone said in a graphic way, also the case, two lawyers, three opinions, but are actually very shared in their opinions. [[…]] So much for an explanation, Comrade Yuri, that it will not turn out to be as if we are opposed to the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Franco made a statement as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Mr Györek expressed his opinion, which pleased me and reflected a certain movement of the Slovenian National Party. Today we have heard that in principle he supports this law. When we heard the President of the Slovenian National Party in the general debate, we heard that he defined him as a Nazi law. If there is now this thought and this change of attitude, of course we are looking forward to it. As far as the period of financial investigation is concerned, I think this is the subject of the second amendment and we will talk about it. I repeat that we are particularly opposed to some amendments in terms of the operational effectiveness of such amended articles. In principle, we are not absolutely opposed to the fact that investigations would also allow for the period until 1990, but let us be aware that the funds and databases for effective investigations that extend to that period will not be available to investigators. From this point of view, one such pleonaism seems to us to be an unnecessary addition to this law, but if most of it is for this amendment, of course we will also accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I personally support this amendment. While I do not think that it is crucial and decisive for this law, it nevertheless gives a great message value. For the amendment speaks of us not making exceptions. We will not make exceptions to heights, as this height can then, of course, open up a lot of other, significantly larger cases. And perhaps we will pay attention to the low value and then more will be opened in the course of the process. That is why I believe that the exception should not be to work, that it is necessary to look back not only for five years, but from the start of the Slovenian state forward, and here I do not agree that there is no data. It's data. It's got to be. If they don't, we'll find them. That's not true. But in the age of this development and computer, there's no hell to find back data. Data can be found if you want and, of course, if it's political will. That's when you find everything. There's more to it than that. Political will is all it takes. And above all, here I am concerned that the law on this subject had to be tabled from the National Assembly and that this law did not come from the ministries. Here's the problem, dear fellows. And not just this law, but some other laws that should have been prepared long ago in the ministries weren't. They didn't. But then the law is prepared here, and the slightest mistake has to be found that the law is collapsing, that it is unconstitutional, that it is inappropriate, that it is non-systematic, that I do not know everything to stop the story. For God's sake, there's someone in this country making arrangements. God forbid anyone in this country should be responsible for anything. Two hundred, three hundred, four hundred employees. And these are the key problems of this society, that some, after a long time and after a while, stole everything that could be stolen, in a legal way. Now we don't have the data, but we can't verify the constitution, and ownership, and property is the world and so on. Of course it's sacred property. Where did they get it, for God's sake? Where did they get it? Yesterday I saw a kid who came in with a masseracy and put the choice in one place in Ljubljana. And we all know how much it takes to work and make money to buy, if I say so, a celibacy or a lagoon or something like that, like masseracy! So who are we painting? We paint ourselves. If we are not able to face the problems of this society, then we are not in favor of this story. Then we have to get out through the door, all of us. Or we'll face these problems that they are. People are asking us to do this. People ask us to do so because they cannot live in such an unjust country. They can't and they're right. So I personally believe that not only will we look at the case of pre-trial and criminal proceedings, if suspicion is found there, but we should look at something else. There's something else. Even the one who comes in with a masseracy, or the one who rides very cheerfully here in Ljubljana with a red Ferrari with a Ljubljana plate, two, three or more. Tell me what you have to do so you can buy a Ferrari. What kind of job is this? I would go to such a job as to ride a Ferrari around Ljubljana. I don't know if that's so easy. On the other hand, there is a whole bunch of homeless people when we leave Parliament. I am therefore personally in favour of reviewing everything since 1990. Those who fear it, I believe they will oppose it because they have come to their property in strange ways, in one way or another. I believe they will oppose, as is the Association of Supervisors against the Company Act, which we will deal with later. I believe they're against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u48	I'll focus more on the amendment itself. Five thousand or fifty thousand euros as the criterion for the procedure to begin. See, the principle of proportionality was also mentioned, that only a lower limit should be set. I totally disagree with that. Even if the sums obtained were lower in an illegal way, there is no reason not to prosecute. The other problem is, in fact, different. There's another problem. Based on the suspicion. Sufficient arguments must be made to justify the suspicion, regardless of the sum. Here we have a problem in Slovenia. Whoever followed the debate yesterday on the use or misuse of the specific investigation methods used by Sova and the police, we have just seen at the last meeting of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission that suspiciously poor criteria are being used to trigger a procedure that has a grave impact on human rights. Let's say the case of Mayor Stichec, when some of the indictees were enough to say that the police started the procedure at night when the procedures were actually being carried out for the worst terrorists. The case was dismissed, and it was shown that he was not involved, not a suspect at all. I want to draw attention to the low evidentiary standards at the beginning of the proceedings. And here, justice should only have really good criteria. These indications must really be clear or reasonable enough to be able to speak of a reasonable suspicion. The sum itself is not essential, so I will support this amendment. It doesn't matter if it's five, ten, fifty, one hundred thousand euros. It's not the sum, it's the proper procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I see one hand. Anyone else? More deadlines, so the application runs. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much. When we are talking about this amendment concerning the possibility of initiating a procedure, I am joining those opinions that it is necessary to give the opportunity to revise everything. Maybe someone would say we didn't catch one of them who stole millions. That's a fact. So far it has not been this political will to make the worst of them, and it is not now, because mostly from coalition parties or from the former coalition you do not support this to be regulated in the Penal Code. In order for these financial irregularities, those who have broken a country that has been brought into a subordinate situation that has led to an attack on the financial stability of the country are criminalised as the worst crime of equal treason. You don't support this. It is interesting that, two days ago, the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, requested the responsibility of the financiers after I and our Group proposed this crime in the Penal Code, which is being adopted today. Punitive responsibility. The introduction of individual criminal liability for irregularities in the financial sector. The European Commission's proposal is to regulate this on a European level and, of course, you will now be the one who is behind the bluff – some, I don't say all of them – to file or sign this asset confiscation law, now you will be the one in a difficult position. Even from the top down in the European Union, this financial crime will begin to be pursued differently and your honesty will be seen in this. Of course, I am interested in how you will react to Barroso if you do not want to respond to the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, ignore it, the journalists must not write about the fact that even worse incrimination is envisaged, more severe penalties and, of course, what we have in this context is also important. Possibility to review everything. For, look, it was originally with the proponents – or someone said so – that an even higher threshold of 60,000 was anticipated, and you reduced it to 50,000. It seems to me that this is a link between those who reported their income there below 60,000, say Mr Jura Jankovic. From Mrs Alenka Jeraj's committee, we have learned that the Commission has reached out to the data, that it has declared 53,000 euros in income. So if that limit were $60,000, I wouldn't be. At the same time, the same person, through companies abroad, over tax havens, transferred 700,000 to various accounts and avoided tax evasion. And probably this figure of 60,000 was served under that "sign up so you won't come into the frame of what we're going to do for the form to make it look popular for our customers, how we're willing to prosecute crime". In the meantime, it seems to me that you are already drifting back because you feel that this marriage could harm the Jankovic family. Now half the individuals are no longer warmed up. Since we are on the competition market and before the elections, it would be logical for all of us to compete. To tell each and every party about the odd things that the investigative commission has come to clean that terrible things have happened, that terrible financial transactions have taken place through tax havens and so on, and now you are dragging yourself back to this law. How honest did you go into this marriage? I believe that Cvetka Zalokar, who was the initial initiator, wanted to be honest, only then slowly dismissed her, and of course now the political interests of the greats, the symbols of financial greed are greater than the interests and demands of the average Slovenian, who must logically protest against financial greed, against irregularities, against criminally acquired property. I'm not sure most people are genuinely interested in this marriage because it's gonna hit those. Of course, not right before the elections, but before the elections, we must tell the Slovenians what they are offering us for the Messiahs. Investigative commissions have a bunch of data on irregularities, horrifying things, frauds, financial transactions, tax evasion, tax evasion, and so on. But that's the money from the taxpayers' pockets from the average Slovenian. And if it goes that way and they become leaders, they'll cover themselves from the state budget of Ljubljana's debt, they'll show up. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] However, the country will go bankrupt guaranteed. [[...]] And we must not allow that, so we must leave open the possibility that the financial institutions and investigative authorities will really be able to look at the greatest craftsmen who could hide, even though it started with a very low number. For at first sight it seems that 50,000 is so small that they are not great fish. Of course they are, but if you see them hiding so far as to show that they have hotels and I don't know what, income is 53,000 euros. That's where he's kneeling. And it's already a test stone, whether you're honest about putting the accounts of the moguls on the table, even though they've hidden so successfully that they can under this limit of 50,000 euros are illegally acquired assets that you predicted. At first glance, they were taken from banks by millions, some hundreds of millions. It's just as hard to catch them as it is at Al Capon, and you have to give them a chance to slip through the banana shell to grab them. Just like happened with Al Capon. They just didn't prove mob sins to him, but they did prove tax evasion on some small segment. And we have a similar situation, it's underground, it's organized crime. They protect each other with the help of the highest politicians or they do them for the Messiah, even though they have a lot on their backs. Those sociologists who say there was a crime in the bank system. That's right. And today, in these laws, the hours of decision and the hours of truth are how you decide. You can decide what we suggest, but you can go to the set with the Ljubljana mayor and continue to support what such a powerful man has allowed and what they allow with their hunters. So, I would argue that we are honest that what the law says is what we really want, and one of those indicators, the lactose paper is also this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Juri made a statement as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u52	Otherwise, it will be very difficult to match such brilliant implementation, as colleague Jerovšek has been shining in these pre-election excursions on all possible areas and to feel there is a constant, some obsession with the Ljubljana mayor who is not here, so I would still call on those present to focus on the topic that we are discussing, in this case on the amendment to Article 3. In doing so, I can answer Mr Jerovšk first of all that no one is withdrawing. The law was passed. The law has been in existence since 2009, and the first draft was made by the Justice Committee of the Zares. Then we discussed it with other proposers, co-proposers and, above all, with the Government. The law that we have on the table today is actually the result of this long synergy, so I can say that the law is good, that it has all the necessary fuses and that it does not constitute a departure from the key objective of this law. Once again, if he has not heard from me, I repeat that whether these amendments are adopted or not, we will support this law because it is our law, because the law that we adopt is in fact all in this national assembly, and at least we will conclude this mandate with something that may be extremely useful for the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. See, if legislation is to be effective, it must, of course, be short, clear and concise. I am convinced that the amendment, which speaks of small, insignificant amounts and matters, blurs things out and that those who fabricate conspiracy theories ascribe it to others think about it. We have people who own us or steal entire construction companies, and some propose to clear up who stole the car, the hack and the shovel. It's some nice twisted tactic. Also, to intervene 20, 30 years ago is that theory that we need to explore everything so that we can't find anything in the end. The real wildlife and tycunization began in Slovenia in August with a story about Mercator, where the spoils were distributed, then continued to own in Intereuropa, and in Luka Koper, where those who were still teaching us around before the previous elections in the light of some of the most honest Slovenian parties and today, of course, are hiding behind some fences, rooftops and so on. In this country, as far as this area is concerned, surely none of the parties who have participated or participated in power since 1991 shall be free of sin. But if we want to clear up stories and make them transparent, then we need to have clear, simple and effective legislation. I would also like to accept this with our support today in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have talked a lot about the Ombudsman’s Report in this national assembly. I have been in this time since I have been involved in politics, and I have also warned a little earlier that the abuse of this Institute of the Ombudsman is also taking place to cover up such matters as have been taking place in the privatisation process. I don't know where to find the limit where to put this right now, but I do think that this law that we have before us today and those amendments that we agree with in the Slovenian People's Party to set a limit of EUR 5,000. But it is true that when these problems begin to be solved, let them be saved from above. Let the courts, the prosecutions and all the judiciary not deal with 5,000 euros, but with 500,000 euros or 5 million euros further and further down. This will not result in this blurring that they will deal so much with the hot thieves, while the big, bad fish will escape. Today it has been said that there has been some talk about some Nazi laws, there have also been some laws of the previous system that have introduced nationalization, and today I would wonder what would be a greater sin — to nationalize some of those who have been wrongly, unhygienicly or not in accordance with the laws that have come to such riches as they have received, unjustifiably, or was the greater injustice committed when it happened? And we went into denationalization, which also, I have to say, hand to heart, failed. And there are many other things that have not been solved, and there are many things that in this process, when something should be denationalized, have passed into the hands of such people as we are talking about today, which are also supposed to be the reason for us to adopt such a law. And there's this limit. I think that this privatisation started, this rotten privatisation, the "admission" even said that already in Markovic's time, when Marković's law was, and at that time, some took advantage of the fact that before privatisation began in the independent country of Slovenia had already brought some procedures to their advantage. So we could go back a few years ago and open these cases. Mr Barroso said well that people should be called to account. And so is politics. You know, when an architect puts something wrong and there's damage, it doesn't have to be very big, it answers with its career for all that. And this architect, like doctors and so on, can never again manage a responsible business as it was given to him. We could find one of those among the politicians, too. I can't point my finger at them, who they are, but they must be between us or in the Slovenian space. I will support this law and these amendments in order to move this matter, because we are saying that the Slovenian state will need to be reset. I would even agree with those who have made this expression or expressed it because I can say that now our transition and our success story have finally proved to be unsuccessful. And all that is happening in the world should be Slovenia, with its policy, capable policy – at this point this smallness of ours can be a great advantage – to adapt and to such things as would have happened to us could have been successfully avoided. That's why I say we blame ourselves for most of our problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment to Article 3, which reduces the amount of unduly acquired assets from EUR 50,000 to EUR 5,000. This is an amendment from the SDS Group and I think it is a rational amendment from its point of view and an amendment with a view to doing so. It is perfectly clear that the element of this amendment is to make this sum rich and, in fact, to allow a large number of small offenders, if I may say so, small profiteers in a long time and to prevent the persecution of those who have really become rich in large sums, with 50 000 euros per individual feeling, I have nothing against it, relatively little, but it is millions of sums and more ten million sums of money. I understand that when you are going to the Demagogic War with 5,000 euros, in fact, on behalf of the general injustice that has occurred, you are actually protecting Fridays, Timekeepers, Rascans and so on, that you have your rational interest. That is why, of course, I will not support this, and I continue to expect those who wonder why we have actually proposed this to be, to tell you that we are thinking gravely serious. It's not your concept because you think we're corrupt. In fact, it is very important for you to maintain a picture of the corrupt Really, so that you can have a clean conscience yourself, because it is difficult to live with a fragmented conscience when you see your people dragging around the courts and so on, while you must defend the integrity of your client and your policy. It's not a simple operation. From this point of view, of course, today is indeed an opportunity for the demagogies of all kinds, as we will hear in this room, on this very matter. But I would say that this law is a sensitive law. This law interferes with things that we need to be firmly convinced that they will. And I'm sure they'll hold now. Above all, I would say that in these matters we may unwittingly say more than we intended to say. One of these things is certainly an affront to the Ferrari. We heard a nice speech from one of our colleagues, who wondered how a 22-year-old kid would come with a massage and put his girlfriend down; how is it that there are three Ferraris in Ljubljana and so on. I asked myself how I, who lives in Ljubljana, never noticed that at all. How come I don't really pay attention to maserations and Ferraris? So I guess I'm not interested. I'm interested in books. I'm interested in other things. I don't actually see Ferraris or any other car, a car is just a means to me to beat distances. It has to be quality, but it's not expensive if you can, and so on. How come some people notice these Ferraris? "I'd like to ride with a Ferrari too." I would never ride with a Ferrari on my own. I don't understand why you would drive a Ferrari. And the difference between the one who rides a Ferrari and the one who says that he would ride a Ferrari himself is simply that it worked for someone but not for the other. If this marriage talks about it, then I won't do it for this marriage. But if this law speaks of what we think it speaks of, and we are sure it speaks, then I will support this marriage. However, I will not support any law based on disdain based on the auspiciousness and similar categories of human mind or ethics that have done great harm to this country and beyond in society. So once again, the supporter of the sum of EUR 5,000 supports the hunt for small offenders, rather than focusing on some large profiteers, mainly from the third or last phase of privatisation, because this big change has taken place here. Mr Saiovic has already mentioned the dates I intended to mention myself. August 12, 2005. You all know what that means, and from this emerging story. Once again, it is understandable that the SDS Group has proposed this amendment. It is also understandable that we have overlooked them in the proposal of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposed law was poorly prepared for the first reading, so we also rejected it in the Slovenian National Party, which despite warnings did not convince colleagues in the National Assembly who considered it appropriate for further consideration. They advocated the thesis of correcting it with the amendments tabled, even for all the articles. As we can see, this is a special law that must not be inconsistent with the Constitution, the Penal Code and the CAP. As we have heard on the Committee, however, all amendments tabled are contrary to the legislation in force and are not in line with the legislative and legal proposals. The law also provides for the possibility of confiscation of property, but unlike the proposed law after a legal judgment, but earlier without the possibility of alienation. Each confiscation will certainly create a problem of lowering the value of the property and possible subsequent compensation action. The reverse burden of proof is taken from the present law, so it is worth considering what this means when it comes to constitutional review, since this has proved to be bad for people in the process and has been removed from the law decades ago. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we support the creation of order in this area, which has been made possible by the law in force so far, but, as we see, it has not been respected. However, we certainly agree that cases that have been dismissed since 1991, but as I have said, the law must have a solid basis for marriage, so that it will not be just a law that will cloud the looting and crime that we are all talking about. By reducing the standard to 5,000, as the amendment foresees, the law will be devalued and we will have too many procedures that will last be considered a systemic error. We already know that, and we've already been warned by the D.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you. I can only see one more hand. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Look, three hours and something else is available. Let's talk about whether we're going to use these three hours for pre-election propaganda, or whether we're going to use these three hours to debate it. What are we gonna do? I spoke earlier about the amendment to Article 3, and now everyone else has passed. Now I will tell both Mr Saiovic and Mr Gantar that I have made it very clear in the introduction that we will support the amendment to Article 3, but that is no condition if you refuse to support it. This position applies to all articles, all of our amendments below. All our amendments below are well-intentioned, we believe they improve the law. If you don't think so, that's fine, but if you reject all the amendments, we'll still support the marriage. What are you fighting about then? So what's the problem now? We have achieved ours by amending Article 57. Article 57 discussed whether five years or all since 1990. This has already been adopted on the committee. So we all agree, except for the Slovenian National Party, it was not clear to me how they would vote. We all agree, therefore, that we will support this, regardless of the outcome of the support or non-support to the amendments. Well. What now? We'll go three more hours of Eppey in the style of Mr. Saiovic and Mr. Gantar, because then of course I will. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, because you will be able to continue, Mr Saiovic, because if you talk about the tycoons from that August 1997 or 1996, when, then I will tell you that this is not true, but that they started long ago, which this law covers and therefore is not the problem. So you're going propaganda. And if you're going to go propaganda with the tycoons in the time of the Yangtze government, then I'll tell you that publicly tell me one who is a member of the SDS. Tell me one of them, who's a member of the SDS. Everyone's on your list, not one's on ours. And go ahead. If this is how you intend to proceed, then I will begin with Mr Golobic's lies, right, Mr Gantar, then I will continue with the NPU and with what your President sent, but I urge you not to do so. I'm calling both of you. Don't do this, because neither will I. Otherwise, I'm going to take the same tone as the two of you. Same tone and arguments. But if you are prepared to stop this accusation, let's stop, let's move on to the Penal Code, the CAP and so on. Or are you prepared to proceed with pointless accusations and so forth? I repeat that we intend to support all the amendments that we have tabled, but we do not condition support for the amendments we have tabled. Whether they accept it or not, we will uphold the law. So, is it necessary to attack SDS with Mercator and I don't know what? There is no need, since we have already united on the committee to amend Article 57, which means that the law has been in force since 1. 1. 1990. So I don't know what the problem is. So now you decide whether we're going to continue this whole charge story, then I'm going to make a list, or let's be realistic, and let's just say that we all support this law. Make up your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you. Since it's still an interest and I see more than one hand, I'm opening the application. Well, if it's a replica, you'll only have three minutes. Replica, Mr. Saiovic. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u64	It will be enough, Mr President, even half a minute. I must say that I fully agree with the debate by my colleague Gorenak, that was the intention, that we have reached the key point on the committee, but it is always good in political debates to make order within their own species and listen to a possible magnetogram. As it says in Rollanj after the scene, we could now assess the political damage done by a heavy cavalry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u66	Very briefly, three minutes will be more than enough. Dr. Gorenak, of course, thank you for your advice, but above all, I am very pleased that you will support the marriage. That's great. With regard to all other matters, I would say it would be appropriate if we turned a hundred and eighty degrees and told our colleague. My performance would probably have been slightly different if I hadn't been behind the performance by my colleague Jerovsk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? You want a replica, Mr. Jerovšek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u68	Comrade Gantar, with regard to your relationship with the Maserati and the Ferraris, I must say it is exactly the same with me. I'm not interested in that at all, and my car is a means of overcoming the distances you've expressed yourself. But you said, "If you were honest or if you had a good conscience." Did you think that I had no clear conscience at all? I want you to say it out loud. I believe you're not the problem with illegally acquired property. Even if it were one euro of criteria, I believe not, and I don't have one euro. You won't catch me. But before you spoke of a clean conscience, I was pointing my finger at this bench. And it's just because I know I can be sharp, I'm 15 years in this House always the same and you have nothing to tease me, so I can be sharp and I'll stay that way. And I will open my eyes to Slovenian people who are often flushed. To be attracted by the symbols of financial greed and to make sure that they are fighters for small people. Yeah, but where if they stole everything from the banks from all the channels? They make people suffer, they don't have jobs, they make Slovenia look bankrupt, and now they're going to prolong this agony, and you're going to tell me or you're going to tell us here that we're sitting here like people who caught us and who don't have a good conscience. That's kind of what you're saying. Now that you've said you need to turn a hundred and eighty degrees, you thought of me, then I think you're now aware that you've shown the wrong target. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you. Would you like to discuss it? There's no replica to the replica. Then there's the debate. Anyone else? I can see more hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Pojbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really have to say that in such instigations and deceptions by the Slovenian public, it is indeed necessary to speak up. Mr Gantar has indeed allowed himself one, I will say, to lay down the attempt to point your finger at the Slovenian Democratic Party when he claimed that we are trying to confuse the implementation of this law with the amendment we have proposed. To deal with smoking thieves, not those who really need to be treated under this law. I am convinced that both the Slovenian Democratic Party and all the parties to this law are pursuing one and a key objective. Notwithstanding the amendments, we are following this objective, which we have set together, that it is imperative to adopt a law whereby the authorities will have the opportunity to confiscate those assets that have been illegally acquired. I am sure that this is the wish and interest of everyone sitting in this House, because in the past these gentlemen have allowed themselves to rob a whole country. And that is precisely why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we absolutely support such a law and over and over and over and over and over, we have proposed and considered how to achieve a majority in this Parliament in order to adopt such a law. Now we have come to a situation where we are so close that we can adopt such a law, and then allow ourselves to have someone from the party Zares, who should look in the mirror, with a leader in their presidency. They are trying to encourage the Slovenian Democratic Party to try to confuse the implementation of this law. And today, colleague Gorenak, Mr Jerovšek and many others in this House have already made very clear who and where those people who have been unjustly rich at the expense of privatisation have been unjustly rich at the expense of the poor people of our citizens and citizens from whom these people come. But today I had no intention of talking about sharing again in ours, in yours, in yours and in other ways. I was confident that today we would be able to have enough power, confidence and common interest to protect our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from those thieves who brought this country to where they were. But it's obvious that we can't do this again, and that's why I think it's incomprehensible that some of the debaters in this House are trying to divide us again into yours and ours. Will we, once in the holy God, understand that this Parliament is to protect the interests of our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Are we here to protect the interests of individual lobbying, the interests of individuals, and this we place against the interests that are our duty and our duty to defend them in this Parliament, and these are the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, like I said before, let's stop sharing. At least these last five minutes, which we have until the end of this mandate, let us endure this mutual disagreement, move forward this step, and let us say this is for the common good, for our citizens and for our citizens. And it is normal, logical and right for those thieves who have come from whatever species they come from, this property, which is not theirs, which is from citizens and citizens, to be taken away from them and returned to the state budget or those who have been stolen through this transition. It is urgent to think about this now. And you'll talk again when I answer the microphone: "Look at Mr Pojbič, he's talking again, he's got a pre-election speech. Do I have a pre-election address from the beginning of this term, or how do you imagine it? Is that supposed to come to parliament and be quiet? So only the consecrated have the right to speak in this House, and these are Really, LDS, SD and I don't know who yet. But who else in this House practically has no right to speak? If he says anything, it's pre-election talk. When will you realize that you are not dedicated to this adulterous country of ours? No one in this country is dedicated. Ma'am, please, I didn't say anything when you spoke anywhere in this House, but please stop jumping into words. At your age, we could learn a culture. Please, Mrs. Pecan. I hope that citizens and citizens will also be able, on the basis of such and other things, to make the right decision in the elections, who is the judge in this Parliament and who is the one who does not belong to this Parliament. But I will not decide on this, it will be decided by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So all of you who are in this National Assembly, all of you, I call on you to come together and adopt this law at least on such key matters. Let's not deal with the details. Mr Gorenak also made it very clear that we are not insisting on any amendment. No amendments. We absolutely support this law. And that's why we don't take any hints, no hints, and I won't say anything worse. And no one in this House has the right to do that. Nobody! Everyone can say what he thinks, that is the right of every Member and there is no problem here, but the instigation is not welcome and we will not achieve anything, in particular that the electorate and the electorate can then always at the forefront of that statement: Aha, but in the Slovenian Parliament they can't make a deal, they're just fighting. I think it's true that it has to come to a confrontation of opinions, but not instigation. At the very least, I would expect the Slovenian Democratic Party to be so sloppied by what it has allowed today from the one who has practically led the National Assembly throughout the term of office. Mr Gantar, I have to tell you, I have never, and I never wanted to let myself go to a personal level unless someone directly challenges me, even personally, but this time it seems to me that you have offended me, and I do not allow it at all. I'm not letting anything happen. Not only as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also as Marijan Pojbič, who represents his people in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Let me just say this one more time. The five thousand that are not a condition for supporting the law were given in the amendment form for the following reason. If police investigators come to some murder scene and they find a fingerprint there, that's a little something we shouldn't be filming because they're investigating a murder. That's a real comparison. Persecution authorities will have proof for a person of 5,000 euros, which can lead to millions. That's why we gave it up. Again, I say what Mrs Biszakova has already explained that this is not a condition for further action. That's a lame accusation. Once again, I ask and call upon all to support the law, in fact, we are all at the point of supporting it, except for a national party from which I have not yet heard the position, whether it will or will not be. So, the law is passed today, let's move on, do other things and not make accusations.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u74	I'm just glad to hear such encouraging words. And I'd say, "Let's move on." In these three years, I'd like to say let's move on, so I'm glad some people finally think there's something else to be done. We've done a lot, and we'll do a lot more. I'd say that first. There were some words on my account, too, no problem. Words are important, they count acts. If you give up voting on this amendment, I will also believe you, because otherwise this amendment is botalizing a story that is important for the numbers of 50 thousand, not just 50 thousand, 500 thousand, 5 million and so on. Let's get this straight. And I've made that clear before. All I'd say to my colleague Jerovsk is that I don't know if he understood me. We can look at the magnetograms, but still, for the last days of this meeting of the National Assembly. I don't even think of it as an opportunity to tell my colleague Jerovsk that he was taking advantage of himself in the privatisation processes or that he wanted to take advantage of himself at all. In this sense, I am sure, despite the fact that I think it has had a very strange view of social and political development for the past 20 years, but I will never tell him that he has taken advantage of himself. Not if I'm right. That's why it's so funny that two people who haven't had anything since this privatisation, more than they didn't want to have anything, now they're arguing about who had something and who didn't have it. So I think Jozet Jerovsk and I have done this. Otherwise, I would tell Mr Pojbich that he does not accept instigations and innuendo, while he himself is generously sneering and winking. If you say you don't accept teasing and innuendo, please don't do it yourself. And that's a very important criterion for what to read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you. You want a replica of Mr Jerovšek or we can go on to the next article. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We've partially cleared it up. I'm not gonna tell my friend Gantar either, because I don't have any Indicators, and I trust him that he's never taken advantage of himself and that it's not in his best interest. He admitted to believing me too, but of course he was offended that I had a strange view of social political development in the last 20 years. Is it that I'm saying that the country is in such a bad state that you've driven it, or your option, in the last three years, a miracle? I think it's the freaks who did it, who stole it from the banks. Then he's also Dr. Vehovar, your fellow sociologist in the profession, a freak when he says there's been crimes against citizens. Then he's a freak. I quote him here a few times, but you haven't heard. And for the lactic paper or experiment, my colleague Paulet would just like to ask if this is a miracle if it is incomprehensible for me to hear that Zdenko Pavček will be the future finance minister if Jankovic is Prime Minister. It's a miracle to me. But the kind of man who destroyed a company like this to be considered the best financier? This option of saving Slovenia like this? For me, it's a miracle. Paul, point your finger at those who really work oddly. For lactose paper, the test is only to tell me whether you also find it grotesque and rejected that there is a man who is a symbol of financial greed, that Mr Jankovic certainly is, to speak to those who protest financial greed. Isn't that cynicism a couple of excellencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u77	I would ask that we return to the darkness. We are in Article 3, and it is good that the debate is lively, that we are not too sleepy, but only a little more serious, but I would ask. There's another replica before, Mr. Gantar. This is a replica of the replica, you'll get the word as a debater. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would only like to say to Mr. Paul that I was never a man who would try to instigate anything. This has never been in my interest, and I am also sure that people who are trying to argue with me are thinking differently and do not believe this at all. And that's why, Mr. Gantar, you see, you've shown again how it's possible to start with this story of instigation. You've shown again what a great man you are in these matters. And you're trying to provoke people in every way, to make them respond to yours, but they've been said before, I'm really going to say very, very well-thought-out to the Slovenian Democratic Party. And these instigations are already over the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not to mention lately what has been written in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It would be good to ask who is the one behind all the darkness, not to say domestically, dirty things that are written in some media that are below every level and write below every level. And we also know whether or not we can assume who are the owners of these media from the background and who manipulate these media, that such or other non-truths, pigs and I do not know what else to write about the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think the moment has come for Slovenians and Slovenians to understand what this is all about. And believe that such instigation will bring no good and no good to anyone. The fact is that the Slovenian Democratic Party has recently proved that the only party in this Parliament, which has a clear programme, objectives and all that is necessary to enable this country to move forward in the next term. None of you who are here today in Parliament has yet shown anything concrete about the programme. It would be time for us to stop pushing each other and start confronting the media for once with individual client programmes. Then people will be able to access the specific and key information that the party chooses in the elections, which party to vote and in which party and its programme will see their rescuer from this extremely critical situation brought about by the current government with this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you. I saw two hands to discuss. Mr. Gantar, thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova. Is there anyone else? Yeah, hands too. Mrs. Pechanova, I'm going to open up your application. Then I ask you to go to the next article and the next amendment. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that it took me quite some time to understand which amendment to which article is currently being discussed. When I discovered that this was an amendment to Article 3 and when I went to read the explanation of Article 3 in the draft law in the first reading, I must say that I agree more with the number 50,000 than 5,000. This is a very rational reason. Not for the one written in the explanatory memorandum, but especially for the one that shows what would have happened if we had really reduced the amount to 50,000 euros. This is because if a financial investigation were to be initiated for amounts where the criminal procedure is initiated for EUR 5,000, I don't know if we can imagine how many financial investigations we should then launch. I must say that in Slovenia there is probably a crowd of illegally acquired assets. This means that then, for financial experts who should make a financial inquiry and also propose the confiscation of this property, it is likely that new sections of the economic study should be called or opened in order to provide all the necessary financial investigations. For this reason, I think that this amendment is truly and simply propagandising this law, making it completely pointless or going beyond the basic objective, that is, that the great wealth benefits are actually determined and that these great illegal wealth benefits are also sanctioned, so that first the property is seized. We in Slovenia have a whole range of well-known purchases of property, when people simply cannot prove – those who have made such large purchases – where they got the money, but we do not have a system of determining the cause and effect. We don't have a system that, like they do in Italy and in Germany and elsewhere, when someone can't prove that they've paid taxes on so much and so much income, income that allows them to buy so much and so much property. For example, someone who bought a yacht for 500 000 euros should prove that he paid a tax on income of over 5,000 euros. Because he probably didn't live off the air at the time he was collecting 500 grand to buy the yacht. And things like that. That is why I think that reducing the border of the introduction of a financial investigation is, in fact, a deliberate reduction in the importance of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I applied to Article 4, and now I see that there is only a third article, so once again, Mrs Pecan, once again, we wrote 5,000 euros because investigators can only predict up to 5 and then they can reach millions. There is no need to support this amendment. We'll still support the marriage. There's no need to accuse anyone of premeditated malignment. We support the law. The law on illegal confiscation of property is called. You don't have to shoot anything with your eyes or your words on this page. But if we've already moved on to Article 4, I don't know if we are or not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u83	No, we haven't.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u84	Okay, well, then I'm gonna quit and then I'm gonna check in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u85	Mr. Keck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that the SDS does not necessarily appear to support this amendment, which, as Mrs Pecan has said, is blurring, making the investigation at the expense of large fishes difficult. When we were just in the frame of reference mentioned by my colleague Pojbič, I think that this media space and instigation can be created by those who have enough money. A good example is TEŠ6 and a freebie. And they can effectively create the image of this political space, and then, based on what happened before, you just have to say the following sentences: Oh, we know, you really do. Oh, we know, your president. No specifics.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u88	I now debate as Mr Zareza, not as a proposalr. The fact is that today we have heard the intention of the biggest opposition party to support the law, and we are looking forward to that, so I am once again calling on the remaining Members to discuss this in order to focus on specific issues. These are the amendments. We are now concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 3 and the fact is that the synergies that have arisen around this law in spite of these differences is a good sign. We leave the mandate at least with a joint project called the seizure of assets of illegal origin. That is why I think that it is unnecessary to discuss the merits or the sins of this and those of the parties in previous periods. Also, various instigations on a personal level are useless here. Well, one more time. If the amendments are adopted, the law will be slightly different, perhaps in some parts less effective. Nevertheless, this will be an important law, as it is moving forward, to introduce practices that are known in other countries and which are an effective means of limiting and operating organised crime. This law is intended, in particular, for those groups which are catalysed as organised crime dealing with illegal conduct. Economic crime is also a part of this, and I think it is essential. In short, if we adopt this law unanimously today, we will end this mandate with a useful decision. I hope that further, under the other amendments, we will not be able to witness again the various accounts and the pre-election meetings, but let us, as colleague Gorenak says, limit ourselves to this part of the debate and try to get everyone together as close as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you. Can we close the debate on Article 3? [[Yeah.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 4 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you. Just an explanation, in favour of not having another hour to discuss one word. What exactly are we suggesting here? To not only tackle crimes against an economy where there are 5 years in prison or more, but 1 year or more. The same applies to the offences referred to in Article 10(4), again from 5 to 1 year in prison. But I would like to point out that now they won't be able to back up the rafts on this side, the condition isn't, we'll still support the marriage. But we think it would be a good thing if you supported the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I can see more deadlines, so I'm opening up an application for debate. Check-in is on. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Since I have only five minutes for all the amendments, I will only say that I am in favour of this amendment because it is extending a set of criminal offences for which it is possible to carry out a financial investigation because the current set of criminal offences is extremely narrow and because I think it is right that the possibilities for financial investigation are also in other criminal cases where illegal property is obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Kolarich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u94	I would not support the amendment itself, although it seems to me that it is also linked to the amendment to Article 3. There the amendment's proponents lower the criteria from 50,000 to 5,000, and this time, in criminal cases, so to speak, is a wealth of meaning, which means that we will go to great width and inefficiency. So both of you are going towards the inefficiencies of the law, so I don't support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 4? Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u96	As with Article 3, there is now much talk in Article 4 about the effectiveness of the law to catch small fish and so on. The problem, as I said, is not whether or not we're going to spread the matter, but how the matter is going to be handled legally. Also EUR 5,000 could be obtained in an illegal way and if the procedures are well managed, if the actual burden of proof is correct and reasonable suspicion is indeed justified, it will be as well as in the previous article I am in favour of extending, because we really need to supplement this law properly, otherwise it is better not to have it. [[...]] But I'll check in on the next one.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 4. We are moving on to Article 10 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I see two hands. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u98	See if any of the laws are covered by the famous Hegel River Der Teufel steakt them detail, the devil is hiding in detail, this is the law. I was thrilled to approach this law myself, but then a little overjoyed when the draft came. A really flawed law and here will be applied to press the key for if it is supplemented accordingly. This article is very important. It is good that what we requested has already happened on the committee, and some have supported the amendment of colleague Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and SDS, which extended the period of years from the beginning of the transition. Whether anomalies occurred in the last, third period of transition, as they say, or in the first, is difficult to say. I believe that most of the conditions for the abuse of social property from the anomaly have occurred since 1992, and the error may have been made earlier that we did not build an appropriate legal order to protect it when we again restrict ourselves to the social property that was the subject of the greatest exploitation of abuse. In fact, I want to say that we came too quickly during this period without building an appropriate legal system to protect this social property. We thought that everything had already been done with the introduction of the multilateral system and the proclamation of the sovereign Slovenia. We were aware of the problem, but the key flaw in this transition was the unconsistency of the legal order at the time. We've somehow overrun previous surveillance institutions, but we haven't built any new ones. The defences were systematically decomposed and the new defences were not set up and conceived as they should be. Extension of this period. This amendment also speaks in one sentence about the period from 1 January 1990, and then in the fifth point, it is also a very important matter, detail. The financial investigation shall also be directed against persons who are not in criminal or pre-trial proceedings for the suspicion of criminal service. This is said not only to those who are already at some stage, but also to those who are not, but to some extent there is a reasonable suspicion. The problem, as I say, is that this suspicion is being misused. This is what I fear that we will again have a media circus for some well-founded suspicions, which eventually turned out to have been obtained on very superficial indications, even some rumors and so on. There will be a need to tighten these standards for this institution of reasonable suspicion, but it is necessary to extend this area – both in terms of the sum, both in terms of the nature of the offences, that is the third point, then the fourth point, and then the fifth chapter or point of Article 10, which says that it also extends to persons who are not in the process of investigation, which is perfectly logical, because the purpose of this law is to get the perpetrators, but not to restrict them again, and in the end we will not know who we are chasing at all, or who the circle of those we can legally pursue will be very narrow. But it is sad that only at the end of the term, some are bragging about what we will do, I fear that if we do not adopt these amendments, we will get a bad marriage and even say that it is better that it is not, because if this law is not effective, we will have a facade again. In Slovenia, they passed a reverse burden law, but it will be so conceived that we will not help ourselves much with this law, except for some media arrest on the road, which will not expire in any way. So it would be true to pay attention to these amendments and support them so that we can actually get an effective law, a legal basis. What will we do next, how the courts will act, whether they deal with small cases or large cases, and this is not a matter for the legislator, but for the functioning of the courts and the effectiveness of the courts. We can't solve this with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u100	Just for a little while, so there won't be a fight. Look, someone came up with some property in 1992, and I thought it might come up with something, and today it's not possible to pursue it because it's out of date. However, the prosecutor could have initiated at least a financial investigation, at least that's the point without him being convicted. In this context, there is this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u102	The amendments to Article 10 are very important in order for this law to be implemented effectively. In particular, I would like to highlight the proposal for a new paragraph 5 of Article 10 which allows the introduction of a financial investigation also against those persons for whom the prosecution obtains information that a person has income and property which are clearly incompatible with the official income or property of that person. Such provisions have laws in other countries, this law does not have those provisions. That is why I think that we should also have the opportunity to have a financial investigation in place when this apparent imbalance occurs and there are a lot of such cases in our area. In addition, it would point out that the second paragraph of Article 10 has been substantially amended to allow for where the current text impedes the financial investigation. For the current text enables the application of this law to be outdated and the execution of a financial investigation by those persons who have already been convicted of a catalogue offence if more than a year has elapsed since the conviction. That's why this amendment is very important. I would like to point out the third point of paragraph 1. This point is also disputed because, in practice, this means that a financial investigation would not have been initiated and it would not have been possible to use the reverse burden instrument in the case of those catalytic offences for which the identification and confiscation of assets of illegal origin is envisaged already under criminal procedure. We know, however, that there is virtually no confiscation of property in criminal proceedings. This means that, at this beginning, we would also open up the possibility of carrying out these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to the 10th? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. It also considers it extremely important that what makes possible the proposed paragraph 5 of Article 10, so that this financial investigation can also be initiated against the data submitting person and his assets are in obvious disassociation with what he has presented as income or what he has come to in a legitimate manner. And these cases, as my forerunner has pointed out, are huge. The Commissions of Inquiry are concerned that a person has submitted EUR 53 000 of income and has made available and distributed money, at least what is known so far, as evidenced by the Alenka Jeraj process of 800 000, out of one city. And look, it was revealed two months ago that more than 100 million euros were spent in these tax havens from Slovenia. Most of this money is for money laundering and tax evasion. Of course, the prosecution will not have done that, the investigating authorities, the police, have not been interested so far. I hope that at least the tax authorities or the financial investigation could do something. You do not find it unusual that for more than 100 million remittances, the government does not make one statement, does not send one document to Parliament. Otherwise, the general debate on the incomplete reply of Minister Kresal was put to my question of the question, but in the meantime, she resigned and we were unable to put this debate to an end. We are probably interested in where more than 100 million went, since these were not legally acquired millions. These are the recapitalisations of our banks. These are surpluses and money that wasn't paid to contractors in Dars, and to the Contingents, and so on. That's the millions. At least we have to get the satisfaction of knowing through which persons the mighty have passed through. If we don't accept this, I think that this law will be a largely dead weapon with which it will only be feared, and they will walk by and be bold and powerful and will run for the highest position in the country, even though we should play the piano. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I don't see any more applications for Article 10. Mr Škrlec, Secretary of State for the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for a little while. With regard to the amendment to Article 10, I would like to say the following in the light of what we have heard. I would like to point out that the introduction of this new fifth paragraph, which speaks of the fact that a financial investigation should also be initiated where the person against whom it is being initiated is not in the pre-trial or criminal proceedings, may cause difficulties in the implementation of the law. The law is based on the application of its provisions to those persons for whom there are grounds for suspicion that they have committed a catalogue crime. This does not necessarily mean that they are in pre-trial or criminal proceedings, for starters, these are different categories. I stress this because Article 5 defines the property of illegal origin and, later, Article 20 defines the measures that may be taken against a person or property of such origin, these definitions relate to the person for whom the grounds for suspecting that she has committed a criminal act. If, in Article 10, we change the circumstances of the financial investigation in that we can also introduce a financial investigation for a wider range of persons, this will mean that it is very likely that it will not be possible to confiscate or protect this property later on, which means that the question is whether this amendment makes sense. As far as date 1 is concerned. 1. 1990, I would like to say that an amendment has been adopted on the Committee to make a financial inquiry into the assets five years before the commission of the crime and the crime can also be committed many years ago. So it is not necessary for the prosecution to investigate tomorrow only the acts that were committed yesterday. Even if they investigate acts that were committed ten years ago, they will be able to conduct a financial investigation five years ago. So this time zone of research and investigation is significantly expanded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I no longer see the application for Article 10, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 10. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 13 tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u108	Just a sentence. We think it's important that the D.A. directs. Now the D.A. can direct, not direct. That's all because we think it's okay, because then there's only a higher probability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you. Anyone else? I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 13. We are moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving to a debate on Article 52, which is the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the criminal code within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice hello to you all! Preparation of the second novel of the Penal Code [[KZ-1B]] is part of a major project that bypasses both the drafting of the new Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, as well as the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which has already been adopted. This is enhanced by the introduction of specialised departments in the courts for the most difficult forms of economic crime. The whole package of this legislation, together with organizational changes in the courts, is what we believe will provide the basis for a more effective response to these most current forms of crime. The 2008 KZ-1 design was subject to considerable criticism and proposals were made for accession to the new penal code. In cooperation with the expert, we have found that writing the new penal code is not a suitable way of reacting to this situation, but it is reasonable to make those corrections that are necessary either because of problems in practice or because of reasons for better efficiency. Thus, in various expert groups, we have been doing and preparing for more than two years a major novelty that eliminates the greatest shortcomings, legal voids, non-compliances and errors in this law. We are also in line with the requirements set out by the international community, in particular European Union legislation. Among the solutions brought by the proposed novels, the proposed amendment to the crime of infringement of material copyright has so far been highlighted. In this regard, I should like to say that, according to our assessment, the amendment of the competent committee has reached a reasonable and professionally appropriate compromise, which, on the one hand, provides for the proper protection of copyright, also provides an internal body of legal provisions in the Code of Penalties, since it provides for the same protection of copyright and copyright, while at the same time allowing the personal use of copyrighted works to the extent necessary for the modern development of information technologies. Otherwise, it brings novels of the Penal Code to change both in general and in a specific part of the Code. In general, the most important changes in the regime of compulsory psychiatric treatment are the reform of the Institute of Extreme Power, the provisions on negligence are recast, the daily amounts of fines for crimes are more appropriate and the terms or expressions used to simplify the case-law are supplemented. On the one hand, the specific work is to harmonise crimes with international and European legal acts, particularly in the areas of war on crime, aggression, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, crimes against the sexual inviolability of children and adolescents, the environment, space and natural goods, black employment and complements with regard to public promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance. With regard to environmental crimes, Slovenia is also in favour of introducing a delay procedure before the European Commission, but with the adoption of this law today we will be able to avoid this procedure. However, changes and additions to crimes against the economy are, of course, the most prominent in the special work. Here we need to mention a new definition or new definition of the concept of economic activity, which will now define more clearly that economic activity also includes certain activities that have not been so clearly understood so far and have represented quite a number of problems in practice. In particular, I would like to point out a new crime – damage to public funds – this is the new 257.a., where additional protection of budgetary and other public funds is involved. This crime was based on the experience of the Court of Auditors and also on the close cooperation of the Court of Auditors with the experts who prepared this novel. The SDS Group has tabled several amendments which are essentially the same as those which have been rejected on the committee responsible. There may be more time to define these amendments in the debate. However, in all cases these are amendments for which we estimate that they are not necessary and that they would be in the legal order [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Introducing more ambiguities. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask Dr. Vinko Gorenak's president to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law of the Criminal Code was therefore discussed at the 38th meeting on 4 October and the 38th meeting on 5 October. The proponent is the government, as we know. The materials available are extremely numerical. We had all those mandatory ones, such as the bill, the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of State and the Council of Justice. A record of the public presentation of the opinions was made available to the members and members of the Committee and then a few other documents. The Union of Consumers has reached out, the Council for Electronic Communications has reached out, the Association of the Phonogram Industry has reached out and so on and so on. I must say that in the course of business we had amendments from SD, DeSUS, LDS and unrelated Members, amendments from the SDS Group and separate amendments from the Zares Group. The opening part was made by the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, then the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Kingdom and the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations, which does not support the law. The Council of Justice, or their representative Vesna Pavlič Pivk, stressed that they do not fully support the bill. Mrs Ziva Drol Novak, representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, has, of course, strongly opposed the amendment of Article 148. The Committee has adopted amendments not to list them because there are three lines and they are written in the report. The Committee did not then adopt two amendments to the SDS to Articles 64, 82 and 100 and to the Zares Group. The Committee adopted the text of the amendment law, which is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 October 2011. First, I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. See, Mr President, since everything hereafter is so connected to this Article 64, I would ask you to allow me a slightly broader view of this matter, and then I will not take the floor. I also intend to make an introduction that is not and will not, at least I hope, trigger some kind of political propaganda rapal because it is not necessary, nor is it necessary in this law. I can basically say that we will not support this marriage. But it's the next thing. The media is either way full. I have only observed one record, this is the writing of Dr. Belet in Del, which opposes, but otherwise the media is very full of this writing, how important it is that the National Assembly at its last session accept the amendments to the Penal Code. However, something has to be said very clearly. The law is totally irrelevant to the rule of law, at least this law. These changes and additions do nothing to improve the situation in this area. This law will have negative rather than positive consequences, about why, I will continue to talk about concrete things. It is necessary to make it very clear. See, if you are reading an argument about this law, the changes are justified by political and not legal language. This is a very eloquent matter, and therefore why do we change this law, or why does the proposer want to change it? It should also be said that the Penal Code was a few years old, it was adopted in 2008 and already in 2009, as you know, the Minister attacked this law very much because he said that the provisions did not apply to minors, and later it turned out that it was not true, which was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court and the Council of Justice, or the Supreme Court. So Minister Zalar in the past was not a proponent, if I may say, of the good implementation of this law. But let's take a closer look. I would like to stress, Mr President, that I do not intend to come forward, so I will now say my own, and nothing special, because it is a related thing. Look, Secretary of State, you said in the introduction how important the offence of damage to public funds is in Article 257. But you know, there's a problem. The problem that arises is very clear. By 1 November or when this law will come into force, no one will be responsible. No one answered. In fact, any further damage to public funds will be subject to prosecution by prosecutors. But what has been done until this novel comes into force, no. Prosecutors won't be able to prosecute it because it wasn't criminal. So that those who are accused of crimes against, say, official duty, public authority or the economy will in fact be forgiven. Now you're proposing amnesty for these crimes. Indeed, a new crime is in essence a special form of the crimes currently in force. However you nod before I make myself say this, you need to know that I don't feel so competent to say it publicly, as I said, but I've been prepared by lawyers involved in constitutional law. That's what they warned me about. That's why I say it in public. Even those who were twenty years old or a little less back in the Constitutional Court. So it's not a tricky thing from the vine. I think we are going to the crime of harming public funds essentially amnesty to all those who have done so far. I don't think that's right. Now we've fixed some of the amendments. The consequence of those economic crimes, the official duty, the public powers that are now a criminal offence will, in my opinion and in the opinion of the people who advised me to do so, be a halt to the proceedings. Stopping procedures if they've already been. Come in. Extensive force and illegality as a crime. This case is extremely problematic. It's extremely problematic. It's about excluding criminality, not illegality. I would like to stress that this is a matter of excluding criminality and not illegality. But you should also look a little longer ago. If you look a hundred years ago and those professors of the time who dealt with criminal law – I will not list them, although I have listed them here, let's say our Dolenc in 1929 and others – have an acute opinion on this. And we're essentially going back to this definition a hundred years ago, that's what we have to say. It's a practical consequence. Look what the practical consequence of this will be. Employers who have been charged with a criminal offence of a violation of fundamental rights under Article 196(1) of the current law for failing to pay the prescribed contributions will not be convicted of extreme force. After the amended provision on the extreme force contained in the proposal they are considering today, they will not only be freed but will be freed. They'll be forgiven! Not only for the offence, but also for the obligation to pay the prescribed contributions. We also heard that in a public presentation of opinions, if you remember. The supreme – and thus I will conclude my contribution to this law – which in fact constitutes an infringement of the same right under Article 22 of the Constitution, means that the proposed new provision of Article 58(5) of the KZ-1, which, in the future, is intended to condemn all offences for which at least five years of imprisonment is prescribed, means that this warning sanction, originally intended only to replace short-term prison sentences and fines in the light of criminal offences, is extended to a general alternative to punishment. Be careful, it extends the general alternative to punishing 99% of the crime in question, including murder and similar crimes. Now it will be possible to pass a conditional conviction. I speak theoretically, of course, but here is the systemic error that is embedded in this law. A systemic error that remains in the law despite the amendments and cannot be rectified. In particular, it is of particular concern that such a death sentence could be handed down to anyone, i.e. the returnee, under the same conditions as the first time the offender has declared the charge, is found guilty, or that the plea agreements under the law governing the criminal procedure have been concluded with the State Prosecutor. Now, if anyone doesn't follow me, at least stay on the tape. At the public presentation of the KZ1-B proposal in the National Assembly, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice in all your legal proceedings did not discuss any legal issues. That's what you have to say. The Minister himself has even stated that there are also some conflicting opinions, so he said, but you ignored them because it is a democracy. Okay. But you referred to the fact that the proposal was expertly endorsed by the most prominent lawyers. If so, this is also possible, but it must be said that it is possible for such specialised lawyers to cooperate and agree with these solutions, but it is not possible to conclude that they have been aware of the constitutional dimensions of the proposed solutions. Look, one of the more informative in this area is definitely Dr. Bavcon, who has told and advertised many times in the media as a composer, but we know that he works at the Institute of criminology of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, who also participated in the drafting of this text. However, if the drafting of the provisions of substantive criminal law is left to this group of experts who are experts in another field, at least in my opinion, then, taking into account the experience of the past, it can only raise great doubts as to how this law will be in real practice. Criminology is certainly a knowledge that examines the actual situation outside their right framework. The legal framework is being studied by someone else. We need to be very clear here. Some of the proposed solutions to the new provisions are such that they will obviously not be properly applied, and we can therefore doubt the important involvement of legal professionals. I have already talked about amended Article 332, which is the crime of burdening and destroying the environment. This article is also open because in a long paragraph you specify several forms of the same act, with one missing a description of the conduct, and the other not having any effect. This means that in practice it will not be useful for judges, at least in my opinion or in our opinion. The provisions of Article 324 on the criminal offence are also dangerous, but rather presumptuous, as you know, road traffic, where, in the event of selected serious infringements which can only reasonably be committed with intent, paragraph 2 states that they are also punished in the service of negligence. It's not going to work out. This case isn't useful on the court table, if you want, in front of a judge. I'll get it over with. The fact is, in the case of recorded crimes, only misappropriation with the appropriate permission of the public authorities is considered a reason to endanger even violations of legal values, such as life and some physical integrity, and this is already a very different matter, and I will not use any ugly expression. Somehow, I think we're talking about witches who are deliberately causing disasters by some recognized communication with the devil, but that's what one of the lawyers wrote. In short, the last sentence. There are so many legal problems within this law that, according to our assessment of the Penal Code, which is now in force, they complicate and make it useless in judicial practice – I stress, the Council of Justice also opposes it in important works, so this is also a very clear matter. There are so many problems that this product is primarily the desire of Minister Zalar to change something that his predecessor has done, but this attempt to change is an attempt to change to a much worse state, so this law will not have our support. Thank you very much. I'm not gonna talk to you about the amendments anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think we are talking about the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 64. The SDS amendment proposes that this Article be deleted. After the amendment to the Committee was adopted, we re-examined the solutions relating to the prosecution of property benefits in copyright matters and found that the amendment adopted on the Committee did not, however, clarify everything as it should and that there remains a broad scope of interpretation with which we are not satisfied. Although the amendment ruled out tangible acts, there is still a possibility to prosecute the works obtained unjustifiably over 5,000, even though the applicants argued that this was not the case. It does not precisely define the action in relation to the determination of the property benefit, as it can also be taken into account the benefit of the unjustified use of material copyrights, which could also be intervention, which is not linked to a gainful activity. In short, if we look at the new fifth paragraph, we read: "In determining the property value according to the provisions of this Article and Article 149 of this Code, the benefit of the unjustified use of material copyright shall be taken into account". We think it would be a good thing if the 'profit benefit is taken into account', but not as a benefit. These benefits can be of a variety — spiritual, intellectual, and so forth, immaterial nature. In this sense, the fact that the amendment has somehow excluded the possibility of punishing up to EUR 5,000, in the event that it is not used for sale and so on, but not more than EUR 5,000. We therefore believe that it makes sense at this point to keep this article deleted and to remain on the safe side as it has been so far. We are not saying that it is the most ideal yet, but it is on the safe side, so, at least as far as the amendment to Article 64 is concerned, the Group of Ambassadors will really support this amendment and propose that the article be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anyone else want an amendment to Article 64? Mr. Skrlec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you would allow me to walk through all three amendments, given that Mr. Gorenak also spoke of all three?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u120	Initially, of course, I can find that Mr Gorenak has clearly read the article in Del today, written by Dr Bele. His observations that we have heard today are in fact identical to what we read in Del. The fact that marriage is worse than positive effects is by no means agreeable. The fact is that the Penal Code has only been in force for a few years, that is true. It is true, however, that the Penal Code was adopted in such a way that in the majority section, with little to do with the parable, somehow the three authors agreed with this criminal code, and all the other theorists and practitioners generally did not. The law was adopted in a very short period of time in a way that is not customary for the adoption of laws, but in particular for the adoption of criminal laws. We have had very serious proposals and very serious concerns expressed by the pool of the entire legal profession in order to draw up a new criminal code, precisely because it was created in such a situation and is a reflection of a certain state and time. As I said in the opening presentation, we did not follow the fact that a new criminal code was written on the nose and there was no secret that part of the profession was not impressed. They believe that it is legitimate that a complete or comprehensive solution to the criminal situation would be appropriate only in this form to adopt a new criminal code. If I return to this proposal of the novel that is before you today. This amendment was based on three sets or three factors. The first was that, as I have already said, we have been alerted by the majority view of the profession to the conceptual difference in this novel. The second part of the reasons for the change came from practice. Indeed, after we asked them about the application of this criminal code in practice, they pointed to more than ten, more than eighty concrete proposals that they had seen in their work up to that time. And that was the basis for changing the penal code. This has been the case for a third set of reasons, namely harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and other binding international legal acts. Let me define myself to the specifics, as far as I have been able to detect them from Mr Gorenak's performance. The first to go to the detriment of a new crime — damage to public funds — is also in the direction of an article by Mr Belet, if it actually means amnesty. I cannot agree with this at all, neither I nor the experts who have prepared this law. This is because we have general crimes that sanction the abuse of power. It is true, however, that in practice, in recent years, we have shown ourselves, and I think that we will all agree on this, that the criminal proceedings in which the defendants would be convicted of such crimes were not quite enough. And that there is a public belief that the effect of the criminal court is not in line with the needs that appear in the public eye. Of course, we are well aware that in criminal law we must not follow what is perceived as a general need in the public. In doing so, it is important to be very careful because, in accordance with the principle of the rule of law, it is necessary to take account of the fact that only a court decides on liability for a crime in the procedure provided for. However, if we look at the statistics of the courts, we see that the conviction for such a crime is extremely small. However, if we look at the statistics of the Court of Auditors, which is the Supreme Auditor and the Ombudsman of Public Interest in the implementation of public finances, we see that success or result between what the Court of Auditors sees as an irregularity which it considers to be a suspect of a criminal service, and that it makes an appropriate complaint or a statement to the competent state prosecutor, and what eventually comes out of these indictments in the form of convictions is even worse. That is why the President of the Court of Auditors appealed to the Ministry of Justice, to the Council for Criminal Law to verify that the formulations of existing criminal offences are sufficiently clear to allow criminal proceedings. And after a careful analysis, which lasted for several years, we came up with the formulation of this crime, which is now under discussion. And this crime is nothing more than a special form of general crimes by abuse of powers. In other words, it is true that any crime can only be used from the moment it is adopted and established in the Code and that the law is applied for the future, not the reverse. This does not mean that those who have been in the past will be in the process of abuse of authority — but to calm you down — not very much — that these will be automatically forgiven. That doesn't mean that. This only means that from now on or tomorrow after this change takes effect, we will have another additional opportunity to prove guilt by other clearly defined signs. If there was evidence yesterday of a crime that existed yesterday, this crime, which is a special form of the general one, does not necessarily mean that those who were in criminal proceedings for general offences will have to be forgiven. Well, it's not an amnesty at all. It is a matter of ensuring more effective protection over spending through clearer definitions, clearer relations and a more stringent form of responsibility. With regard to extreme force and the exclusion of illegality and criminality. Although I am sorry that this debate was not on the Committee. I expected it to be, but the debate focused only on the crimes of copyright, and there was not much legal argument in the adoption process. What it is, these stages are behind us. With regard to the case referred to by Member Gorenak, I can only say that it is very difficult to imagine when non-payment of contributions could be defined as an extreme force. For the extreme force is the act that is done to deter the perpetrator from himself or another at the same time a danger that could not be prevented otherwise. If someone has operated in a company in such a way that they now have to resolve the financial situation, this is not in any way equivalent to the danger that the Penal Code refers to when it protects life and the body, so I don't know if all these arguments are really so convincing. Conditional conviction and extension of the possibility of a conditional conviction. It is possible to understand that some concerns may arise if society becomes less repressive. That's not my opinion. Of course, I do not want to underestimate, on the other hand, what we have already seen for more time, that there are many conditional convictions in Slovenia. However, the definitions under which conditions and the definition of conditions for the imposition of conditional judgments will not change this. That the conditional sentences are so high, more than 80% of all convictions, there is a large difference in the fact that the fines imposed are extremely small and in this relationship between the fine and the conditional conviction, if we are looking at a comparative Slovenia with other countries. That's where the sentence of fines prevails, and we have the saying of conditional sentences. But, as it is said, the fact that conditional convictions are handed down has very little to do with the conditions for conditional convictions. Today these conditions are very low, they are only easier crimes, and there are still so many. By amending the provisions on conditional conviction, we do not pursue the objective of more conditional sentences in Slovenia. No, it's something else. This is an instrument or a change resulting from the introduction of an instrument in criminal proceedings. This instrument is an agreement on guilt and punishment. We will discuss this further at the next point, but because there will be no debate there because there are no amendments, let me say very quickly what an agreement on the recognition of guilt and the punishment of criminal proceedings means. This is the possibility that the prosecutor, instead of processing an act in court for three years for which it is relatively clear that the accused recognises it and thereby causing costs to the State, will cause stress on the defendant's part and, in the end, may conclude an agreement at the beginning of the proceedings with the accused under certain strict conditions. An agreement defining what the accused is to be charged with, what the accused recognises and what criminal sanctions are provided for in this regard. This agreement will also be checked by the court, this is worth stressing, so it is not only a goal agreement between the two parties without judicial control. However, this judicial review is, of course, different from that in normal procedures. However, the benefits of such proceedings are also different from those of ordinary courts. Saving time, saving energy and thus more opportunities to use energy and time for more demanding procedures is what these processes bring. And it is precisely because, in those cases where an agreement is possible, such agreements would occur and so that the prosecutor negotiating with the suspect whether or not he would admit guilt or under what conditions or what kind of sanction is most appropriate for his action would have more room for manoeuvre that we have given these provisions on criminal sanctions, which only in those cases where recognition occurs, can be applied slightly. This is clear and understandable. On the other hand, with a view to achieving a greater number of fines at the expense of fewer conditional convictions, we also amend the provisions on the imposition of fines, which I do not know if they have been specifically mentioned in the presentation or in the position of the Member. These are important, too. With these provisions, we want to allow the courts to impose several fines on them because we find that there is a problem that is so markedly disproportionate between the fines imposed and the conditional sentences imposed in Slovenia, if we compare ourselves with other countries. With regard to the motions of amendments which go towards a criminal offence of infringement of material copyright. In my opening presentation, I said that I do not really understand this amendment. The committee reached a compromise, a consensus was actually reached, there were no votes against, namely, that the use of works of copyright for personal use is permitted, but that the exploitation of works of copyright that are essentially economic in nature is not allowed, and therefore I do not understand why this amendment, which is essentially the same as previously proposed, which has already been rejected on the Committee, is repeated. With regard to the offence of assault on the information system, where the deletion of Article 82 of the proposal is proposed in that part relating to unauthorised entry into the network, the amendment applicants explain that this could lead to too many people entering a foreign information system without delay. There's a lot of fear in here. We punish crimes and this crime is committed in concrete terms with intent. With an idea that means the unsub is aware that he is acting unlawfully and he wants to do so. So it's not an automatic or unwanted connection to a wireless network, but it's a consciously acquired username and password from someone you're not entitled to, and under its username and password, into an information system that you're not authorized to access. So that fear is too much. With regard to the amendment relating to the introduction of a new offence of assault on the financial stability and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, we have already clarified several times that this crime covers in part the signs that I am introducing with the offence of damaging public finances, partly summarizing the provisions on the objective or responsibility of the Minister of Public Administration and, in view of the criteria it sets out, we find that this would in practice constitute difficulties in proving this crime and hence the related difficulties in the implementation of criminal law. If I finish, then. It is certainly not the case that the draft penal code would be the project of Minister Zalar, who intended to destroy what the former authorities had drawn up. If that were the goal, we'd have a new criminal code in front of you today. The aim is to enable law enforcement authorities or criminal proceedings to have a criminal code that is as clear or as unclear as possible. For this reason, we propose that these amendments, which are on the table today, be rejected by the National Assembly and confirmed by the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I can see that. We're talking about all the amendments together. The Minister has stayed for quite some time with the 100th Article and I want to talk about the 100th Article. The problem with the current amendment of the Penal Code is that Mr Zalar's team has one major handicap. For a long time, they tried to prevent the current penal code from coming into force, then filed constitutional complaints, and the Constitutional Court rejected them if they were legal voids. And the intention of all of this was to avoid trial and fail to apply this law. This is clearly in the interest of the perpetrators of crimes. Obviously. Here I read Dr. Belet's expert that it went even so far as to teach students criminal law without mentioning the rules of legal source or even more by denying it. And there was a great interest. One wonders why. Here I see in the video that yesterday Mrs Kresalova at the Studio said at 5 p.m. that the LDS in this government did what she promised. "We are what we promised. And they did." Yeah, I believe they promised, but to whom? What she promised Mr Pogačar for the lease agreement for the NPU, she did. But what she said at the hearing, she didn't do. And with Mr Zalar as a strong man and Vice-President of the LDS, it is the same. It is not surprising, therefore, that Dr. Bele says that such a new crime of injuring public funds which they have been doing in alternation with Mr. Scholtes will in fact constitute an amnesty to crimes. See what he wrote: "The practical consequence of this new crime will therefore be that it will have to wait for the new acts committed, and for all the crimes of this kind identified so far, criminal proceedings will have to be stopped because according to the position of the legislator, Mr. Zalar's team, it is not to be criminal until now." It's an amnesty. This is also why they defend the introduction of a truly new crime, which is urgently needed, in us and in Europe as well. That is to say that the crime, which we have proposed as the new 257.a Article replacing the current one, leaves as a 257.b Article, we have proposed. And it is urgently needed in this state in Slovenian society. The criminal offence of attacking the financial stability and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. And, look, whoever doesn't see this attack on financial stability that's happening in our financial system and also in our business system with these loans, and it's all happening, it's made by a blind man. And this is a crime that needs to be committed. And it's not true it's gonna cause any trouble. Yes, certain people will have problems, no more gods, no more running for the highest position in the country, but they will come to play the piano then in some place. Look, a few days after we – I was the initiator of this, but our parliamentary group – we proposed and ran into this nihilistic, negative attitude of the rulings so far, along with the entire parties that formed this option, the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, said here: "Barroso for the responsibility of financiers. They should be held personally responsible for irregularities." And after protestors in many countries around the world have called out slogans against the violence of financial institutions and against financial greed, Barroso announced the imposition of individual criminal responsibility for irregularities in the financial sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the Finance Ministry, you will be forced to do something through the European Union, even though you are so scrupulously defending yourself. These acts, this financial greed has received dimensions of great treason in this country and attacks on sovereignty, which is now sanctioned under Article 350 of the Penal Code, but because it is not so precisely written that it is thought that it is also possible to use this for financial crimes, they do not want to judge, even though it says "who, by his conduct, has put the country in a subordinate position". Slovenia is in a subordinate position against other countries, on its knees it has to ask for loans where every day the conditions are poorer, our ratings are declining every day, they have set our ratings. And this is also a direct response to what Dr. Vehovar, a sociologist, said was what happened in our banks and, consequently, the recapitalisation of the crime against Slovenia, against the citizens of Slovenia. And you don't want to see the crime. How far does that go? Although we have already discussed this twice on the committee, the print media cannot write a single word about it because the people would listen. How far does the hunters have the capital and the mighty, these symbolic leaders of financial greed in Slovenia? And not only symbolic, but also actual. Tell me if you will oppose the European Union as well. Then you will no longer join the European Union, then you will tell Mr Barroso no. What will Mr Pahor do now at this meeting on 23 October when he says they will agree? He's gonna get away? Did he also have to remove Mr Jankovic's favorite left? Did he sign his surrender? Will he go quietly to the political slaughterhouse? I'm surprised you don't want to speak in these terrible cases, which are revealed by the commission of inquiry with Mr Jankovic Jr.'s work. You'll all go to the political slaughterhouse. Do they then hold rumors that you will already be stimulated instead? Will someone buy you?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u123	Mr Jerovšek, I remember your debate with the Ombudsman and her report when you pointed out the hate speech. What you are saying is the least offensive, perhaps in certain elements also hate speech, and I ask you because you promised that you would be the only one to talk about article 64 and amendment to do so, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u124	No, about 100.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u125	No, 64.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u126	No, because Mr. Secretary of State also spoke about this article. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u127	Mr Jerovšek, the first asked that he could speak together about all the three articles that were connected, Mr Gorenak. He got this permission and he spoke and then the same Mr. Shkrlec. But you're the only one who's promised to talk about Article 64, and you can talk about 100.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u128	No, about 100.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u129	All right, well, here's to the 100th Article, just stick to the subject of the penal code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u130	Listen, it's not an hate speech, but I believe you don't think it's stimulating for your political option.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u131	Mr. Jerovšek, if you're predicting that someone is being driven or taken to a slaughterhouse, that's the least [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u132	It's a metaphor. Political slaughterhouse [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u133	It's a hurtful speech. [[...]] If you don't [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u134	No, no, I'm sorry. This is what a lot of people use to take someone to a political slaughterhouse, which means they're going to kill them politically. That's not offensive.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u135	You weren't talking about the political slaughterhouse. You were talking about the slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u136	I specifically said he'd let himself go to the political slaughterhouse. Political liquidation. These are more serious questions that we should not avoid. And then today I hear that a strong man in the financial field will be a future finance minister if this option succeeds, Mr Zdenko Pavček, the undertaker of Viator&Vektor. You remember those chauffeurs, how arrogant it was for them, the poor ones who lost everything, to grind into their faces, and their narrowest day, they set up new businesses because they're full of money. I don't want to tell you everything we've heard about him, where he owns his property. And these are the new values offered to the Slovenians. And you're obviously doing this kind of value at the Ministry because you don't want us to support this crime, which is in the rank of assault, which is an attack on the financial system and a threat to the state's sovereignty. And today, in the financial, economic field, the sovereignty of the state is significantly more threatened than in that of the classical, military or any other. That's what's coming, as a result of this job in the country. I hope that, while Mr Barroso too has taken such a clear responsibility, at least a few left-wing Members who have a desire for political survival, who are honest, will open up this dictatorship and this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I often agree with my colleague Joseph Jerovski, but this time much more so. We hear several times in this Chamber how we have the best right in Slovenia, but at the same time we also have the most injustices. I'm talking about how we have great, best laws, but we have laws that almost no one respects and we have very ineffective laws. However, we have developed a wide variety of crime, criminal activity, but almost no one is convicted, especially these large fish that swim completely on the high seas in Slovenia. What does this novel of the Penal Code bring? Dr. Ivan Bele has already been mentioned here. Some of these texts you obviously don't want to read, and let me just read one paragraph. So says Dr. Bele: "The proposed changes to KZ-1 are exclusively political but not legally reasoned. As such, they are interpreted only by a phrase that does not fall within the law: to improve the effectiveness of the rule of law through the amended criminal law. Although under the concept of efficiency we can understand different things, the effectiveness of criminal law can only be detected in the changed attitude of the public authorities towards its application or non-use, not simply by amending the general rules. After many years, we could see that continuously proposing amendments to criminal law is basically just an excuse for the lack of application of these laws." I think that what Dr. Bele wrote in this rather extensive essay can basically be agreed upon. And of course, if you'll excuse me, I think the amendment to the 100th article is necessary. It is better to ban something twice, perhaps even in different laws, than not once. And these looting attacks on this public property in Slovenia, which we have witnessed in recent years, have also contributed in their own way to today's financial image of the country. The fact is that only dedicated persons had access to cheap credits, large loans and the bankers and borrowers themselves knew at the time that they would not repay these loans. In all these years, we have sent a clear message to these people that crime is just worth it. The probability of being caught in Slovenia is very small, maybe 1 to 100, and this is shown by all the different infamous cases in Slovenia – from Satex, events in New KBM, events in the Frankfurt branch of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, where money was laundered heavily, as the anti-corruption commission also found, and of course until the last event in the exhibition of the New Ljubljana Bank in Sarajevo. This indicates the irresponsible attitude and criminal management of these banking institutions in Slovenia. But the paradox is that people are rewarded for it. Mr Kramar left the New Ljubljana Bank with one million fees, we saw what happened in Elan, for the return of the 2.8 million Euro Prize for leading Elan, and we could still list it. In my opinion, the amendment of this criminal law alone will not be enough, but we can add no amendments, I do not know what article left and right. In my opinion, the immunity of the Slovenian kleptomanian elite must first be withdrawn and brought before the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres Guido, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that there were no views of the parliamentary groups in the second reading, I would like to say how we have monitored the entire examination of the legislative procedure concerning amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. We are pleased that the proposer, the Ministry, has shown his willingness to correct some of the uncertainties and also to be prepared for certain compromises. We took a skeptical approach to the code in the Slovenian People's Party because it was not clear at the beginning why changes were even so urgent. When we also obtained external expert opinions, we also received confirmation of our opinions, as well as of the view that the amendments to both laws are well and professionally prepared. The amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code are extensive. Some say that even too extensive, some would even like to have a newly written law. Given what I have had the chance to hear so far, this would be an even more difficult task, which would require much more coordination. Responses to both changes in laws on the ground, if we say those involved, come with positive information with certain warnings. In view of what we have heard about the success of the new legislation in the prosecution of economic crime in the Slovenian People's Party, we are skeptical that the matter has been completed to the extent that it is practical to be effective, but it is also clear that there is actually a desire to do something in this area, so we support efforts to upgrade this matter. With regard to the level of criminal sanctions, which has been slightly increased again, with some comments, we see no problem in the Slovenian People's Party, since the State Prosecutor's Office is the one that proposes and the court considers the appropriate amount of punishment that can only move within a fairly wide range. We are more concerned about the disproportionateity of these penalties, some of which are undoubtedly somewhat high, as also pointed out by the expert interlocutors in the public debate. With regard to Article 64, we believe that an amendment to the SDS should be adopted. We have also eliminated with the amendments the possibility of intercepting all telephone conversations by persons who would be completely accidentally on the scene investigated by the authorities. In short, because it has expressed its willingness to amend, and because this is the end of a useful solution, we will support both laws in the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members, as well as amendments to Articles 64 and 100 of this Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss, I am closing the debate on the 64th, 82nd and 100th Articles of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Penal Code and thus terminating this item of the agenda. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timetable for this meeting today. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Have a nice hello again! As has already been said, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act is part of a broader project for the reconstruction or reform of the criminal justice system, including the amendment of the Penal Code and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as organizational changes in the work of the courts, in particular by the introduction of specialised departments. The proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act are, however, conditions to enable more efficient and faster criminal proceedings, while taking into account all the necessary constitutional guarantees. This is particularly true for the two new institutes we are introducing, these are a pre-trial claim and the possibility of an agreement between the prosecution and the defendant on the admission of guilt. The proposed gradual amendment of the law will also be a traveller later in the next phase, which is likely to be inevitable, this is the introduction of a new criminal procedure, which has been under way for years in the Republic of Slovenia. The Pre-Trial Order Institute is one of the central parts of this novel, which is before you today and by the introduction of this institute we are responding to the findings of criminal law theory and practice that the main treatment in criminal proceedings is often too long and too scattered, so it is not concentrated, and thus somehow hinders the effective conduct of criminal proceedings. The preliminary application is intended to clarify certain essential procedural issues before the opening of the main hearing. In particular, it is a matter of whether the defendant admits the guilt or not. This depends on the course of further criminal proceedings. If the accused pleads guilty in this pre-trial action, then a reduced procedure will be carried out, in which the court will examine only the circumstances which are relevant for the selection and assessment of criminal sanctions. However, if the defendant does not recognise the guilt, the task or function of the pre-trial claim will be to crystallize the subject matter of the dispute itself, that is to say, to clarify which facts are disputed between the parties, by which the evidence is demonstrated, which evidence is permitted or which concerns the admissibility, so that they are excluded in order to ensure the proper composition of the court, and that all those agreements which are otherwise procedural in nature are carried out for the course of the trial itself. When such crystallised substance of the dispute between the two parties, the main proceedings will later be more focused, in a shorter period of time, and will constitute a more effective criminal procedure. A very important novelty in our process law or process system is also the regulation of an agreement on the recognition of guilt. This is partly related to the imposition of a rebuttal claim, but in fact it is much more. This is about the fact that the charge and defence, i.e. the prosecutor and the defendant, who will also have to have an attorney, can agree that the defendant will be found guilty and in this agreement also determine the conditions under which he will confess the offence, which means that a criminal sanction will also be imposed, which the accused will agree with in this case. This practice is increasingly common in other countries close to us, but I would like to point out that this agreement is subject to judicial control as it will have to be confirmed by a judge or a court. The amendments are also subject to provisions relating to international cooperation. The aim is to unify and accelerate cooperation in criminal matters, and the existing international legal aid institutions, such as small international legal aid, enforcement of a foreign judicial decision, the withdrawal of persecution from another country and the extradition of a person, are changing. The harmonisation of the law is also necessary by aligning with the Penal Code, which re-regulations the treatment or safety measures of compulsory psychiatric treatment and protection in the health institution and at large. The harmonisation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act is also necessary in order to satisfy the decisions of the Constitutional Court. With these proposed amendments, we comply with the three decisions of the Constitutional Court, while at the same time addressing certain shortcomings or uncertainties of the existing provisions. I would also like to say that, in the legislative process so far, we have removed the point that has raised the most doubts and debates, a point that concerns the protection of the privacy of communications and has been removed from the Committee with great support later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the board's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. This law was also considered by the Committee at its 38th meeting on 4 October and at its first meeting on 5 October as a working body. The proposer is the Government – I have a lot of numbers here, however – on the basis of the request of the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr. Sajovice. On the proposal for a law, the National Assembly held its first hearing at its 30th meeting on 14 July and adopted the conclusion that the law was suitable for further consideration. At its 62nd emergency meeting on 1 September, the Committee decided to hold a public debate. This was also carried out on 29 September 2009. An opinion was submitted to the Committee on the Legal and Legislative Services. The legislature had comments on Article 36 of the Law. If you'd excuse me, I wouldn't have listed them. Amendments of the Zares Group to 21 and of the SDS Group to 21 and of the Social Democrats groups, Res and DeSUS and LDS and unrelated Members to 28 were tabled within the time limit of the proposal. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Court of Justice, the record of the public presentation of the opinions, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council and the opinion of the Council for Electronic Communications. The introductory presentation of the opinions was made by Minister Zalar, Law-Legal Service, Mr Vnučec on behalf of the Council of State, who said that they did not support the law, and Mrs Vesna Pavlič Pivk, Council of Justice, which supported the legal solutions. A representative of the information officer, Mr Andrej Tomšič, also appeared and highlighted the problem of Article 149.b above all. This envisaged some other solutions, and the ministry later withdrew it, as the Secretary of State had already said. This was also the main problem that we dealt with most of the time on the committee. The Committee has identified itself to the amendments tabled. He accepted the coalition amendments to the 27th Article, then adopted the amendment to the 21st Article of the SDS Group and the Zares Group of Members, the two amendments being identical. However, it did not accept the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 21. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, we have drawn up an integral text of the law, which is an annex to this report and which contains the amendments already adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 30th meeting on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the timing of the sitting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on procedures for the introduction or remission of liability of shareholders for the obligations of deleted economic companies under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of twelve Members with Mr Matev, the first to be signed. I give him the floor to present the law on behalf of the applicants. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Slovenia is in the midst of a difficult economic and social crisis. Many times in this House, we have not agreed on what the recipes for successful economic recovery are, but I am sure that we have common confidence in Slovenian entrepreneurship; in the innovation of our people to achieve their goals; in their commitment to persist in starting their journey with the Slovenian stubbornness until they reach their goal; and finally in their solidarity that they will also share the fruits of their entrepreneurship with the community they live in. Entrepreneurship is a wonderful challenge. To dream of success, which is the fruit of your knowledge and creativity, to work hard for these dreams and to give people opportunity and work. Connecting with others and creating synergies so that we can grow together faster and risk a lot. Risk management is the fundamental element of regulation of economic law. Entrepreneurship did not grow until the end of the 19th century, when Germany, as the first country, introduced an institution of limited liability, whose fundamental characteristic is the liability of the shareholder limited by the level of capital invested. So far, without the limited liability of the shareholders for the obligations of their companies, they could not even represent themselves. This is a fundamental principle of corporate law. The principle of the separation of the personality and property of society and of the associate established on all legal systems of the modern world. Such arrangements have one essential disadvantage. In economic practice, we often face the fact that shareholders abuse their societies to the detriment of the creditor. Therefore, economic law has developed very early mechanisms through which creditors can obtain payment of their claims from shareholders' assets. This institution is called the Presence of a Legal Person and we have it in Slovenia regulated by Article 8 of the Company Act. And watch out! This institute in Slovenia is practically not in use. While in such cases, for example in Germany, the market is regularly used to self-purify and exclude those who abuse market ferrels by means of the rule of law. In 1990, at a time of great financial non-discipline, Slovenia adopted the Financial Business Act and enacted the removal of the company from the Court Register without liquidation. The removal was due to administrative assumptions, such as the legal assumption that the company does not have assets if there was no traffic in one year in its transaction account. The effects of the erasure were horrendous. 17 000 and 80 companies have been wiped out and, according to the Civil Initiative, more than 70,000 citizens and citizens who are still paying the penalty disproportionately for their sins have been affected. These are not large fishes of Slovenian economic reality, but thousands and thousands of small entrepreneurs, whose business path did not come out because of lack of ingenuity, lack of orientation in a complex legal environment or simple resin. Even today, pensions are squandered, private property is seized, and in many cases children pay for their parents ’ obligations with their wages and also by giving up their dreams. Families broke up, some of the victims took their whole life. All of this was condemned by law and not by a court of law. And that's not right, that's not fair, that's unfair. After 12 years, he obviously had the time to correct this great legal and political error, according to the legal profession. You have before you a law which provides for a procedure whereby all proceedings relating to the removal of undertakings are suspended and the member has the opportunity to propose discharge of his obligations to the court. Two obstacles are laid down for the waiver of obligations – a legal conviction against the economy or conditions imposed to overlook the legal personality. The creditor may, by objecting and dismissing obligations, prevent the creditor from defending his or her interests if the court, in the process of determining the conditions for examining the legal personality, considers that the conditions for transparency are given and thus for the party's personal guarantee of the debts of the company to all creditors. The procedure may be completed in two ways. If the court objects, the debtor will continue to pay the creditor his or her liability, but if the liability is not proven, the debtor will be relieved of these obligations. Such a procedure, which uses the fully-known and existing institutions of our insolvency law, is an appropriate guarantee for the applicants that, even at the possible constitutional judgement, the Constitutional Court will establish the constitutionality of the proposed solutions. Such a procedure allows the bastard to remain punished, innocent, but the unfortunate debtor will be given the opportunity to end the calvary that makes normal life impossible. He'll get the chance to start over after 12 years. An opportunity for a fresh start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask Dr. Vinko Gorenak to explain the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much for the fourth time today. The proposal for a law on procedures for the regulation or dismissal of the liability of shareholders for the obligations of deleted companies was discussed by the Committee at its 38th meeting. Ten. The first to sign or proposer is Mr Frangež, who appeared before me. Here's what I can say next. We had the following materials: The Legislative and Legal Service has given its opinion, the Judicial Council does not support the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the law, the opinion of the State Council is that the law supports. A number of amendments were tabled for the proposed law within the time limit. I think that practically every article where the concept of the law submitted by Mr Frangež has been mentioned in some way, so that we have the amendments of the committee. A number of amendments have been submitted to the Committee in a new written form, so let me not list them because they probably don't tell you anything either. The Committee, taking into account the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, also adopted them at the meeting following the debate. The meeting was attended by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of Justice, the Council of Justice and the Civil Initiative with Dr Šimet Ivanjk, who also participated in the debate. Mr Frangež presented the law in the introductory explanation, followed by Mr Škrlec, State Secretary, who explained why the Government does not support the law. The legislative and legal service was also of the opinion that the law would not pass any constitutional judgment. The Council of Justice is of the same opinion, contrary to the principle of equality before the law, which I will then explain in the role of the representative of the Group of Members, what we believe about this in the Group of Members. Dr Ivanjko was also involved in the debate, and he was very intensive in defending the law. A representative of the Civil Initiative, Mr Šuštaršič, also participated, and he was very much in favour of the law. The amendments that have been adopted have been adopted, as I said before, to practically all 18 articles, so that a new concept of the bill has been adopted by the Committee. The law in such a text is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. For the opening presentation of the Government's position, please Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Say good-bye again! The bill before you today is in its nature similar to the Financial Business Act, novel B, which also provided for the termination of the procedures already in place for the enforcement of claims against shareholders and provided for the waiver of obligations for the shareholders of deleted companies and the abolition of the personal liability of the shareholders of those companies which were deleted from the Court Register without liquidation. The government understands the proposalers' desire to address a problem that has certainly caused many unfortunate situations in reality. Such attempts have also been made in the past to resolve, but these attempts have not undergone a constitutional judgment, through the law of justice which was recognised by a group of business entities in the 1990s. The government estimates that the same fate is very likely to be met by this bill. The fundamental solutions to this proposal, which relate to the cessation of the procedures already in place for the enforcement of claims against shareholders by exempting members of deleted companies, are likely not to go beyond the constitutional judgment. The proposed deletion of Article 496 of the current Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination, and its replacement by the rules of the new Act on the waiver of the obligations of the shareholders or the enforcement of the exercise of a lack of legal personality, do not meet the criteria laid down by the Constitutional Court in its 2007 decision. These solutions, without prejudice to the rights acquired or expected, interfere with these rights and also by arbitrarily amending the rules, the legislator violates the principle of equality against law and the protection of trust in law. Thus, the problem of deleted companies cannot be resolved in a constitutionally consistent manner with the retroactive effect, i.e. by the cessation of claims that occurred before the entry into force of this law which is before you today. On the inadmissibility of interference with acquired or expected property rights of creditors, the Constitutional Court has already stated, as stated. The waiver of the liability of the personally responsible shareholders of the deleted companies would only be possible if the State provided creditors with some financial compensation for lost claims, and in this case the issue of discrimination would be raised against those who have already paid such claims. In regulating any legal relationship, the drafter and the legislator must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Not only because of the principle of legal certainty or the rule of law, but also because of the legislative economy. Because of the conceptual solutions brought by this law, which are based on the fact that the existing procedures are suspended and can also be definitively halted, and in the light of the problems of inequality of all concerned, we believe that these conceptual inconsistencies cannot be addressed even through amendments. As a result, the Government considers that this law cannot be considered further. This opinion of the Government is also based on an expert analysis by the Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. In the Government’s view, the regime for the removal of companies from the register without liquidation or unlimited liability of shareholders could be changed to a greater extent with the effect of going forward, i.e. for those companies that are yet to be deleted, not for those that have already been, and also by amending the Financial Action Act, insolvency procedures and forcible termination. However, there is no way to undo or correct these effects. The law which granted these rights was constitutionally consistent, the law was in force and therefore its effects cannot be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law aims to put an end to the judicial, administrative and enforcement proceedings initiated under Chapter 3 of the Financial Business Act and the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination proceedings in which creditors of the deleted company claim against the shareholders of the deleted company which are not yet terminated on the date of the entry into force of the law. Having examined the provisions of the Law amending the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies of 2006, which, in a very similar manner as the proposal for this Act, provided for the cessation of fair, administrative and enforcement proceedings initiated by creditors of deleted companies against a shareholder of deleted companies, the Constitutional Court found that such a provision was contrary to the Constitution and repealed it. The Constitutional Court found that the legislator had no real and reasonable reason for failing to provide adequate protection for the creditors of companies deleted under the Financial Operations Act and concluded that the lifting of the unlimited solidarity of active shareholders was contrary to the Constitution. With regard to the termination of the proceedings, it has found that it is either an infringement of the acquired right of creditors or an infringement of the expected rights of creditors also protected by the Constitution. The Constitutional Court found that in a particular case there was no constitutionally permissible objective to justify such an intervention. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly notes that in the proposal for this law the legal situation is very similar to that of the Constitutional Court in the above-mentioned case. In this case, too, it would be the view of the Legislative and Legal Service that the rights acquired or expected by the creditors of the deleted companies would be acquired. However, the applicants state that the purpose of the proposed regulation is at least a partial mitigation of the consequences of the law which has laid down and which has imposed unlimited liability on the shareholders for the obligations of deleted companies. I agree and fully understand that this law, which we will adopt if we do so, is the cessation of the further enforcement of the law that causes injustice. It is necessary to know that this law has already caused some injustices, which will also need to be rectified, but I am personally in favour of this, as I also said on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, that this law is adopted, that it is on this path and that the will to eliminate injustices is demonstrated. Because if we're just discussing how one marriage fits, and the other marriage doesn't work, and we're looking for a solution, we're never going to get rid of the injustices that we can. It does not matter if only ten or only one of them do so. Therefore, we will not oppose the draft law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. If it is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, let things be resolved as proposed. In any case, we are confident that the last word of this will be spoken very soon by the Constitutional Court and its decision will be respected and taken into account in the Slovenian People's Party, as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By means of the proposal for a law before us, the applicant seeks to remedy the consequences of the provisions of the 1999 completely non-life Financial Operating Act, which has allowed the removal of inactive companies from the register of justice and has introduced a legal presumption that the members of these companies have become personally responsible for the obligations of these companies. This law violated the principles of the rule of law and legal certainty, the principle of free economic initiative, confidence in the rule of law, the principle of the protection of private property, the principle of the prohibition of retroactivity of legal acts and other principles. The Financial Transactions Act has resulted in a large number of citizens, i.e. those who have submitted equity certificates to shareholders; those who have received shares later deleted for their retirement; and those who have become members of the company due to their underpaid salaries have, on the basis of their arrears following the removal of the company, been irresistiblely responsible for the obligations of this company. So they have to pay high amounts to creditors, including pensions. Tragic stories of people as a result of the implementation of the Financial Business Act we have been able to read in the material to this law into an assessment of the state and the reasons for the adoption of the law. Therefore, there is no need to reestablish the trauma these people are still experiencing today. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that in the cases of a number of companies which were deleted under the 1999 Act, it is not the speculative conduct of those responsible in the companies, but in many cases for companies which had blocked accounts due to unrecovered claims, so they were deleted from the Court Registry. The fact is that this 1999 law has caused so much injustice for our citizens that it is high time for the National Assembly to adopt solutions and at least partially correct the injustices that have occurred. There is no way we can escape the indignation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's argument of violating the principle of equality before the law. In her opinion, however, the Government has written a negative against the law that we are considering. The government's concern is greater than possible injustices that might have happened to those who have already been mutilated, against those who are still in the process, so it is better to continue to rub it so that there is no difference between them. And use the same argument for creditors. These are the arguments that have been turned to the end. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we support solutions to the proposed law in order to put an end to all outstanding procedures for the final decision of the court on discharge of obligations. We also agree that it is essential to save, in particular, those honest associates who are in this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we believe that it should never have happened, that laws such as the Financial Operations Act of 1999 were adopted in the previous century and that these puzzles, which were then created, do not actually have the right solutions. However, those who have caused a puzzling situation are not law-makers who try to eliminate certain injustices, but clearly those who have proposed the law at the time and those who have drafted it have proposed and adopted it. Regrettably, this mistake, which was then committed, has caused decades of injustice, and it is regrettable that those invited to resolve the situation have not responded adequately. Here we have in mind the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So let me remind you what this is really about when we refer this note to the government. These periods of puzzling decisions come back, with individual cycles and even in the 1990s, when we had a teaching hour or a learning period of entrepreneurship, there were different responses, different answers to this, different problems, including a mistake and a deliberate abuse. But all those who have not done so must not, cannot, and should not answer and bear the burden they now bear. It is therefore a problem caused by many learning to put their hopes in entrepreneurship and because the law was poorly prepared because it was not dealt with in a wide range of professions and stakeholders, it consists of necessarily bad consequences. And this has been discussed for several years. Let us recall why we should point out to the Government that this has also been discussed at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Internal Policy, which adopted the decisions calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis that there has been no doubt that it has come to the conclusion that it has proposed its solutions. So no one denied the injustices. There was no such thing as taking action and making appropriate proposals for a solution to the government. A group has been set up which has not come to an end by processing this proposal, because, as the drafter writes in the introduction, this has been interrupted because the Members have been overtaken by their proposal. If we didn't get ahead of them, we probably wouldn't be talking about it today, as we're not talking about the Library Act, where some of them said we were ahead of schedule, but they're still unemployed without the possibility of free volunteering. Well, the emergency was that someone rushed to discuss it at all. It is also true that if we think seriously about all the professional concerns, the situation is that we are many in dilemmas. On the one hand, undisputed injustice, undeniable suffering, and on the other hand, the professional challenge of what has been prepared. This could probably have been done differently if the Government had taken seriously the call to draw up an appropriate proposal to resolve this puzzle, which has not happened, and today, I agree with that, these weaknesses that the law carries with it cannot be fully remedied. I'm afraid the problem will remain for the future government. We are in our parliamentary group at this time, although we are aware of the professional problems of this law, on the side of justice. Or should such a law be stopped, the Constitutional Court will say if it is to. So we will support a solution that foresees righteousness.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I was taught that no one was to blame until proven otherwise, and that the better 50 unpunished perpetrators were too many than one convicted innocent in prison. The Law on the Financial Business of Companies has put this principle on the head and in effect has in fact caused our legal system not to care about all people who, after an innocent target of this law, were sentenced to life slavery because of transitional ad hoc solutions that turned out to be bad and who preferred to target the most likely majority of those people who were subjectively responsible, but forgot, as it were, about that minority, maybe only one, but never mind, he forgot about the innocent and put them together in the same bag. This is not fair, and it is also very far from what social democratic principles are. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have listened from the outset to the ideas and suggestions of colleague Matevž Frangež, not from a sceptic, with many questions, and finally the applicant himself admits that many legal issues are still open, but nevertheless our sense of guilt has led us forward. Above all, he led forward the proposaler, Matthew Frangež, who, irrespective of skepticism and the claims that he should wait and stop, brought the law to us, in the parliamentary bench, so I am also personally grateful to him, because if I did not do so myself, no one would do so in this mandate. Nevertheless, there are legal questions, and it will be interesting to see the reasoning in the Constitutional Judges, what will be the argument at the constitutional level, and probably the Constitutional Court will be the one that will be able to fully dispel all doubts about what is right and what is wrong. However, when we have considered both principles, on the one hand the principle of legal certainty and legal precision, on the other hand, the principle of fairness and the fact that, once again, no one can be punished until proven guilty, we have decided, in the Group of Social Democrats, to a large extent, that we will support the proposal of the law and thus open the way for many people to live again and again. After all, we are aware that everyone has the right to be paid for what he has done. But everyone also has the right to live again. In Slovenia, after all, we also know the Institute of Personal Bankruptcy, which allows it to start again, why then we would not allow something that is clear and, as already said by my colleague Rezman, is generally acknowledged to have caused many injustices. Social Democrats therefore, once again, in the vast majority, we hope that the law will be adopted. And if it is, we want all those who have been after the innocent target of the Financial Business Act to be able to live again; that they can prove that they have been on the right side, and that we hope they can also contribute more successfully than ever before, more actively than ever, more creative than ever to the growth and development of our economy. What we need is optimism, what we need is a boost, what we need is creativity. What colleague Frangež proposed is one of those windows that gives this creativity and optimism to breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Of course, this law will be fully supported, not just individually. The SDS Group will support this law with all its votes. Besides, I have to say the next thing about this marriage. Firstly, it is not only Mr Frangež, he is the first to sign, and our Members are also co-signers, Mr Vizjak in particular. Still, I have some very bad feelings about this marriage. The legislature was against it, the Ministry is against it, the Council of Justice is against it. Who, then, is in favor of this marriage? For this law we are only Members. Sounds like the vote's gonna be enough. But this does not mean that this law will bring positive solutions to all those who are affected and who are also on the balcony. For behind stands the Constitutional Court, which our country may at any time annul any law. I wonder for myself if it would not be advisable to repeal any of the laws that set them up, even though I will again be criticized. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have often received criticism, if you support nothing, you are always against, giving some laws that have financial consequences and do not bring solutions and so on. In short, we have been branded as nerds here in Parliament who are just negligent. That's not true. Not only this law, which comes from the SD branch, which therefore comes from the ruling party, not as a whole, but at least some of its members with the first-signed Mr Frange signed it, we will support it. Why would we support him? Simply for a basic reason, because it brings some kind of justice, otherwise we cannot say it. Someone gave a graphic comparison at the board meeting last time, and I'm going to do it again because it's a really good comparison. Ten and so years ago, a great injustice was committed. Now all our services, from the Ministry to the Council of Justice and so on, say: No, no, we must not change this because of the principle of equality before the law. He says. This is exactly what one of the co-conspirators on the committee said, as if 100 were sentenced to death, and 50 were already shot, and then they realized it was a mistake, and they said, but now it is necessary to shoot those 50 more because they will be in an equal position like the first 50 who have already been shot. No, it's not. The comparison is really great and fantastic, I couldn't have been better. It is our duty and our duty to prevent this. And that those wrongs that are, we try to appease, and that we try to prevent those wrongs that continue. After all, they were caused by the adoption of a law in this hall, which was in a slightly different form that year when the law was adopted. And I take you seriously that we will fully support the marriage and we hope that it will also be supported below. And let's hope that the Constitutional Court doesn't find itself and make another "darmary," as it's called, because then I really don't know if there's any need to change the law that sets them up. For the last time in this term, I will say just one more sentence. I am aware that I have sometimes been a harsh speaker for this speaker, I apologize if I have offended anyone, but I could still be in the next term, which I will not decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN AUDIVISUAL MEDIA SERVICES IN THE FIELD OF THE MODERN PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Jožef Školč, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The law that you now have before you in one small part sums up the contents that the media law had already had, which later did not come to a successful end. However, the contents of this law should also be adopted in this mandate for a simple reason, since the directive stipulates that this legislation should be harmonised by 2009 and with the excuses that there are different procedures in place in the National Assembly, we have so far achieved that no procedure has been initiated which could also lead to appropriate penalties for non-implementation of the directive. The Directive is important by its content because it sets out some content that protects children from all kinds of inappropriate content because it regulates advertising on these media, and it is also important because it provides quotas for these European productions. I don't think I need to explain this very widely again. The Committee reiterated the discussion that was under the Media Act, where I can say that it is certainly an accident that something else is not yet regulated in the field of media legislation, that it would probably risk a great deal to open up other content because the solutions expected by different groups are fundamentally different and are not uniform, while the content required by the directive is such that so far there have been no major problems with them. Our law, as proposed, is even less stringent to advertisers and to the media than the directive requires. The amendment tabled by the SDS Group and withdrawn by the SDS Group further sharpens these matters and would in fact lead to some additional problems for private televisions, but it would not undermine the directive in order to avoid misunderstandings, so it is our desire to support the law in the second reading. The Committee found that the amendments adopted at the end, where the penalties were harmonised, were not all things and that these technical amendments should be adopted there. I predict that if the law supports and eliminates this expected non-compliance with the directive, we will also propose that you support those harmonisation amendments and that in the last hours of the mandate, we will also conclude this chapter of media legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potrat, president for explanation of the board's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 27th emergency meeting on 6 October, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for an Audiovisual Media Services Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure, but did not confirm the College of Emergency Procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Article 37. No amendments were formally tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. The Committee was also provided with additional material, which I will not read from the report. Now, here's the thing about the work of the committee. Mr Jožef Školč, representative of the proposers, introduced a complementary explanation to the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that most of the comments made were taken into account in the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The representative of the State Council, Anton Peršak, said that there were no concerns on their part about the urgency of the bill. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to Articles 1, 32 and 39 and to the proposed amendments to the Committee. The debate focused on the subject matter of the law, the restrictions on the scope of television advertising and television sales and on administrative and inspection controls over the implementation of the law. The representative of the Government said that the draft law lays down the rights of legal and natural persons engaged in the provision of audiovisual media services. It transposes into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia a directive that introduces requirements and restrictions in the field of audiovisual media and its advertising provisions on commercial television are consistently respected. Some changes are also made regarding the protection of children and adolescents with regard to the dissemination of programme content of television programmes and audiovisual media services on demand. The penalties are the same as in the current Media Act. In the event of repeated infringements, it may be possible to revoke the authorisation of an APEC broadcaster. However, in the case of restrictions on the scope of television advertising and television sales, some felt that the scope of advertising for public television should be reduced as it plays a special role in the field of media and its funding is also specifically regulated. In order to carry out the public service, systematic funding is provided under the law of the prescribed RTV contribution, which also follows the specific programming requirements and restrictions imposed on public broadcasters. Such restrictions also include restrictions on advertising, so the overall equivalence of the volume of public broadcasting with commercial television would put the following in an unequal position. After discussion, the Committee adopted 31 amendments to the Committee. At the same time, all the amendments adopted were included in the text of the amended bill after the vote on all the articles of the law. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal is prepared. It includes, as it is said, the amendments adopted and the amended bill is an integral part of this report, at the same time recommending that four amendments be tabled, one on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party and three on the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups, in order to eliminate the disagreements, so this is a very technical step in the law. However, it has already been said that the amendment to Article 32 of the Law, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, has been withdrawn, so that we hope that such a law can be adopted at this meeting today, thus avoiding any penalties imposed by the Commission of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u165	Havela beautiful. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Mag has the floor. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Slovenia is already the last member of the European Union to have failed to implement the European Audiovisual Media Services Directive in its domestic legislation. Since the directive should have been transposed two years ago, although the deadline was extended until 15 August this year, Slovenia is facing a lawsuit and a fine of high sums. The former government could, however, prepare all necessary additions to media legislation during its term of office. Although the current government has made the necessary changes and has tried to regulate them within the Media Act, which has failed, the fact is that it has gone somewhat late, unaware of the situation that something might fail. That is why today we have a chance at a table only a technical law that needs to be passed due to the avoidance of penalties at risk, which are difficult and inadequate to risk in the current financial situation. The main objectives pursued by the proposal for a law are to comply with the acquis of the European Union, to regulate all audiovisual media services and to establish effective control over the implementation of legal provisions by transferring powers over the regulation of all audiovisual media services to the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications. The draft law is based on the following general principles: the protection of children and minors, the protection of vulnerable social groups, the freedom to disseminate audiovisual media services from other countries, the prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance, and the right to correction and response. The fact is that the media are an extremely important foundation for every democratically regulated society, as they provide information and dissemination as an important condition for social development. We therefore agree that it is of primary importance to ensure, through legislation, such conditions that will take account of the integrity of the Slovenian media space and, on the other hand, the needs, wishes and expectations of society, people as media users. We agree that partial marriage solutions bring nothing good and nothing more than unnecessary and dangerous lack of transparency, irreprehensibility and inconsistence. Aware that the risk of punishment at this time would be inappropriate, this law and some amendments will be supported. At the same time, we are aware that more will have to be done for the media field than ever before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The proposal for the Audiovisual Media Services Act in question seeks to regulate the field of such media only for the purpose of transposing the EU Directive in order to harmonise the laws and regulations of the EU Member States and to harmonise these laws. Regrettably, in the Slovenian National Party, we do not yet consider that this does not solve the issue of the irregularity of the situation and many issues in the media field or in media legislation, such as the harmful sale of media to virtual owners, the lack of supervision, the purpose of protecting public interest, the lack of transparency of ownership, inadequate legislation in general and so on. Not to mention the issues of financing programme requirements and constraints and so on. Since the first Public Gazette Act of 1994, a number of harmful decisions have been made, irregular legislation, which has resulted in such a catastrophic situation and the spread of the media field. We have seen many attempts to regulate the situation. Unfortunately, all of this failed and caused even greater confusion and harmful consequences in the media field. Let me mention only the failures of the Media Act and the fall of the Law on RTV Slovenia at the referendum, just because those proposals have never provided an integrated solution. They were previously unfinished and superficial. We can even argue that they have often been written on the skin of certain clients and lobbyists, but not to those to whom they are intended, this is a Slovenian user and a public interest. Then it is no wonder that we are witnessing the collapse of once successful media companies managed by all of us well-known persons or companies with one purpose, this is to obtain favourable high loans from state banks, then simply after the mafia to drain and re-analyze large sums of money, capital from the media to the unknown which accounts. Leaders of NLB and New KBM participated in all of these activities. It is the tens of millions of euros that have been well washed in such a way that even at the Anti-Money Laundering Office, even if they wanted to, they do not know where and how the trail for such millions has been lost. The fact that a large number of journalists and tax collectors go free of charge for the work they have already done on the road is not a matter of concern to anyone, but they are only collateral damage to the business where individuals have earned millions and millions in this way. By bankrupting and impoverishing the media, they then purchase businesses that are practically without capital, without employees, and behind them are political botts, whose purpose is to control the media, through them with supervised, guided information to create such a distorted public opinion that they can continue to remain on the political stage, and continue to protect those who robbed once successful capital-health media companies. A fine example is the recently discovered robbery of Del Revij or the experiment with the Diary of the Evening, where even the company from my town of Murska Sobota participated, that is, the Lan3, a company based in an apartment house, a settlement of houses that you cannot find, virtually without employees, with fictional capital, but with good political connections. In short, the situation is becoming anarchic, opaque, without any supervision and without adequate effective mechanisms of public interest protection. What surprises us the most in the Slovenian National Party is the relative passivity of a large number of journalists and media players, who were once able to organise as many as 570 signatures for information, warning the European public about the unsustainable state of the Slovenian media space. And now that the situation is ten times worse, when the basic existence of hundreds of journalists is threatened, when they are thrown on the road, no one is hurt and everything is quiet. In short, it's really weird. We will not support such a bill in the Slovenian National Party because many solutions are not fully regulated and will not create the desired normal conditions for the expected normal functioning of Slovenian media. And when every day we receive other notices and alarms about the harmfulness of such regulation as comes with RTV Slovenia, then we are fully convinced that this is a completely wrong step towards settling this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! After four years of media devastation, the expectations of the public, following the immediate redefinition of media laws at the beginning of this mandate, were rightly high. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we took the view, when drafting laws, that the future image of the media space should be developed in a wider circle, especially with a greater sense of creating conditions for autonomous journalism and achieving public interest after information. The first steps in the creation of new media laws were encouraging. The Ministry appointed a wide range of experts for the preparation of the baselines, which was totally contrary to the practice of drafting media legislation in the previous mandate. But those invited to participate had diametrically opposite positions in a number of points. Therefore, some of the individual solutions have distanced themselves, and when a lobbyist struggle has been sullied on the proposal for a media law, fate has been sealed on the basis of a good proposal. Due to the fall of the media bill, in addition to important substantive solutions, we have not introduced the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. The deadline available to Member States for transposition into their national legal system was 19 December 2009, and Slovenia is the only country in the European Union that has not yet done so. The proposal for an audiovisual media service law is therefore understood as an emergency exit before the sentence expires. In this context, it is worth stressing that the Directive does not contain only some guidelines which the State has taken into account at its own discretion, as has been heard at the meeting of the home working body, but sets out the objectives which the Member State had to achieve. Thus, only those things which must be recorded in accordance with the current Directive are mentioned in the draft law. Unfortunately, it does not regulate the distorted image of life or, rather, the life of the media in Slovenia. The legal conditions for a more appropriate and urgent enforcement of journalistic autonomy, which is understood by the Social Democrats as the participation of journalists in decision-making processes, do not create a more sustainable and stable source of public co-financing for media of particular importance. It is therefore not guaranteed what the Social Democrats believe should be, but these are not the objectives of this legal matter, which governs only a narrower part of the problem. Therefore, any comparison with the failed proposal for a media law aimed at establishing a comprehensive framework for the functioning of the media in our country makes no sense. Regardless of the modest ambitions of the marriage text, the Social Democrats welcome the provisions which, to a greater extent than ever, protect children and adolescents from harmful media content. They require the creation of product advertising rules at the time of the delivery of the children's programme and increase the demand for European audiovisual works and part of European independent producers. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we understand the draft law on audiovisual media services as the last attempt by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to avoid punishment and nothing more than that. As we are aware of what an additional few million burdens of the state budget would entail in these uncertain circumstances, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rudolf Petan will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are happy that the devastation in the media landscape has finally ended and that everything is fine. But we do not understand why there are so many contradictions to this law, which has also proved to be on the parental committee. I would like to say that the Slovenian Democratic Party has been opposed to this law since the beginning. This opposition, of course, also appeared on the parental committee when virtually everyone had a different opinion on this, not only because of the commas and dots, but also because of the substantive issues. The matter has also been complicated by the adoption of the amendment to Article 32, which appears to be essential in the whole case where the media cake is being dealt with. Nor did the Slovenian Democratic Party take part in the adoption of this amendment. We were aware, however, that this was one of those articles that most grieved all the things that this law refers to. And since we wanted this article to somehow prepare itself or obtain such content as could be acceptable to the general public with compressed teeth, we have, of course, tabled an amendment, but only because the article is open. And then, of course, a few letters came in, some quite sharp, and we got the feeling that this fracturing across this media landscape just didn't end and that the proposal of this law continued. However, we have decided that this amendment will still be withdrawn, that it might not be the cause of any misunderstanding, but that Article 32 remains as it was and that the problem is very limited in this Article 32. Let me read part of a statement from one of the members of the committee who said: 'It is understandable that the European Commission is losing patience with us because we are the last country in the European Union that has not accepted it. On the other hand, of course, this is no reason to adopt a bad or a perfect marriage. And what is the problem with this marriage? The problem is, of course, that it solves or attempts to solve only one part of Slovenian media space in non-coordination with other problems that occur in this space. The problem is that it further liberalises television, thus increasing advertising on public television, enables so-called product placement or placement of advertising products in public television programmes and allows for the most liberal amount of advertising on commercial televisions, although of course the directive merely sets a ceiling and, of course, allows individual countries to further limit matters. In short, it allows for the most liberal version of the European directive, but it is clear that the state should take into account the specificity of a particular media space and the fact that in this Slovenian media area, television is already the most powerful factor, significantly stronger than any other European Union country, that it is to eat and destroy all the factors in the market for printed media, radio media and Internet media and that we are dealing within the television market with two actors who are actually completely in control of this television market and when it comes to advertising if we exclude the subscription, it is, of course, one actor who controls 78% of the television advertising market. From this point of view, therefore, additional liberalisation is incomprehensible, leading to more comparisons with countries such as Macedonia or Bulgaria, while countries such as Italy have a 35% share of television advertising, although we have Italy for a TV-unregulated country and we are talking about the liberalisation of television." So we have twice as many. And one more thing. data on the monitoring of the quantity of these parts. The agency monitored all three public TV programs – TV 3, RTS, Your channel, VTV, Net TV, but missing commercial POP TV, A Channel and POP Brio. How is this possible, how did this happen? Of course, then we can ask ourselves if we are not still breaking through this media space, and also because of this, the Slovenian Democratic Party opposes this law, we will not support it, and we are withdrawing our amendment because we believe that we would not solve anything but would not want to further complicate it. So we are opposed to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar will move forward on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u174	Your Honor! This is the law that will fill Brussels, but it will leave a hungry Slovenia. Why this has happened, we all know, and those who have done so must take responsibility. The responsibility that lobbyists or interests were stronger than professions and that politics scared them. It is the responsibility of the Slovenian media to remain largely unregulated in order to maintain unregulated co-financing of the media, the right to reply and correction, the limitation and regulation of ownership or concentration. In order to remain unregulated or incompletely recorded autonomy of journalists or media outlets, the unregulated more robust protection of children and minors, the unregulated better regulation of everything from advertising to the end of musical quotas, because, as we know, it was all resolved by one law that frightened him. Of course, we will not be better equipped to co-finance the media with which no one is satisfied. Satisfied in a way to enable stable, long-term and more generous, literally more generous, co-financing than now. For the print and electronic media, we will not get concessions for specific programmes in the public interest, we will not get multi-annual programming and project funding, nor an additional one-year period, nor will it be possible for some media in business difficulties to be supported, nor will there be clearly defined aid for media reporting, particularly yesterday, when we discussed the Ombudsman's report, and not yet sufficiently aware and sensitive, not only those who create the media, but also those who participate. In short, the right to correction and response, with which almost 100% of the media themselves have been harmonised, will not be regulated. The regulation of ownership or concentration of the media will give rise to the possibility that those without money who are so-called straw collectors and who don't even know the media can enter their property. This deficiency will obviously have to fix the future. The future, which I hope and want, will correct these now emerging flaws with the strongest and most eloquent communication with creators and media professionals and users. They must say, as they already have, what kind of media landscape they want and what the case is for Slovenia, and then the policy should not be afraid of it. Because in this case she will remain disabled, in this case they will also have to be satisfied with the crutch in the future. In fact, we do not like to be satisfied with the crutch, some we feel that some technical, pragmatic things need to be arranged, while others are more loyal to the principled view that things need to be regulated in an integrated, rather than partial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Guido Kres will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! After three months we are re-examined by the media law, but not by a comprehensive media law, but by a partial media law, namely the TV media law and their services. The proposed law on audiovisual media services is the result of the month of July of the rejected media law, around which much has already been said and written, so I will not specifically define the law that has been rejected, but will briefly take the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group towards it. In our parliamentary group, we opposed the media law mainly because the media areas were too restrictive. He introduced the media world, revived the right to correction, reduced the concentration notification limit and others. Of course, we have seen in the law some good solutions that would significantly help improve the situation of Slovenian media, especially those at local level. We also did not oppose the provisions that summarized the European Audiovisual Media Services Directive. However, the bad provisions have prevailed over the good, so our parliamentary group has not supported the media law in such a form. To our great surprise, this was also done by several members of the ruling party, which resulted in the rejection of the law at first reading, which led to the preparation of the technical law on audiovisual media services, which is before us today. This law is essentially about harmonising the Slovenian acquis with the European Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which expired on 15 August this year, which means that there is already a real risk of a European Commission action against Slovenia for non-compliance with European Union law. The bill therefore provides for better protection of children and minors in the dissemination of programme content of television programmes, an increase in the share of European production, changes in advertising and others. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we had a good look at the proposed law, we also compared it with the rejected media law, and we found that some of the provisions, particularly in the regulation of television advertising on public television, had changed slightly. We have therefore also proposed an amendment to reduce advertising on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which we believe will have a positive impact on viewers and viewers accompanying public television programmes. It should be understood that RTV’s primary income is the contribution paid by all households, so it would be totally illogical to see the volume of RTV advertising equivalent to the volume of commercial television advertising. The proposal received the majority support of the members of the Committee and was adopted as an amendment to the Committee. In order to harmonise the criminal provisions with the amendment adopted, we have also tabled an amendment to Article 43, but more on this later on on on the debate on the amendments. Today, all MPs from the RTV management received negative reactions to this amendment, if this is a major loss of advertising revenues, even more so that it is a political pressure on a public institution that will no longer be able to perform public service due to such regulation. Let me just remind you that a very similar arrangement was included in July's rejected media law, but there were no comments from the management of the public Radio Television. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are not servants of the lobby. This is not a popular pre-election move, as RTV says, but we just want to point out that there are ads, not just on TV, just too many, and this turns a lot of viewers away from watching TV. Dear Members, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the proposed regulation is not systematic and to some extent we join the opinions of some experts who say that this bill does not deal with the essential issues of Slovenian media, but we are simply faced with the fact that, in the event of non-admission of the bill, the European Commission's action and, consequently, the punishment of the Court of Justice of the European Union are threatening us, which we cannot allow as a responsible party. Therefore, we will not oppose the adoption of the proposed Audiovisual Media Services Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. Ten. In 2011, and I remind you that the amendment to Article 32 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members has been withdrawn, so we will discuss and decide only on the amendments to Articles 36, 43, 44 and 45. I am putting to the debate Article 36 with the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the LDS – the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the debate on Article 43. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Nobody wants a word, so I am closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 44. The amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the LDS – the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Mag. Majda Potrat, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know you have heard what has already been said in the Committee's report, but if you've paid attention to the amendment review, you've seen that these are really just editorial amendments that are necessary to make the text more coherent. It's not a matter of any kind of substantive intervention. By withdrawing the amendment to Article 32, the required number, i.e. less than 10% of the amendments adopted, has also been reached, so that it is also possible, with the support of these amendments, to deal with and conclude a third law. I expect at least those who have stumbled the media law to find that this bill is worthy of support and that this is also a contribution to preventing Slovenia from paying the penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you. Then does anyone else want to discuss article 44 and the amendment? I can't see. Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. I do not think any article is worthy of support, nor does this article 44. This law, and also Article 44, if you wish, are just proof that in such a time period, when we are just waiting for the President of the State to declare the dissolution of Parliament, he saves, deals with, and tries to adopt such an important law that he has made such a division in the media landscape, if I use this graphic term, he must not do so. If we knew, then we could have done it a little earlier, say at least two months earlier. We were all about to know what was ahead of us, and to do so much damage. [[…]] I have already told you where the biggest differences are when it comes to sharing an advertising cake, when it comes to controlling a huge gap, when everything except some are controlled – now I don't know whether first-class or second-class to not offend anyone where they belong – but some are always forgiven, others are always there. That's not working. After all, I don't care who they've been controlling, I need control. However, it must apply to all. But now I am not saying what has grown in my mind, but what people have said at the consideration of this marriage. And when we heard that, then we really can't say anything but that it's very irresponsible to accept such a significant marriage in this time period if we weren't able to adopt it, for example, six months ago. But the thing is, in time distress, you accept what you would never accept, because some people are not even paying attention anymore, and others think it doesn't matter, because someone else is going to come and try to solve it, maybe they won't even come with me. Therefore, no article is worthy of support because, as a whole, the totality of all articles causes great problems, causes great injustices, and virtually no one is satisfied with it. I'm sure even the proponent isn't entirely satisfied with what's at stake. That is why, of course, I will not personally support this article or the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u181	Reploco wants mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that I have listened even to a public presentation of the opinion under the media law, I have also closely followed all the debates under this law and that I have seen the consideration of this law, I would point to some things, however. The Audiovisual Media Services Act was introduced on 28 July 2011, which is immediately following the failure of the media law to obtain confirmation that it is suitable for further consideration. At the time of the hearing, we had not yet had this finger called the dissolution of Parliament. But it's been a punishment all along. Don't think I'm glad we're gonna have to adopt this marriage the way they accept it. I supported the previous law myself, the one who was rejected after the first reading, because he was better at solving things. However, the debate did not raise some of the issues that have suddenly proved to be problematic here. And it surprises me that we have such a short memory that we do not see the problems that were the most stressed and present in the public presentation at the time. At that time, I think there were close to 26 or 36 performances at the public presentation, which concerned only Radio 1 and the concentration and related issues to Radio 1. Some other questions have not been touched at all. The second thing that bothers me, however, would only suggest that if I were a member of the SDS, I would actually be satisfied at this point, because in this way it remains in force in the Media Act, which the SDS put through the procedure during the previous term. However, there was no law that was significantly better. And that's what my colleague Sam Bevk was talking about when he was talking about breaking the media legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Patience tells me to say certain things that you all know again. In this time crisis that we are talking about today, we have come up with many reasons. The vast majority of the things that this National Assembly could arrange, but they are not, ended with a vote on 15 July this year. On 28 July of this year, this law came to light, and again some may be completely disappointed that it is technical and non-ambitious. Nor can it be different, for imagine that we would reopen all possible questions, which are fourteen days before the division of this space, various interests and also the Slovenian public. I don't mean that all the other questions weren't important. In fact, the debate on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport has heated the old dilemmas. In most cases, ZAMS did not face the solutions except in the part where the amendment was tabled by the SLS Group, and it also succeeded and limited advertising on public RTV. Public RTV did not make it happy, you can believe that, of course, this is not contrary to the directive, and from this point of view it is better to move such a law forward than not to go any further. That this is very difficult, Mr Petan, you will also have to agree because you have tried with someone, I will say, a very modest complement and because of the pressures that your colleagues and colleagues say they have been implementing on your group, even very quickly, they would have deviated from this solution, which, as I said before, would have been technically permissible, but would have caused some problems again. Significantly, at the moment, the National Assembly is in fact faced with a simple task – to accept the guidance it must take, with which part of the problems that are in the media is certainly better and more precisely regulated, without prejudice to any ideology, without prejudice to any interests other than financial, these different people who manage the media in any way or other. It is too late to cry now about what else could be solved, for this government in some way did not allow the National Assembly to arrange, that is, about concentration, about corrections, about all of these things, about which Ambassador Maja Shirca Ravnikar spoke quite precisely. Therefore, I only suggest that you take these things as a kind of welcome correctional test so that the next Minister of Culture and the State Budget will not face a certain penalty for failing to implement this Directive. If anyone is particularly pleased to look at this correspondence between the Government and the people in Brussels, you will see that we are asking them to wait for this procedure they want to initiate if the National Assembly is to decide today. Of course, when he decides today, he will either close this procedure – I hope so – or open it wide open. This is no particular reason for us to understand each other, for us to accept this solution here. More importantly, I would like to take part in a discussion in which we can talk about other things that need to be changed in the field of the media. But that's really the time. And I hope that these explanations about who contributed to the delay are enough to reach this vote, which preserves, as has already been said, the solutions of the media law, which I, as you will remember, have strongly opposed, and today I must swallow the saliva to remain those solutions that were disputed at the time of adoption and all the time. And I hope that you will also eat this dumpling, and that you will see that this is not really the area where we would tighten the muscles, but where we actually squander our money, which is little for culture and even less for the media. A few million fines basically means manoeuvring for a few years of money to support the media.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. I also agree that this law is far from being for muscle tightening, at least as far as we are concerned, but we have also proved this in the debate on the committee, when we were not among those who would be loud at all, perhaps the most. So we're aware of that. But why did we withdraw from this amendment, but I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members. This Article 32 has just stirred up the public and we wanted the article to be open. However, I admit that we may have gone a little wrong or awkwardly, because we expected that the proposals would be some amendments that we would be willing to support, of course, but they were not. And if, of course, our amendment was problematic, then we were willing to withdraw it and withdraw it. But I'll come back to that later. Now there's just one more thing. In Slovenia, it is very modern to respond to pressure from the European Union. You will recall that we have done something like this in this Chamber once before, and then we have accepted a Spanish compromise, which later turned out not to be necessary at all. This year, we wanted to adopt a law on technical characteristics to put an end to the guarantee of technical products, and it turned out that this is not true at all! And it was promised to the prime minister and said it had to be so. So that's one such excuse. As far as those heavy hands are concerned. On July 28th, it was said that another law had fallen. Yeah, can we ask ourselves why it was necessary for the marriage to fall? [[adverts from benches]] Well, this marriage is because one of the other failed earlier because it was not possible to file because the 27th was supposed to have fallen. In that context. Because otherwise we could have invested before, five months ago, it wasn't possible because you said that the marriage fell. That is to say, that marriage was not the same as being acceptable. I'm not accusing anyone, but the law has fallen, just so that the charges don't fly on our account now when we're talking about time distress. What's changed? Among other things, Article 32 has changed, which is problematic for many. And one more thing. This, however, would have been said by the distinguished Mrs Patrati when she said that we could be happy in the SDS that the previous law would remain. No, that's not our approach. That's not our approach. This does not mean that we are happy if something is ours but if something is bad, or if some thing was accepted before, I don't know, don't hold me to the word, three, four, five years when there was a different situation that we couldn't change today. And that is so that we do not dig in, if necessary, proves that we have resigned from the amendment. It's about getting some quality, something that can get better. Something that was good last year is not necessarily as good in this situation as it is now, at this point in time. It could be something a little different or something completely different. Things are changing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u187	Mr. Petan, you've entered a general debate on the law. Let's go back to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr President, I agree with you, but others have spoken in general, and I may have been carried away. I think I said what was essential. Article 44 is exactly the same as those amendments that are. So, of course, I won't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 44? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 45 and the amendment of SD and LDS to this Article. Anybody want a word? No one wants to, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE MULTILATERAL VALUE LAW BY THE COMPLETE PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Mateja Vraničar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u190	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new law was drafted by the Government due to the need to harmonise the applicable law with the experiences and solutions of the first experimental valuation of properties carried out at the end of last year. It is known that in the last quarter of 2010 all real estate owners were notified of the experimentally calculated value of their real estate determined by the mass valuation system. The owners received a million 98 thousand 349 notifications on the experimental calculation of the value of about 6 million immovables. By 25 January this year, owners made comments on some 550 000 properties, representing 9% of all valued properties. Of these, one third of the comments were related to value, 20 % to ownership and the other were related to real estate data. With regard to valuation, the majority of comments related to the valuation of agricultural and forestry land, more than 60 per cent, and to housing properties of approximately 15 per cent. The general evaluation and the experimental calculation of the value showed the need for certain changes to the law itself. It has been shown that it is not possible to uniquely bind models to types of real estate, but that it is often necessary to evaluate one property consisting of different types of use, such as combinations of business and residential use, to take into account several different models that need to be linked to the type of use and not to the type of real estate. In order to rationalise the experimental calculation process, the amendment of Article 10 proposes to delete the obligation to develop model proposals across municipalities, as these will take a look at the geodetic administration. It is also proposed that, for property owned by the municipality or by the State, a notice of attribution of value should not be sent to the owner, but that the owner should be given an electronic insight into the results of the experimental calculation. It is proposed that, in the process of determining the general market value of a particular real estate, it does not respond to the comments submitted to the individual owner who submits the reply, but after the final examination of the comments on the experimental calculation and final determination of the valuation models, it shall be sent back to all owners. The final calculation notice can no longer be contested and the value can only be affected by the change in real estate data in the real estate register. In carrying out the general evaluation, it has been shown that the basis for recording the price and rent data in the real estate market records does not permit systematic acquisition of the prices of new buildings. Even more flawed, however, are registered rents. This deficiency is addressed by an amendment to Article 22 of the Law. However, the amendments to Article 25 make it more clear that customer data are not public. All data on which access may be refused in accordance with public information rules shall also be excluded from the public view, otherwise the register of the real estate market shall be public. Your Honor! With regard to this regulation, the Government shall endeavour to implement it as soon as possible, so that the final value of the property can be determined not later than 1 January of the following year, when the data are urgently needed for the entry into force of two social security laws, namely the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits. Finally, the mass valuation of real estate should be completed as soon as possible also as a result of the provisions of the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into a space which refers to the values of real estates identified in the mass valuation system in the assessment methodology for individual real estates. All this information or information points to the broader importance of mass evaluation, such as the tax on which the highest number of speeches were made in the public domain, and we suggest that you support the law in both the second and the third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Chappich to explain the views of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 32nd session. Ten. In 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held on 9. 9. 2011 decided that the proposed law should be dealt with in a simplified procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on the provisions of Articles 2, 3, 4, 7 and 9 of the proposal. The comments are included in the Committee's proposals for amendments prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which were made by the Committee in the context of additional work materials, together with the amendments tabled by the Zares Group to Articles 7 and 9 and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to Articles 1, 2, 9 and 10 of the text. The Committee also received opinions from the Municipality of Brežica, the Municipality of Lithuania and the Municipality of Maribor. It follows from the introduction of the explanation of the articles and the newly introduced solutions presented at the meeting of the Committee by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance that the text is adapted to the results of the practice shown on the basis of the implementation of the first experimental valuation of real estate. This is in the context of the solutions presented in the first place to introduce precision in the determination of valuation models, taking into account that individual valuation is not limited to the use of one model, as it includes a certain property with different uses with a parallel purpose of valuation and simplification of the evaluation process itself. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed that the comments in the proposals of the amendments of the Home Committee were consistently taken into account. At the time of consideration of the individual articles, the debate focused on the question of the timeliness of the simultaneous treatment of the law concerned by the tax law laid down by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, or on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1, with the emphasis on the solution that private-owned property is not subject to taxation of public economic infrastructure in the management of municipalities. However, according to the stated position of the workings of the SD Group, which did not support the amendments, the basic text of the proposal was already adopted, unrelated to the Real Estate Tax Act, mainly because the law in question provides for a basic review of the real estate base as a basis for determining the price of real estate in accordance with actual market developments. In the opinion of the Government, which has not expressed its support to the amendment, the answer to the question is whether individual types of property, either due to the presence of public economic infrastructure or other, will be less taxed or even exempt from tax in the exclusive domain of the tax law. At the hearing, the members of the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 7, 9 and 11 of the proposal. In doing so, the Committee, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified to the amendments tabled by qualified applicants and adopted the amendments of the Zares Group to Articles 7 and 9 of the legislative proposal and of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 9 of the legislative proposal. However, the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 1, 2 and 10 were not adopted. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which is an integral part of this report and which you have received, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before the beginning of the mass valuation of real estate, real real estate data had to be obtained in Slovenia. The following was the first inventory of properties, the data obtained had to be processed, the real estate register was established and the data in the building cadastral and both links with the population register were coordinated. It would be highly recommended that institutions dealing in any way with real estate be connected to a single real estate system. The purpose of the real estate market register is to systematically record and ensure the availability of data on real estate market transactions. The publicly available data on the real estate transaction prices and rentals realised in each market economy have a significant impact on the equal information of all active and potential players in the real estate market. This contributes to greater market transparency and to the equalisation of competitive conditions and a higher level of competition on the market. On the basis of the above, the first experimental calculation of the value of real estates was carried out and several observations were made. The main reasons for the adoption of the proposed novelty are the need to clearly determine how valuation models are based on individual real estate, the need to systemically regulate the recording of the real estate market, whose transactions are subject to value added tax, the need to regulate the system, the recording of rental contracts for buildings and their parts, and the need to regulate the mass charging of costs, additional expenditure and mass property valuation services. At this point, the Slovenian National Party would point out three problems which the models in question do not take into account in the mass valuation of real estate. The definition of the third paragraph of Article 7 refers to the formation of valuation models for land according to the intended use of land, except for established land for which models are designed according to the actual use of land. First, we would warn the legislator that information on land use is already publicly available in individual municipalities. The problem with this Article is that the Geodetic Authority keeps a record of actual land use. What does that mean? This means that the Geodetic Authority can carry out a real-use real-estate valuation, e.g. a residential building on land which, by purpose, can be categorised as an agricultural or forest land where construction is not possible. This means that the state has thus evaluated black construction. The last real estate actually reaches a value of nothing on the market because it is a black building, and therefore the valuation of this property should be carried out only for the land without the building. It is clear from this that the Geodetic Authority does not link actual land use to intended use according to plan, which today poses a major problem. In the novel, we see the following lack of public information. In cases where the identification marks were public, it could also be possible to disclose from these codes information on the parties, which are not public under the law in force and which are contrary to the Public Information Access Act. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the amendment of the law will not achieve its objectives. It is only a virtual novelty that is supposed to make it feel that there are significant developments in the area of real estate valuation, which will ultimately contribute to real property values.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Good-bye to the Secretary of State and to you, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we are talking about the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which we support in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're talking about tools, about the system, about the method, not about the funds collected, or the tax. We have already tried this in Slovenia, we have experienced quite a lot of constructive proposals and changes. And all due respect is also worth what a colleague from the Slovenian National Party said before me. There are always, and everywhere, shortcomings, reserves, or specific cases that need to be rectified and remedied. That basic law entered into force at the end of May 2006 and gave jurisdiction over the implementation of the system to the Ministry of the Environment and Space on the basis of an analysis of the behaviour of the real estate market, using data on real estate obtained from the geodetic inventory of real estate in 2009-2010. Therefore, in the context of the 2010 General Evaluation, the competent service produced valuation models for all types of real estate and in the autumn of 2010 in accordance with the procedure laid down by law, following the verification of model proposals with municipalities, carried out the first experimental calculation of the general market value for all real estates recorded in the Real Estate Register. However, in these general valuation procedures and in the course of the development of the value-adding procedure, it has been estimated by the competent services that in fact, in many cases the general market value of each property cannot be determined by a single valuation model, since real estates are often made up of parts which have a different purpose and, in particular, a different actual use. In such cases, several models had to be used for evaluation. Therefore, it also sought and found a solution whereby valuation models were used for individual parts of the property, for example, separately for the land and separately for the building, and the value of the property was determined as the sum of the value of the individual parts. The procedure proved to be more appropriate, at least for most cases. In order to regulate the appropriate legal basis for its implementation, it is necessary to amend certain provisions of the law. The main reasons for the proposed amendment to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate are as follows. The need to clearly determine how valuation models can be used in relation to individual real estate or whether multiple models can be used for one property. Furthermore, of course, consideration should be given to and the need for a system-wide regulation of the recording of the real estate market, the transactions of which are subject to the value added tax. In practice, it has also proved necessary to regulate the system of recording rental conditions either for the whole building or for individual parts of buildings and, of course, life also requires the need to regulate the possibility of charging costs, additional products and mass property valuation services. But everyday life also shows that the model of mass valuation of real estates is fundamentally correct, and many minor shortcomings, details that will need to be regulated in another way during life, in order for the system to act as a logical, coherent and reasonable whole. It is also important that the changes are not as much a policy as a profession and that the reform of this law has nothing to do with the new taxes. First of all, it is necessary to keep an accurate record and only later can it be possible to deal with further procedures or the use of these records for other, mainly tax purposes. The proposed amendment of the law will be supported in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Villa Trofenik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! When considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the mass valuation of real estate, it should be recalled that the past 12 years or more of the three mandates have passed since we started with a project to update the recording of real estate for which we have spent the most extensive foreign credit, and five years since the adoption of the Law on the mass valuation of real estate, we still have no result or product that would enable us to achieve a fundamental objective in all other accompanying needs, namely the introduction of a tax on real estate for which there has never been such a need as in those times of crisis, and the need for its introduction is also pointed out to the competent from abroad. Finally, this tax would allow for the necessary quality reform of the funding of municipalities. I think that, when considering this legal change, we should at least symbolically ask for responsibility. Despite the fact that it is definitely a demanding and extensive project, however, it is absolutely too much for 12 years not to talk about spent resources that we have no review whatsoever. All four fundamental reasons for amending the law cited by the applicants are correct, but they were predictable and had to be taken into account in the drafting of the law five or six years ago. There is no justification for the late conclusion that there is a need to evaluate individual parts of the property in multi-purpose real estate and separate valuation of land from real estate, that we are not talking about any other perceived deficiencies in the area of agricultural and forestry land at all. These and other shortcomings have in fact been identified after a number of long-term debates during a failed debate or the drafting of a real estate tax law, when it has been found that there is no appropriate instrument for quality law available, even more so that, under the current law, the prepared base does not allow for the pursuit of another but equally important objective, an effective spatial policy. We would expect the shortcomings to be seen during the evaluation itself and therefore the necessary legal changes have been proposed before. There is no doubt that, although late amendments to the law are necessary, the question is whether they are sufficient and appropriate and are effective enough to achieve the objectives set. It is, among other things, the appropriateness or inadequacy of the proposed amendment on the abolition of the public classification of valuation models and value zone maps and the power to determine by means of a sub-legislative act the necessary data on real estates maintained in the real estate register and thus far represented legal material. While we expect the project to be able to lead to the first stage of the project after 12 years, we will support the proposed amendments to the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SD Group, Ms Breda Pečan will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support amendments to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. The main reasons for this are: the need to clearly determine how valuation models can be used in relation to individual real estate or the possibility of using multiple real estate models – this is, of course, those properties that have double or even more than double use –; the need for a system-wide recording of the real estate market, whose transactions are subject to value added tax calculation; the need to regulate the system of recording rental contracts for buildings and parts of buildings and the need to regulate the possibility of charging the costs of additional products and mass property valuation services. In our Group of Members, we believe that the problem of the valuation of real estates, which occur mainly in the rental market, has proved to be particular. These are, in particular, some types of commercial real estate, as well as certain categories of dwellings for which the number of transactions is relatively small and rental data are not systematically recorded in the real estate market records, since in July 2008 the apartment owner’s obligation to apply to the competent registrar within 30 days of the conclusion of the rental contract was lifted in July 2008. Hey, buddy, could you keep it down, please? The obligation of the tenant of dwellings has been deleted with a view to reducing administrative barriers, but with the wrong assumption that this record is duplicating or keeping with the tax authority. Such justifications are incorrect, since there is no obligation under tax rules to record rental contracts either for business or for residential property. The amendment to Article 22 therefore proposes the establishment of a single register of rental contracts within the property market register to which lessors should report, no later than 15 days after the month in which the contract was concluded. It is specified to report the conclusion of a contract, on the parties to the contract, on the amount of the rent and on certain real estate information that is subject to rental, and also on the occasion of a change in the contract client, i.e. the lessee, and in the event of a change in the amount of the rent. One new law provides that mass valuation data for public purposes can be obtained free of charge and that data, products and services with value added can be properly charged to the contracting authority by covering the costs associated with the preparation of products or services. By the way, let me say that many shortcomings have been identified at a time when real estate owners were informed of the results of the experimental mass valuation, but there have also been quite a number of errors or problems revealed even when we were preparing the real estate tax law, when this preparation was unsuccessful, but it revealed many shortcomings in mass valuation, and it can therefore be found with satisfaction that the real estate tax law has made some significant improvements that will help us to have, not only because of the real estate tax but also because of a variety of other needs, the mass valuation of real estates as a basis both for determining the market price of real estate and for monitoring the real estate value, and that we will be able, once the real estate tax has been introduced, to determine the real estate tax as a basis, to determine the real estate market price as a basis, to determine the real estate price, to monitor the real estate value by way that we can, not only because of the real estate tax, but also because of the whole type of the real estate tax, to determine the real estate tax as a very real estate tax, which we will even the real estate category that we will not treat as a real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rado Likar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The main reasons for adopting the proposed amendment are, according to the proposaler, the following. The need to clearly determine how valuation models can be used in relation to individual real estate or whether multiple models can be used for one property. Furthermore, the need for a system-wide regime for the recording of the real estate market, whose transactions are subject to VAT accounting. The need to regulate the system of recording rental contracts for buildings and parts of buildings and the need to regulate the possibility of charging the costs of additional products and mass property valuation services. At the examination of the law on the home labour body, we proposed an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, proposing that private-owned real estates that involve public economic infrastructure, which is managed by municipalities, should not be taxed, since this is a large number of unregulated formal relations from the past, and that private individuals no longer use them. These lands have so far not been burdened by cadastral income. Moreover, these are properties whose properties are largely unregulated, although the municipalities are intensively solving this problem, but financial and human resources do not allow them to buy such land more quickly. Unfortunately, the amendment has not been adopted, and despite the non-adoption of the amendment, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u204	Your Honor! The multiple valuation of real estate is not in any way easy to do, and despite its preparation it was not possible to expect things to go smoothly. However, shortcomings, responses, comments, objections quickly exceeded the expected scope and also justified public dissatisfaction. Thus, on the basis of experience and practice, the purpose of the law on the mass valuation of real estate is not surprising. The applicant shall state the following main reasons, and I will repeat them. The need to clearly determine the method of using valuation models; the need for a system-wide recording of the real estate market, whose transactions are subject to VAT accounting; the need to regulate the system of recording rental contracts for buildings and parts of buildings; and the arrangements for charging the costs of additional real estate products and services. Indeed, the Group of Ambassadors will support the proposed solutions and, after all, have actively participated with the amendments themselves in the preparation. It is also important to consider the obligation to notify all real estate owners of the final value calculated after the valuation models have been put in place. The new value estimates are also important in terms of the changed economic situation, as they will be more realistic and in particular in line with market orientation. Finally, the regulation of real estate databases is also necessary for the proper execution of the long-predicted and deferred property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear President of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for additions and amendments to the law before us is prepared, according to the applicant, because of the need to harmonise the law with the experiences and solutions of the first trial evaluation. For practice has shown that some solutions in marriage are not the best and need to be upgraded. A good year ago, the Slovenian public was upset by the reports of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia on the experimental calculation of the value of real estate. The Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia has received comments and proposals for more than 100,000 properties, which the applicant considers to be an average good result. Comments and proposals were mostly about the value of real estate or their ownership. It is clear that the Property Valuation Act is primarily the basis for a property tax, which at least two mandates have not been proposed by anyone. However, it is also clear that the whole process so far has already caused great costs, for which there is a great question, when and whether they will be reimbursed at all. The financial impact of the collected taxes on the costs of establishing and operating the system is questionable. But the law will be the basis for many other things, especially in the area of social protection. The use of the results of this system is even more sensitive to the issue of social justice. In fact, in direct taxation of property itself – as we know – because of reckless solutions, once in this mandate, he was in a drawer – as well as taking into account the value of property in the social field. Indeed, each property has its value, including the creation of a real estate record and its value, is likely to be of great importance to the country. However, when introducing such or other solutions, we might have to ask ourselves what their implementation means in practice. I'm not just talking about this law, let's make it our freshest example. In this place, I could give you a few solutions that bring huge costs and red tape, but no or no big effect. Then we wonder why the Slovenian economy is uncompetitive and the public administration is so expensive. If I go back to the law. We will not oppose him in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because the process of evaluation is ongoing and, given the perceived problems in practice, improvements are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Proposal for a New Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. At the outset, I must say that in the DeSUS Group we believe that this bill should be dealt with together with the real estate tax law. Unfortunately, this is not possible, since no one has yet been able to specifically bite into this sour apple, so today we are just devoting ourselves to mass evaluation. In carrying out the experimental valuation of real estate on the basis of the notifications given, a significant number of owners were dissatisfied with the valuation of the value of the property and, therefore, many objections were raised on the Geodetic Board of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the comments given, the correctness of the evaluation model was then verified and more appropriate evaluation models were developed in parallel. According to the applicants, a large number of additional comments are not expected in the future, as the valuation method is expected to improve and demonstrate the real value of real estate on the basis of the comments received. The proposal for a law simplifies, inter alia, the procedure for informing about the value of real estate and making comments and proposals by means of electronic procedures. In this way, operators with appropriate electronic equipment should obtain, instead of physical notifications, the possibility of e-examination of the experimental calculation. Given that the novel fulfils one of the basic purposes of the basic law, which provides for the use of the collected data for various purposes and not just for the purposes of taxation by introducing the general use of the collected database, we will, as has already been said, support the proposal of the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is: a defensive proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of the bill before us is to partially transpose the so-called Omnibus Directive into the Slovenian legal order, in part, in the work relating to amendments to the Financial Conglomerates Directive. Although the Omnibus Directive applies substantively to the area of competence of the European supervisory authorities. The Directive, and thus this law by transposing the Directive, removes certain shortcomings identified in the recent financial crisis, in particular from the point of view of insufficient financial control. The supervisory models at national level are lagging behind the financial globalisation and interconnection of European financial markets where more and more financial institutions operate across borders. There have also been shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of European Union law and mutual trust between national competent authorities. The main substantive solutions to the bill can be summarized into the next 5 points. First time. The new role of the Joint Committee of European Supervisory Authorities shall be defined. The supervisory authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, which exercise control over persons in the financial conglomerate, will have to cooperate with them and communicate to them immediately all the information necessary for the performance of their duties. The supervisory authority will also have to follow the guidelines of the European Authority before deciding on the equivalence of controls. With regard to the Joint Committee, it is also worth mentioning that the coordinator will have to inform him of the findings of the financial conglomerate and the appointment of the coordinator. Another time. Mediation of the relevant European Supervisory Authority will be possible when national supervisory authorities do not agree on the equivalence of supervision of superiors established in a third country. Third time. Better information will be provided. The exchange of information will also take place between the supervisory authorities and the European Systemic Risk Board, as will the ESA, a common term for the three European Supervisory Authorities, the right to access all information on supervised and uncontrolled persons from the financial conglomerate that could be crucial for complementary supervision. Fourth time. Capital and risk management procedures will also have to include appropriate development arrangements and, if necessary, the development of recovery plans and the resolution of individual institutions. Fifth. The supervisory authorities of the Republic of Slovenia will have to take into account the guidelines, standards and other recommendations of the Joint Committee in order to bring supervisory methodologies and practices closer together. It takes into account all of the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Rad Likar, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thanks again for saying that. The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body at its 32nd meeting, on 5 October 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the provisions of Articles 2, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 16. The proposed law shall be subject to the amendments tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit of business. The Committee was presented as working material with proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service. In the context of a further explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the proposals for amendments to the Committee were in response to the majority of the comments made by the Service. The Committee did not discuss the content of the proposed solutions. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee established and adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 6, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 16. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the supplementary draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I give the floor to Mr Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thanks again for saying that. The proposed amendment of the Financial Conglomerates Act following a reduced procedure follows the harmonisation of our legislation with European Union law and brings to our legal order Directive 2010/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending major directives on the powers of the European supervisory authorities - the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Evaluation Authority. In addition to implementing certain new concepts, amendments to the law provide for a new role for the Joint Committee, allowing for the mediation of the relevant European Supervisory Authority when there is a disagreement between supervisory authorities regarding the equivalence of supervision of supervisors established in a third country. Better information is ensured through the exchange of information between supervisory authorities and implements the obligation for supervisory authorities from the Republic of Slovenia to comply with the European Union guidelines, standards and recommendations on convergence of supervisory methodologies and practices. We will support the proposed law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Bogdan Chapič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye! The financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 revealed significant weaknesses in financial supervision in individual cases as well as in relation to the overall financial system. Supervisory models at national level are lagging behind the financial globalisation and interconnection of European financial markets where several financial institutions operate across borders. During the crisis, there were shortcomings in the cooperation, coordination, control and consistent application of Union law and trust between national competent authorities. Directive 2010/78/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 amending the Directive as regards the powers of the European Supervisory Authority and the work relating to the amendment of Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary control of credit institutions, insurance companies and investment firms in the financial conglomerate adopting or accompanying Directives. Given that this is a fairly technical, professional law, there has also been some in-depth and substantive debate on individual articles, since the Directives themselves are being transposed. However, it is appropriate to highlight the main solutions to the draft law, such as the new role of the Joint Supervisory Authority of the Committee, so that the supervisory authority of the Republic of Slovenia, which supervises the persons in the financial conglomerate, has to cooperate with the Joint Committee and immediately communicate to it all the information necessary for the performance of its tasks, so that the coordinator of the establishment of the financial conglomerate and the appointment of the coordinator is informed, inter alia, by the Joint Committee instead of the Commission. That, of course, the supervisory authority must take into account the guidelines drawn up by the Joint Committee before deciding on the equivalence of controls. The mediation of relevant European supervisory authorities with supervisory authorities in individual countries and the problems of financial institutions in third countries of the world will also be possible. Better information will be established through the exchange of information, also between supervisory authorities and the European Systemic Risk Committee following a new one. ESA, the Joint European Supervisory Authority, has the right to access all information on supervised and uncontrolled persons from the financial conglomerate that could be decisive for the supplementary committee. Therefore, capital and risk management procedures should also include procedures for preparing and, where necessary, drawing up plans for restoring and resolving risks. The supervisory authorities of the Republic of Slovenia must take into account the guidelines, standards and other recommendations of the European Union in carrying out their tasks and competences in order to bring supervisory methodologies and practices closer together. Finally, certain concepts such as the bank, the reinsurance undertaking, the pension company, the stock exchange and the intermediary company are updated or updated, while some new concepts are introduced in order to transpose Directive 2010/78, which are reasoned and used by the European Union in their acts. For all this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Conglomerates Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Marjan Bezjak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you. Hello, President, welcome, Secretary of State, fellow Member and fellow Members! The financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 revealed significant weaknesses in financial supervision and in individual cases in the functioning of financial systems. The supervisory works at national level are lagging behind the financial globalisation and interconnection of European financial markets where several financial institutions operate across borders. During the crisis, there were shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of Union law and trust between national competent authorities. The main solutions to the bill include, inter alia, a new role for the Joint Committee. The supervisory authorities in the Republic of Slovenia exercising control over the private in the financial conglomerate shall participate in the Joint Committee and shall communicate to it without delay all the information necessary for the performance of its tasks. The Authority should take into account the guidelines drawn up by the Joint Committee before taking a decision on equivalent control. Mediation of the European Supervisory Authority concerned shall be possible where the supervisory authority does not agree on the equivalence of the supervision of superiors established in a third country. The bill also means better information, which is crucial. The exchange of information is also followed by a new one between the supervisory authorities and the European Systemic Risk Board. ESA shall have the right to access all information on supervised and uncontrolled persons from a financial conglomerate that may be decisive for supplementary supervision. The capital and risk management process shall also include preparatory procedures and, if necessary, recovery and resolution plans. The supervisory authorities of the Republic of Slovenia must take into account the guidelines, standards and other recommendations of the European Union in the performance of their tasks and competences in order to bring supervisory practices closer together. We support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The current law adopted in 2006 was designed to complement supervision in terms of managing and reducing risks in relation to the operation of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate, thus also ensuring greater stability of the financial system. The financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 revealed significant weaknesses in financial supervision in individual cases, as well as in relation to the overall financial system. There have been shortcomings in cooperation, coordination, consistent application of Union law and trust between national competent authorities. Supervisory models at national level are lagging behind the financial globalisation and interconnection of European financial markets where several financial institutions operate across borders. Therefore, on the basis of the reactions of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council, these findings at the level of Union legal acts have led to some changes needed to strengthen the supervisory framework for reducing the risk and severity of future financial crises. The aim of this proposal is to bring our acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union and to implement the principle of improving cooperation between national supervisory authorities and bodies of the European Union in the field of financial systems. The proposal of this law sets out a new role for the Joint Committee, whereby the Slovenian supervisory authorities, namely the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, will have to cooperate with the supervisory authorities of the financial conglomerate. Where the supervisory authorities of several Member States do not agree on the equivalence of supervision of superiors established in a third country, the possibility of mediation of the relevant European supervisory authority shall be ensured. Rules for the exchange of information between supervisory authorities and the European Systemic Risk Board are laid down. Capital and risk management procedures are being redefined. National supervisory authorities should take into account the guidelines, standards and other recommendations of the Joint Committee in order to bring supervisory methodologies and practices together. The DeSUS Group supports the bill's proposal because we believe that additional and improved controls are needed for the stability of the financial market. We believe that by increasing supervision we can achieve greater transparency and security in the functioning of the Slovenian financial market and thus the European financial space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State! We are back together in the field of finance and there will be more from the economy. In such cases, we simply see and advertise. It is true that, due to the lack of financial supervision, the European Parliament has adopted several resolutions and has called for more related European supervision. The result of this call, of course, should also be addressed by the Financial Conglomerates Act, to say that they were parallel, which may not have been heard today, the establishment of three committees called ESAs, which is actually a system of supervisors in the European Union. This law is therefore designed to partially transpose certain directives into the Slovenian legal order. By adopting this law, the supervisory authorities of the Republic of Slovenia are to exercise control over persons in the financial conglomerate, undertake to cooperate with the Joint Committee and provide this committee with information that is relevant. Given that we are members of the club, we must respect the rules, that is, the second to adopt this law, which is actually based on directives and resolutions of the European Union, is not possible. However, in the Slovenian National Party we hope, in which we will not therefore oppose the law, this law for the main purpose will not only have coordination with the European Directive, but actually have greater financial control over financial conglomerates, including, of course, those in this "conglomerate club" also in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the enlargement of the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of investments in economic societies under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u224	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a new law that you are deciding today is one of the measures to restart the economy. With regard to the support of the economy at the time of the economic and financial crisis, it has been shown that State guarantees should also be eligible for loans for revolving assets, as some companies have completed their investment cycle before or during the economic crisis and are now faced with a lack of liquidity to finance operating assets. However, some sectors are so affected by the economic crisis that they cannot provide the necessary start-up assets for the financing of activities themselves. The second reason why we propose the law under consideration is that business partners, in particular foreign companies, require their increased capital adequacy to be included in the supply chain. Business analysis shows that individual companies are sub-capitalised. The incentive for financial consolidation could also be a State guarantee for loans intended to finance operating assets. The State's return on assets should therefore also respect this condition. On the basis of that amendment, the law includes the following key amendments. Loans can be allocated not only for investments, which allows the existing law, but also for the financing of operating assets, by dividing the total legal quota of one billion euros into 750 million for investments and 250 million for operating assets. The guarantee may cover 60% of the principal’s assets and continue to cover 75% of the principal’s investments. All guarantees are subject to the condition that the status of all guaranteed loans by law in a particular company must not exceed EUR 20 million; for the assets, the amount of each loan shall be limited to a maximum of 5 % of the revenues in the business year and EUR 750 000. Due to the special risk of revolving guarantees, the law introduces two additional guardians. The financial supervision and validation of all financial transactions during the duration of the project shall be carried out by the Authorising Authority. He will report to the Ministry of Finance and the SID Bank once a month. It will be appointed on the basis of a call for tender and will have to meet a reasonable level playing field as a bankruptcy manager. Its tasks and prizes will be further regulated by a tripartite contract and the beneficiary will pay the prize. The other protector is the requirement that members of the management bodies of beneficiaries or owners, as added by the amendment of the parent working body, must give their guarantee of at least 50% in order to secure the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of this counter-guarantee is primarily preventive. Companies with less than 35% of the capital share of the balance sheet will have to submit a plan to increase the share of the capital in order to obtain a guarantee for the return on assets, i.e. for guarantees alone. If this plan is not implemented, the company no longer has the right to receive further guarantees under law. Due to supervision, the guarantee can only be issued for bank and savings banks with the permission of the Bank of Slovenia. As already mentioned in the introduction, the Government considers that the expanded guarantees offered by the proposed novelties would make an important contribution to the relaunching of the economy. In addition, additional cauldrons serve to ensure that the guarantees are designed for projects with a high degree of probability of success. In the light of all the above, we propose that the National Assembly adopt a legal amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again! At its 32nd meeting, on 5 October 2011, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Companies submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Service made specific comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7 of the Law and on the transitional provisions. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service concerned in particular the definition of first-class commercial banks and savings banks in which credits granted by the Republic of Slovenia were leased, in view of the addition of the condition that these banks were authorised by the Bank of Slovenia to provide banking services. The service has also been defined until the fourth paragraph of Article 4 concerning the clarity of the provisions defining the position of the authorising officer. The Committee also received comments from the Association of Banks of Slovenia regarding the determination of the market price as a condition that, in accordance with EU legislation, it is not possible to implement the scheme of law in State aid. Furthermore, the comments concerned the exclusion of the debtor established outside Slovenia and the additions of the article to the possibility of securing a loan with a derogation from the claims on debtors of different status forms abroad, provided that such a claim was secured under credit insurance. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. The Committee was provided as additional material with proposals for amendments to the Committee to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the SID of the Bank attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Ministry of Finance stressed the purpose of the bill. It was pointed out that the existing Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Company Investments was valid for a good year. At the time of the implementation of the law, the need to supplement the law was demonstrated in particular this year. This is followed by the proposed resolution of the law that the State guarantee is also a revolving asset. On the basis of the proposal for a law, one billion euro of the guarantee is allocated to 750 million for investments and 250 million euros for turnover. On the basis of such a solution, the guarantee for loans for investments would continue to be 75 % of the principal of the individual loan and 60 % of the principal of the individual loan would be remunerated for the assets. As part of a further explanation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative stressed that, under the Banking Act in the Republic of Slovenia, certain banks that did not obtain the permission of the Bank of Slovenia could operate and the proposed amendments to banks that did not have the permission of the Bank of Slovenia did not allow these banks to be included in the scheme. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also drew attention to the clarity of the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 4, which defines the position of the authorising officer appointed by the Ministry of Finance. In the debate, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that Article 1 proposed a solution requiring the permission of the Bank of Slovenia, because it would avoid the granting of guarantees to banks that the Bank of Slovenia does not have full control over. In the debate, the representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia submitted support for the bill to extend the law's solutions to reverse assets, stressing that the last indent of Article 1(4) excludes debtors established outside Slovenia. In view of the number of exporters and the different status forms of debtors abroad, this limits the possibility of collateral with a derogation from claims and debtors abroad, unless the YPPES will also issue a credit assessment for those debtors. In the opinion of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the addition of the article also allows the possibility to secure a credit with a derogation from the claims to debtors of different status forms abroad if such a claim is secured under credit insurance. The insurers of these loans shall assess the debtor's creditworthiness and determine the amount of the claim acceptable to the insurance and, in addition, this framework is suitable for the collateralisation of the credit. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended bill, which is an integral part of this report and which you have received, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thanks again for saying that. The proposed amendments to the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the financing of investments by companies are intended to extend the possibility of granting guarantees to the State while taking into account the requirement for adequate insurance of guarantees and the capital adequacy of companies requesting a guarantee for convertible assets. Last year, the Law on Guarantees for the Financing of Investments of Companies, which allows the Republic of Slovenia to issue guarantees for the insurance of loans intended solely for investment in development projects, proved to be insufficient in the current situation in the Slovenian economy, as it does not allow state guarantees for loans for operating assets and to help the country improve the capital adequacy of Slovenian companies included in the global chain. The proposed amendments to the law, which follow the principle of equal access to guarantees and compliance with the State aid rules, also allow for State guarantees to be granted on the condition that all secured loans to each company do not exceed EUR 10 million, while the amount of each loan is limited to EUR 300,000, subject to the obligation to submit a capital improvement plan for companies with less than 35% of the capital. The law also limits the upper limit of the total value of the Republic of Slovenia's investment guarantees to EUR 750 million and the similar margin for the guarantee to the reverse funds to EUR 250 million. In view of the risk of reverse guarantees, the law introduces the Institute of Commissioners of the Ministry of Finance and the obligation of managers of beneficiaries to guarantee 50 %. The proposed amendment of the law will be supported in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u229	Mr Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Good-bye! You will probably not be surprised if the Social Democrats' Group supports the proposal for a new law drafted by our Government. But not only is he supported by this government. As we have already proved several times when we agree with the content, we stand for this content 100%, but when we do not, we also make it clear. We support him because the novelty of this law makes perfect sense. The fact is that in a situation where banks are still very sceptical about loans, and in particular loans for assets, the State guarantee for lending investments at this point is of marginal importance for the start-up and operation of the economic cycle, i.e. the operation of the company itself from the acquisition of material to the sale or the provision of a service. For this reason, it is entirely reasonable that, in addition to the State Investment Guarantee, we also choose to provide a State guarantee for operating assets, i.e. that the company can purchase material, purchase real estate, machinery or technology, but purchase material that can then operate and sell or sell its services or its finished products. I therefore think that, at this point, the country has courageously embarked on the path of those who, while in the private sector as we know business angels, business angels who, under certain controls, allow an entrepreneur or an enterprise to access funds, to money. By also supporting the way this money will be controlled very strictly and very consistently. Therefore, when an entity receives such a credit for the assets, it will have to obtain the approval of an external supervisor who will reasonably comply with the standards of the bankruptcy manager for each outflow. For each cost incurred by the company, it will therefore be necessary to obtain further approval, just so that the company does not obtain easier, cheaper credits and then spend them for other purposes other than those actually confirmed by the State guarantee itself. This also means an additional cost for the company, because it is necessary to pay this external supervisor who will carry out this control, but it is necessary to say that the State guarantee does not only mean easier access to funds, i.e. money, but also means cheaper access to money, because with the State guarantee the credit is also obtained in banks with less interest. So it is perfectly justified and understandable that, after all, what is being saved at lower interest rates on credit is then, of course, paid by someone who controls the interests of the State which controls the spending of that money for which the State provides the guarantee. Once again, support for the decision, courageous decision to make the state a business angel for Slovenian companies at this point in time to allow additional access to financial resources that are ultimately in the interest of all, because we are aware that when an undertaking spends and, above all, we hope, generates profits, it also creates a basis for end-users to pay taxes and that this country can go on as it does today. And that's what we're counting on, better than today. So we support the Social Democrats of the State guarantee for reverse assets and therefore support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u231	Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much again. The amendment of the law will make it easier and cheaper for applicants to access the funds needed to finance the investments of companies in the future. Some of the news that the proposal brings. The new law extends the scope of the law, i.e. guarantees are granted not only for investments but also for the financing of operating assets. Furthermore, an additional condition is laid down, namely the obligation to submit a capital improvement plan for companies with at least 35 % of the capital. The new law also provides for sanctions for the possible failure to implement the plan in the sense of prohibiting further guarantees under the law. The Law also introduces the Institute of Commissioners of the Ministry of Finance, which will carry out financial supervision of the use of financial resources in order to reduce the risk of the debtor, and foresees the requirement that members of the Management Board themselves be married to guarantee a guarantee of at least 50% of the Republic of Slovenia. The total amount of all the guarantees of the State of Slovenia for the financing of operating assets shall not exceed EUR 250 million. The credit limit is 5% of operating income in the past year and 750 thousand euros respectively. The duration of the loan shall not exceed three years. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u233	Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u234	Your Honor! The Good Year Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia allows the Republic of Slovenia to provide guarantees only for the provision of loans intended to finance investments in development projects, which, of course, have an added value to the employee and also allow for higher employment. The economic crisis has opened up additional dimensions. The representatives of the economy pointed to two issues in particular. Thus, State guarantees should also be possible for loans for revolving assets, as companies are faced with declining liquidity to finance operating assets. Secondly, when integrating into supply chains, partners require increased capital adequacy. A number of companies have been sub-capitalised in the long term. In fact, we are at the very summit in the Union in this regard, especially the recent report on corporate indebtedness in Europe. The proposed proposal with amendments, in our view, helps to address some of these problems. The Group of Members will therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u235	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The current State Guarantee Act to finance companies' investments, adopted last year, provides that state guarantees may be issued for loans that the beneficiaries are committed to financing investments in development projects that achieve an increase in the added value of the employee and enable higher employment. In one year of implementation of the law, representatives of the economy drew attention to their needs, which could be met by the State as a measure of recovery from the economic crisis. The government has listened to the needs of the economy and therefore proposes amendments and amendments to the applicable law, which are the following. The possibility of providing guarantees for the financing of operating assets is also expanded. As a result, the total amount of guarantees issued by the Republic of Slovenia under this Act totalling EUR 1 billion is divided into three quarters, that is 750 million, spent on investments, one quarter, that is 250 million, and on assets. The Republic of Slovenia provides a guarantee for the lending of investments of 75% of the principal of the individual loan and a guarantee of 60% of the principal in the case of reverse loans. According to the updated proposal, for all guarantees, the current condition is that the state of all secured loans for each company does not exceed EUR 20 million. The amount of the individual loan for the assets may be up to 5% of the company's income from the previous year, or up to €750,000. In the case of revolving loans, an additional condition is laid down for the submission of an improved capital adequacy plan for companies with less than 35 % of the capital. The penalty for possible failure to implement the plan is a prohibition on obtaining further guarantees under the law. In view of the specific risk of reverse guarantees, the law introduces two additional guardians, the Institute of Commissioners of the Ministry of Finance, which will carry out financial supervision, and the requirement that members of the management and control bodies of beneficiaries themselves give a guarantee of at least 50%. The purpose of this other institute is primarily preventive. The management of the company, which will personally be responsible for financial obligations, will make a more prudent decision on the project. In this way, the economy, in particular the Slovenian construction sector, is expected to be significantly strengthened by performances in domestic and foreign markets, which will facilitate the acquisition of new businesses, improve employment and increase public financial flows. As this is not an increase in the volume of guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the already applicable guarantee quota, there will also be no increase in the effects on public funds in the event of the activation of guarantees. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u237	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u238	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Content of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of investments by companies, i.e. the basic law of 2010, was very precisely defined by the Secretary of State and all speakers before me, so I will not repeat myself. However, I would like to stop at one comparison, which is also recorded in the explanatory memorandum, which is that our Government, which drafted this law, has said that Germany has already put in the stability programme the measure we are talking about today as of January 2009. Why am I bringing this up? Because this measure in the stability programme that we have adopted has been adopted and implemented, they have done it in time and are where they are today. The State of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted such a law, which is already basic, late in June 2010. Nor would this be so bad if, in those three years, the recorders were not completely flawed in the provision of guarantees, in addition to loans. Instead of providing such credit guarantees as we are talking about today since 2009, this country has given credit to the managers who have imported their companies, with loans that have made it poor and impossible for banks to operate normally, and we have come up with almost 30% of the guarantees, 30% of the gross social product. Of course, all this needs to be said to this government, and not only to the Ministry of Finance, but also to the lack of coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the economy, a great deal of criticism. Late, far too late, far too little and the initial policy of providing guarantees was completely flawed. I am just afraid, I am speaking on behalf of colleagues and colleagues, that we will now hear in a short time how such a guarantee will be obtained by the Triglav Insurance Company, which has saved the Cologne Hall, right there for some 500 000 euros a year, at the same time one of the parliamentary groups, I do not know which, has tabled a bill to raise the contribution rate for compulsory car insurance, where Triglav has a large market share. And again, we can be where we suspect that each move is accurately measured and agreed only for individual elites. I said it was supposed to be like that and we're afraid of it if that's the case. It is not possible to oppose the law because you get hit immediately: Aha, you are against the aid, investments to the economy, against new aid to the assets or guarantees by presenting a plan to improve capital adequacy. Of course we are for this, but we would like to be for this already in January 2009 as Germany, and that the number of guarantees that went where you know they went or that disappeared or destroyed and weakened banks would remain here, and that the amount would not be as defined in this law, but that it would be with one zero more. Unfortunately this is not the case, but it is too late, but it is the hope that it will help at least a little to awaken the Slovenian economy, which is why we will not oppose this bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u239	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the aid granted to the State is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market and is compatible with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In spite of the rejection of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the decision on the sale of State assets for 2010 and 2011 in the first half of this September, the Government decided to re-examine the proposal to supplement the decision in question. The aim of the Government is to ensure that procedures relating to the sale of certain state assets are initiated in this year and that this would prevent economic and financial damage that could have occurred if the State did not try to exploit the options agreed upon in the previous partial sales of certain state assets. In line with the decision's addition, we propose to include in the possible sale programme the investments of the Republic of Slovenia acquired under the GEF Project – Removing barriers to increased biomass use as an energy source. The Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to sell its share in companies that have received funding under the GEF Project through optional offers that run in individual companies by the end of this year. The decree also includes investments in SIJ, where the route of the option expires in the first quarter of 2012 and constitutes a 25 % purchase of the share of the Republic of Slovenia in that company. On the basis of the amendment adopted by the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Council, the sale of State shares in Adria Airways, which the Government does not oppose, is also included in the list of possible divestments of state assets. With regard to the investments proposed for inclusion in the sales programme, it should be pointed out that no dividends or profits were received by the Republic of Slovenia from the investments involved in the addition of the decree. The inclusion of investments in the supplementation of the decree is based solely on the redemption of the conditions of optional offers on which the Republic of Slovenia could receive a higher purchase than when selling under current market conditions. However, with regard to Adria Airways, it is a matter of fulfilling the undertaking of the company's financial and business restructuring agreement, which is why this supplement also shows support. On the basis of the above, it is assessed that the adoption of the amendment of the decree is necessary and we propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the amendments to the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Chappić, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! At its 32nd meeting, on 5 October 2011, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the 2010 and 2011 Regulation on the sale of state-owned assets, which was proposed by the Government to the National Assembly under Article 11 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposed decision in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. No comments shall be made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the motion for a decree. The proposed decision was tabled by Mr Alojz Potočnik to the chapter Presentation of individual capital investments and to Table A within the time limit of the amendment. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Finance and Legal Services. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary explained that the Government had already proposed a proposal to supplement the 2010 and 2011 Regulation on the sale of state and financial assets, but the National Assembly did not support a slightly broader proposal to supplement the decree when it prepared or submitted the 2011 State Budget Balance. Notwithstanding the rejection of the previous proposal for a decree, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to reconsider and approve the initiation of a procedure for the sale of state-owned assets in those cases or companies where a larger economic skin could arise for the country if these procedures are not carried out this year or at the beginning of the following year. These are investment projects acquired by the State under the GEF Project — Removing barriers to increased biomass use as an energy source, where the State has undertaken to sell its share in companies receiving funding from the GEF project through an option offer. Individual companies shall be granted these options by the end of 2011. In addition, it is proposed to include in the decree the sale of shares in SJ - the Slovenian steel industry, where the option concluded with the investor expires in the first quarter of 2012 and therefore procedures for the opening of the sale of this share must be carried out or commenced already this year. The representative of the opposition explained in the debate that amendments to the Adrio Airways decision had been drawn up on the basis of decisions related to Adrio Airways. One of these conclusions provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been informed of the condition of Adria Airways and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the intention of finding a strategic partner. The second conclusion, however, provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as an interested party to Adria Airways, expresses the interest of acting in the financial and business restructuring process of Adria Airways and the procedures for seeking the negotiation and inclusion of the best strategic investor in Adria Airways. The other representatives of the opposition stressed in the debate that the proposal for a regulation on the sale of state assets would not be supported or voted against, as had been voted against in the previous proposal when the budget rebalancing was voted on and, as is known, this proposal did not receive most of the support. One of the reasons why they will do so is that the government has not yet prepared a basic document, this is a strategy for managing capital investments. The opposition's representatives also explained that the state plays an important role in the decisions and still plays a decisive role in the Slovenian steel industry. It is also not wise to sell the share because there is a possibility that the vital functions of this system can be transferred elsewhere. Regarding the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, the representative of the Government further explained that, under the option contract, the State could recover more than EUR 190 per share. The current book value of the stock is 168 euros. As a result, the sale of the country's stake in SIJ and the use of the sales option would achieve at least 5 million and a half higher purchases than could be made at current market prices. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has identified itself to the amendments tabled and has adopted the amendment of Mr Alojs Potočnik to the chapter Presentation of individual capital investments and to Table A. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft decree, including the Annex, which is an integral part of the decree, and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended decision, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor again on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. The Group of the Social Democrats supports the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011. The proposal for a decree according to the existing decree is complemented by the sale of Energetics Črnomelj, Ekoena, d.o.o. in Heat supply, d.o.o. dealing with the production of heat from renewable sources from biomass, where the Republic is obliged to carry out the sales of ownership in companies in accordance with the 1999 GEF Project rules — Removing barriers to increasing biomass use as an energy source. The start-up procedure for the sale of the ownership share must be carried out in 2011, as the sales options fall due in December 2011. The division of ownership between the State and other shareholders is important. In the SD Group, we support the generation of heat from renewable sources and therefore all obstacles to such development must be removed. The sale of ownership shares will gradually be in line with the rules of the GEF Project and, on the other hand, we will allow private capital to enter these companies and allow even faster development of important energy companies mainly in smaller municipalities. The government also proposed to sell 25 % of the stake of SJ - the Slovenian steel industry, representing 248 thousand 655 shares. In the management of the company, the Republic of Slovenia cannot play an active role of the owner in cases of investment in development beyond the ability of the company itself, and in cases of deterioration in the situation in the sector, the latter cannot help, as a private foreign owner may do. The road option, which runs in the first quarter of 2012, represents a 25 % purchase of the Republic of Slovenia's share of the circus of €48 million. Since simple ownership is concentrated on one owner, the State has no influence with its share on the company's business and profit sharing. It is also a reasonable sale of the Slovenian steel industry in view of the fact that the Slovenian steel industry does not pay dividends, which means that the State does not have any income from the investment in the SIC. It can also happen that if the government does not use the sales option to maintain a minority share in ownership, it will not be possible to sell this share in the Slovenian steel industry. Now we could get 48 million euros together with the sale of this share in the Slovenian steel industry, because it can handle its own majority share and does not need an additional 25%. It is clear that we can now get 48 million from sales, and after 2012, it is not necessary that we could even sell, but if we did, the price would probably be significantly lower. At the meeting, Adria Airways was also involved in the sales programme at the proposal of the ZaresProposal Group, which was submitted by the Zares Group, will probably be extremely difficult to implement this year when this decree is still in force. However, it would probably be reasonable to retain 25 % and one share if this represents the largest share of ownership, at least until the final recovery of the State air carrier is carried out and the business model that ensures the sustainable development of the Slovenian air carrier in the state co-ownership is confirmed. The expectations of the State and of other users in the air carrier are high. In each area of the development of Slovenia, it is certainly impossible to imagine the further development of air transport without state ownership or at least a significant share of the country's ownership of a company that allows for further and stable development. In view of all of this, it will be necessary to adopt a decision supplementing the Regulation on the Sales Programme of State-owned Assets for 2010 and 2011, which constitutes an additional minimum that this Government, which ends its mandate at the end of 2011, will be able to protect the interests of the State in the ownership structures of enterprises in an important and in a timely manner. That is why the Group of Social Democrats will also support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u245	Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again, we have before us the proposal for a regulation supplementing the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011. The proposal was prepared by the Government at the time of the preparation of the 2011 state budget rebalancing, but the proposal did not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a proposal to supplement the Decree on a scheme for the sale of state-owned assets in companies where the Republic of Slovenia has shares acquired through a project to remove barriers to the increased use of biomass as an energy source, and also for a proposal to sell shares in a company where, according to the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is considered to be a low share, which makes it impossible for it to participate actively in the management of this company. It is the sale of SIJ - the Slovenian steel industry, where the Republic of Slovenia owns another 25% share plus one share. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the motion for a decree because it is a decree containing virtually the same provisions as the decree proposed at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly last month at the time of the budget rebalancing. At that time, we opposed the SDS decision and did not receive majority support in the vote. The fundamental reason for our opposition to the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the sale programme of state assets is the same as in the previous case, namely that we are still waiting for a basic document, this is the management strategy for capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have submitted by 30 June of this year under the Capital Investment Management Act. It is not irrelevant in this respect that the original deadline was set for the end of 2010 and that this deadline has already been extended once. It is not possible to get the impression that the applicant insists on the proposed share sale programme solely and solely for the purpose of filling the state treasury, irrespective of the later consequences. This is the case with the Slovenian steel industry, where one of the arguments on the government side is that the Republic of Slovenia cannot play an active owner role in the management of this company in case of investment in development. In part, this can be confirmed, however, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the control share under the Treaty still allows us to have a dominant impact on whether the vital functions will remain at home and thus maintain jobs or whether production will move elsewhere and thus risk further loss of jobs. In our opinion, the holding of the Slovenian steel industry is doing well and the country could also receive substantial dividend income from this system. We have also tabled two amendments to Articles 1 and 2 to the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the Programme for the Sale of State Assets for 2010 and 2011. In Article 1, we proposed deleting the addition of the country's list of capital investments for sale for the reasons I have already mentioned. As we do not expect the amendments to be adopted, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the State Property Sales Regulation and, in the opposite case, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u247	Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you. The Group of Members will support the completion of the 2010 and 2011 Regulation on the sales programme of state-owned assets. The explanation of the Government's proposal seems reasonable, since the initial broader proposal focused only on those companies where the country would suffer more economic damage if procedures were not carried out this year or at the beginning of the next year. It's the GEF Project. Complementary to the proposal with Adrio Airways d.d. seems to be in the midst of what is happening in connection with the difficult and probably not the last state recapitalisation, the need. If he does not convince the reasons, then this is better and with the same conclusions are carried out by the air carrier’s leading men in a recent extensive interview. "The strategic partner is an emergency and the only option," they say, "and if we don't enter this business first in the region, we will stop." So there's not much choice at any time, just in time and immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u249	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you again very much for your word. We are considering the additions to the decree on the sales programme of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011. At the beginning of 2010, we adopted a high-flying Capital Investment Management Act in the National Assembly. At the time, the main arguments for its adoption were the excessive fragmentation of government investment management across different ministries and the conflict of interests, in transparency, inefficiencies, inefficiencies, inefficiencies in governance. The capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to ensure that state capital investments are well and best done. In this way, the desired objectives, in particular efficiency, transparency, accountability, also predictability and, to the greatest extent possible, separation from the various policy impacts, should be achieved. According to the then coalition, we needed a new corporate governance policy for state-owned enterprises because we had to establish a new corporate culture because we are responsible for this property and because these state-owned companies have a major development potential for the whole country. Such a measure or a new arrangement should be necessary in order to shift policies and many stakeholders to the management of enterprises, which must follow a particular interest in the nobility of state property on the one hand, to pursue other strategic interests of the country where the strategic importance of the individual undertaking for the country, in particular in the banking and financial sector, energy and transport, makes it necessary. And substantial arguments with the experience of Slovenia in the past period, if there is no corporate policy, become state-owned enterprises of prey and victims of every once-in-a-lifetime political ambition, if not political ambition, but certainly of various interest and lobbyist groups. What we've gained from this agency, we can think of our own. I'd rather not comment on that out loud. The fact is that the state property management strategy had to be adopted by the end of 2010, and we then extended the deadline by supplementing the law until 30 June of this year. Today we are October 18th, and we do not yet have this strategy. Why am I talking about a strategy? The strategy should define, in particular, the development orientations of the Republic of Slovenia as a shareholder or a member of companies and the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia as owners of capital investments; the means of achieving the objectives defined in sectoral policies; and, most importantly, the identification of the strategic investments and shares of the Republic of Slovenia in the individual company required to protect the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. We don't have any of that yet. All promises and high - flying words at the time of marriage were evidently larifari. As a result of all of the above, it is not possible to support the amendments to the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of state-owned assets in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u251	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u252	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues, colleagues! It's moving slowly. I remember thinking that at the first reading of the decree I wanted to understand the Government and on behalf of the parliamentary group said that in fact where the Government has no power and influence of decision-making and where there are no effects on the Government, even financial, if you want, such projects, institutions, however you want to express yourself, the country sells. I don't have a colleague or colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, but from then on, something important has changed for our decision. As soon as I was able to review the amended proposal for a decree, it also contains Adria Airways. In the Slovenian National Party, Adrie Airways would not leave, in fact, not give it away. That a single state, a government, a beautiful country in 20 years cannot afford its own airline, which is more than 50 years old. More than 50 years. Then we will sell the New Ljubljana Bank, which is one state bank that this country would deserve to have. Of course, it will probably be Luke's turn soon, and it all points to the possibility that two important energy state buildings may still be involved. And you know, unfortunately, we can only sell the country then. We will not accept this in the Slovenian National Party because of Adria Airways. Now you can say and figure out how to help, what to do. It's been a long time since we've had Adrio Airways. And if we could appreciate what is ours, our wealth, like the bank, Luca Koper, important energy objects, then we would have taken care of them differently. Not by screwing it all up. We also understand the Slovenian steel industry in the Slovenian National Party because of Adria Airways. We understand that 25% of the share is not very helpful, that the state cannot overcome these percentages when deciding that the situation could happen, that the state would not be able to help. I understand that. But to go like this, at the end of the day, it's really what I or my colleague and my colleagues have twice heard that we have AUKN and we don't have strategies. But I thought, well, because I trust the country, because the country had to be, a good master, and above all, the government, even if it independently decides on certain content, capital investments, knows what it's doing. But apparently neither the government nor the AUKN knows what they're doing. And slowly neither this country will know what it's doing with us at the head. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the amended proposal for a decree. But I said a very clear and concrete reason. We want Slovenia to have its own airline. And like my esteemed colleague Willi Trophynik said, a simple solution would be a compulsory economic service with a subsidy, not a recapitalisation, and then we'll sell it all together and we'll lose it there, because if anyone buys it, they'll buy it at a price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u253	Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposed addition or amendment of the Regulation on the sales programme of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011 comes under significantly different conditions than similar documents in the past. These are usually documents accompanying the adoption of the budget or its rebalancing, although their change is possible at any time that is not linked to the adoption or modification of the budget. However, two new moments must be taken into account. We are ahead of the elections and we have changed legislation on the management of state property, whereby the National Assembly should adopt a capital investment management strategy, but unfortunately it is not because it has not been submitted to it for consideration and adoption. The proposed decree is not disputed in the work relating to three energy companies and it is true that the Government was obliged to propose this in view of the binding deadlines. This is the case with SIJ, where the optional deadline expires in the first quarter of the first year, and even more so with Adria Airways added to the committee. Capital investments in both companies are significantly different and at least the latter requires thorough reflection. Their inclusion in the sales list is unacceptable or controversial before and before the elections themselves. For the sake of this, each member of our group will make a decision on his or her own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u255	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 Ten. 2011. We have two amendments to Articles 1 and 2. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. With the amendment to Article 1 of the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose deleting Article 1 so as to delete these for the newly added capital investments of the country for sale. Here I shall specifically expose the Slovenian steel industry and the sale of shares in this company, which is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia concluded a good deal by selling 55.35 % of its share in 2007, although some contested it, it was estimated that the Slovenian industry was then told to sell to a Russian buyer at a market price. In this place, however, it must be said that an independent and authorised evaluator was evaluated in the sales process of the Slovenian steel industry and an international invitation to tender was also made on this basis. Among other things, the buyer has fulfilled a promise and has invested more than EUR 250 million in the Slovenian steel industry holding during these years and has also maintained the number of employees. However, the State of Slovenia has still retained the control share, according to this system, that is 25% plus one share. And with the intention of reselling this remaining share, it may be that some important vital functions of this company will be transferred elsewhere. This may lead to an extremely high level of risk in order to lose quality jobs. I wonder what this great desire of the Government means to sell this controlling share in the Slovenian steel industry, at a time when it is generally known that the time for sale is more than unfavourable. The argument that the guaranteed price under the option contract merely indicates that the negotiated price in 2007 was nevertheless favourable and that the Government does not expect the market share to reach a higher price. And another thing, I think that some things we can't just look at and judge through the price, but we need to look at it in a comprehensive way, in terms of what the region and the country would be selling or selling this controlling share in the system of the Slovenian steel industry in the long term. Will this also ensure the wider macroeconomic interest of the State in terms of greater economic growth and a more successful and competitive economic system? A few answers to these concerns could certainly be given by the capital investment management strategy in Slovenia, which, as it is said, is not and, of course, is no longer to be expected in this mandate. Maybe there's an amendment to Article 2, so that I won't come forward later. This amendment amends Article 2, but this proposal is only for formal reasons, just in case the amendment to Article 1 is also adopted. With this amendment, we want to specify exactly which part of this explanation is included. We will support both amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u257	Madam Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u258	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the amendment to Article 1, it should be said that the proposed amendment actually destroys the content of the proposed decree, as it deletes the entire Article 1 and thus the first Annex to the Decree, which lists the investments that would expand the list of possible sales of financial investments in this year. As a major concern or in the debate so far, investments in SIJ and Adrio Airways have emerged or cited as key investments for which concerns arise. As regards the investment in SIJ, it must be said that the company is currently adopting the investment plan by 2019 and that the previous Russian partner has invested EUR 220 million in the company over the past period. So far, the business or behaviour of owners who have bought a major share of the Slovenian steel industry from the country in the past shows that these are reliable partners. As a result, it assesses that the sale of the remaining shares to the partners will lead to the relocation of the company's business abroad and that it will somehow not be possible to establish the lost jobs in Slovenia. In addition, it must be said that these issues are usually addressed in the sale contract of the remaining share, and the State will certainly have to pay particular attention to the relevant cavalettes in the sales contract, which will ensure that the decision is adopted and that a decision is taken on the basis of the decision to actually accept the option offer, which will ensure the company's continued production or operation in Slovenia. However, as regards the investment in Adria Airways, it must be said that by this autumn the country did not have a direct investment in this company, but entered Adrio Airways in the autumn of this year, in order to assist the company in its financial and business restructuring. Furthermore, the sale proposal included in the decree proposes or includes the sale of the shares of the Republic of Slovenia in the company and the retention of the controlling share of 25 % plus one share, which means that even if this investment is sold, we do not give up having our national carrier. With regard to the amendment to Article 2, in view of the fact that Mr Likar also opened this debate, I would like to continue to join this debate. I note that the proposed content to supplement the basic Regulation on the sales programme of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011 does not follow, in the second annex, the content of this Annex as it is intended to clarify the content of the individual investments that are the subject of the sale, while the content of the amendment goes beyond that provision, which makes it impossible to support the amendment to Article 2. The strategy has also been mentioned in several debates and I have some criticism to accept here which has been addressed to the Government. At the end of June this year, the government addressed the proposal for a strategy, but at the time of its consideration of the proposal for a strategy, it found that the issue of ensuring the normal functioning of KAD and SOD, in particular the provision of adequate liquid assets for the operation of SOD, remained open and that the search for solutions to this problem was much more complex than it had initially pointed out. We had a serious intention to submit a proposal for a strategy to the National Assembly in the autumn of this year, because in September there was a vote of non-disclosure, the Government at the time when it carries out its current business cannot submit a proposal for a strategy to the National Assembly in our opinion, therefore we propose that the National Assembly, instead of a strategy for doing business by the end of this year and the end of next year, allowing the sale or management of certain financial assets on the basis of a decree, which means a system that we have known so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u259	I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 1. You have also debated Article 2, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 2. Mr. Chappich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. We now have here in the table of amendments actually 2 amendments. The first amendment is to delete Article 1 and the second amendment is to complete the explanation in Article 2. On the committee, as far as I can remember, Article 1 was not open, which means that it is unlikely from the business point of view of Article 1 as such that it is possible to amend. In theory, it is possible to amend only the explanations, because we on the Committee on Finance have adopted additions, explanations which are indeed an integral part of the decision itself, but we have not opened the decision as such, we have not completed or amended any article, which means that from a business point of view it is certainly one question that we should resolve before deciding on it. As far as sales are concerned, I think it's a good idea for us to accept this sales program. I think it is essential that some things are only running out this year, including what colleague Likar said about the sale of the Slovenian steel industry. This is about 25% of the share that Slovenia does not really mean much in terms of capital investment. The majority owner decides on dividends, the majority owner decides on investments, on development, on all these things, and we have the capital invested in this and maybe we could spend it more effectively elsewhere. As far as Adrie Airways is concerned, I think it makes sense for certain procedures to be initiated, even as defined since the Government took over the recapitalisation of Adrie Airways and the possibility of entering a foreign strategic partner, to build a strong company based in Slovenia. There are two completely different investments. For Adria Airways, 25% means co-management because ownership is dispersed and for the Slovenian steel industry, it is certainly not because it is an investment resulting from an option. I cannot support these amendments. The question is whether they make sense or whether they can actually be made to the decision at all, except for the explanations which were open to the committee during the second hearing procedure, that is true, but the decision itself as such was not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u261	Mr. Magg has the word. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u262	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose deleting this list. In fact, I was encouraged by this thinking about the 25+% stake that the country still has in the Slovenian steel industry. In view of the fact that Slovenia has maintained this share, there are a number of substantive reasons. The State has a shareholder agreement with the majority owner, which gives the State a lot more rights than it derives from that capital share. The capital share of 25+ is the so-called controlling share of the company and therefore the fundamental issues concerning the Slovenian steel industry cannot be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, those who support the divestment of this share also support the possibility of moving from Slovenia to a more friendly tax environment, so that there will be only one branch that will "pump" profits out through transfer prices. And forget about reinvesting profits and some business like this. Most economic operators, where Slovenia has no control over where the company is located, have essentially moved those vital functions out and, through transfer prices, regulate the business of this company in the country. And, Your Honor, you are playing with an important segment of the Slovenian economy, with the Slovenian steel industry, which includes a number of strong economic operators, such as Acroni, Metal Ravne and so on. And I think it would be bad if we left this controlling portion for a couple of fiches as long as you want to sell it with this decision. You also agree that the price, respected, at which the Slovenian steel industry was sold was a good one. Remember, respected Social Democrats, how you ironed me in the previous term, according to your own words, on the investigative commissions or specifically on the Commission for the supervision of public finances with regard to this sale of the share, that we sold it too low, at too low a price and so on. The price was only part of the deal. A very important part of the agreement was the commitment to reinvest in profits, and the Slovenian steel industry has reportedly invested around EUR 400 million in updates at this time, in these few years, in order to maintain the number of employees and so on. The price was just part of that story. Now, however, the price is crucial for you to want to sell this share and not least to place on the line an important tax inflow, which, of course, also has a state budget for dividends and the address of other taxes collected. I am confident that the new owners will follow the logic of the minimum duties and will move to where these duties are the smallest. And this country and the Republic of Slovenia will not be affected. We have some companies where production is in Slovenia and where owners are outside, which regulate business and company profits through the transfer pricing system in Slovenia. I'm not gonna count them. You must know them. These are strong companies as strong as the Slovenian steel industry. That is why I believe that this is harmful to this country in the long term and that you should not be overwhelmed by the EUR 10 million revenue generated by the sale of this share in order to cut off this important root which holds the Slovenian steel industry by the name of the Slovenian steel industry, as you will no longer have the Slovenian steel industry after that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u263	Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I have to repeat a few things that I mentioned earlier, but apparently they have not been heard. The control rate of 25% is, of course, relevant if the remaining ownership is dispersed. However, if we are talking about the proportion of 25% of the company compared to the other owners that have a majority stake in society, it is virtually impossible to exercise active ownership in such a company. I agree with you, Mr Vizjak, that the question of price is not the only issue that needs to be resolved in the sales contract, and that is why I have also mentioned earlier that the question of possible relocation of the company needs to be resolved in a possible contract that would arise if the National Assembly gave the Government or the competent authorities the power to decide on the implementation of the option. Once again, I would like to point out that the State has not received any dividends from this company so far, because an agreement has been made with the remaining owners to reinvest any profits in the company and this has also happened. However, as regards the other issues, I must say that compared to the other European countries, the tax rate on corporate income in Slovenia is competitive and therefore would have expected earlier reverse transfer prices, i.e. a transfer price that would transfer profits from Slovenia to one of the other countries, but vice versa, which would transfer profits to Slovenia. However, there are, of course, other mechanisms that need to be put in place for such machinations and problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u265	Mr. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u266	The distinguished Secretary of State, unfortunately the practice and developments in Slovenia are witnessing exactly the opposite of what you are saying. If Slovenia were such a tax oasis and such an attractive tax environment, then the foreign direct investors would be pandering to us. How many do we have? Do we have enough? If we were really as attractive as you say, then we wouldn't have a problem with foreign direct investment and, of course, we'd just kind of start to lose them. You obviously don't know the story of the Slovenian steel industry. You know that a shareholder agreement has been concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the majority owner, which gives the Republic of Slovenia substantial guarantees and substantial rights, which, of course, have a significant impact on business, on information, codecision and thus gives the Republic of Slovenia a better position based on only 25% of the share, both in terms of membership in the supervisory world and of course other rights. That's one thing. Second thing. We both know what the controlling share of the visa of statutory changes of such a company means, the visa of those key fundamental changes, regardless of the rest of the dispersed ownership, is an important proportion that can stop the key most important solutions, such as the change of headquarters and so on, the shortening of the statutory change, the fundamental changes. And that's why any contract followed by the sale of the share is irrelevant, because you're no longer the owner. You're no longer the owner. What does any contract then guarantee if you are no longer in one society? And it's actually really funny to talk and it's unacceptable. I don't even know cases like this. You sell something and then whoever buys it commits to not knowing how long it's gonna take. I mean, if he bought it. That's all she's been wasting. And once again, you want to sell and risk the future of the Slovenian steel industry, these jobs and, finally, the development of the metallurgical sector in Slovenia, which is the most developed steel industry in Slovenia, because of the few ten million that you currently lack in the budget there. And you're missing a billion 700 million in the budget. And you want to cash this option contract because you're running out of time. I think it is right to keep it, that the control share in such an important sector of the Slovenian economy has its purpose, that it was also welcomed at that time. And now just because of the money at risk, what's going to happen to this industry, you want to sell it. This is unacceptable to us and to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u267	I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 2, so I am concluding the debate. The decision on the amendments will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say: a defensive proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 15 Members and Members with the first-signed Mirano Porč. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Potræ.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u268	Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. By means of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Housing Law, we want former holders of housing rights or previous holders of the right to temporary use of residential housing, who, at the time of the adoption of the Housing Law, lived in these dwellings, operated housework and carried out these works today, unless they have retired or ceased to do without their own fault, to ensure the same rights as other tenants of denationalised dwellings. With regard to the proposal, it is correct to point out that the draft law has been tabled by Members and Members of the five parliamentary groups; that it is a matter of law; that the National Assembly has debated several times in recent years; that its content as a minimum of rights is agreed by the Initiative Committee of Pets who represents the interests of domestics in denationalised homes; that the legal basis for such a proposal is also justified in the expert opinion of the Maribor Real Estate Law Institute; that the lawmakers have taken into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service; that the essential opinions of the competent ministry are taken into account; that, as new rights in denationalised dwellings, only the right to material assistance is ensured in the event that the owners of the apartments require the discharge of the dwellings they occupy, or that the former housers themselves decide to empty the apartment because they will arrange their own housing problem. We have taken note of the point made by the applicants that it is not necessary to specifically address the issue of subsidisation of rents, since this is regulated for all equally, and others that it is not possible to adopt a proposal so that in any case the tenants have the right to claim compensation from the State, because it simply does not have these resources. We stress that by adopting the law we will not be harmed or affected or materially burdened by denationalising beneficiaries. That's always the question. By no means are they burdened if they demand evictions, but the housewives receive aid, which also means aid to denationalising beneficiaries, because they will achieve their interest in evicting the housekeeper. Finally, the scope of the material obligations that will arise under the law will only take place in the coming years. It will be allocated according to the number of applications, and normally over the next five years, in no case, according to our calculation and the same calculation from the Government's position, the obligation cannot be more than €13 million combined. The bill was supported by the State Council. No amendments were tabled to the supplementary proposal, as established by the home labour body, with the consent of the Legal and Legal Service and without opposition from the representatives of the Government. Dear Members and Members, all the conditions are met to provide the peacocks of the Denationalisation Act also to the users of housing. There are no longer many who could benefit from this right, the government and only the association count on a circus of 150 to 170 such cases. However, it is important for the rule of law and for the enforcement of the principle of justice that injustices be abolished for any citizen for whom this country has not been able to do so so far. For all I have said, I call on you, and I expect that we will undermine the proposal for amendments and the completion of the law by a large majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Environment and the Free as a working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Bredi Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again, hello to all of you who have taken the time to be here in the hall, hello to the Minister! At its 35th meeting on 29 September this year, the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law, which was sent to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mirano Porč, with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure. At its 110th meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the proposed law following a reduced procedure. A representative of the proposers of the bill, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting. In addition to the basic material, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and the regional development of the State Council. As we have already heard, a complementary explanation of the articles of the bill was given by the first-signed representative of the applicants, Member Miran Potrč, so as not to repeat his words, I think he has sufficiently clearly explained the need and the reasons for adopting this very short bill. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has made comments on Articles 1, 2 and 3 on this basis. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that, on the basis of those comments, amendments had been tabled which had no comments. The government said that it was opposed to the bill, but suggested that the Committee should adopt some complementary solutions, which would improve the law if it were adopted by the National Assembly. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council supported the bill. The Committee then held a debate and vote on the individual articles and on the amendments tabled in the context of the second reading of the draft law. Within the time limit set, amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the Parliamentary Group of Zares and DeSUS and the Chamber of Liberal Democracy to Articles 1 and 3 and a new chapter of Article 3a. The Committee adopted the articles of the draft law and any amendments tabled, as well as its amendment to the amendment to the new Chapter and to the new Article 3a. He then confirmed such an updated bill following a reduced procedure in which all the amendments adopted were included. You have received an updated bill in the framework of our report. As no amendment has been tabled for the meeting of the National Assembly, the Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u271	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Minister Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u272	Mr President, honourable Members, Members! The bill you are considering today refers, as we have already heard, to just one segment of the Housing Law, to the question of the so-called alternative privatisation of residential dwellings. Until now, only the tenants who had acquired housing rights before 1991 had the right to use their homes for an indefinite period of time. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law extends this right from so-called alternative privatisation to all domestics, including those who have acquired only the right to temporary use in residential housing, i.e. for a certain period of time, that is, during the performance of the household function, since housing was originally treated as official housing. The bill gives all housewives who have come to their homes before the entry into force of the Housing Act in 1991 and who are still staying in these dwellings the right to exercise the prior right in front of all other beneficiaries, including the co-owners, or the right to purchase an apartment under the conditions laid down in Article 173 of the Housing Law. This Article of the Housing Law thus provides for the method of determining the administrative value of the apartment and the compensation received by the beneficiary if the apartment is emptied. Accordingly, in accordance with this second option, i.e. the emptying of the apartment, all housewives who would empty the house could apply a retirement allowance of 25% of the value of the dwelling in the Slovenian Compensation Company bonds and a cash payment of 36% of the Slovenian Compensation Company and 13% of the cash paid by the Ministry of Environment and Space. For one average household apartment, this means a cash payment of around EUR 27 000, while the law also gives the beneficiary the right to credit at the Republic of Slovenia Housing Fund to an average of EUR 78 000. The bill explicitly does not only address housewives in multi-housing buildings, which could also mean the exercise of rights for housewives in business buildings. This means an extension of rights, as the Legislative Service of the National Assembly also pointed out in its opinion. If the legal provisions were to be understood as widely as possible, this would not only mean 250 cases as was the original speech, but much more so as to increase financial obligations. While the proposal states in the paper that the law will have no financial implications for the budget, the government has in its opinion pointed out that, precisely because of the financial consequences that the law will bring, this as the Government cannot support. Let us stress that, unfortunately, neither in the 2012 budget nor in 2013, housing resources are provided at a level that would allow for the implementation of the legal tasks already adopted. Neither are the funds provided to the Republic of Slovenia’s Housing Fund for loans, nor are certain conditions for granting loans — interest rate, maturity of credit and so on, which will present an additional problem in the implementation of the law in practice. I hope that in the event of a change to the Housing Law, for which I believe a good purpose, the future government will find the means to comply with the law. Notwithstanding the legal solutions envisaged, I can stress what my predecessor has already said that since 2009, all users of residential dwellings also have peacocks up to a subsidy to pay market rent. In the light of the efforts of the Initiative Committee of Housewives, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has also prepared an amendment to the Regulation on the allocation of non-profit rental apartments, where housewives will be classified in one of the highest scoring categories, allowing them to acquire non-profit rental apartments more quickly. In this way, our ministry is also trying to contribute to the elimination of injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Housing Law was sent to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mirano Ptræ, proposing that it be dealt with in a simplified procedure. The Group of Members and Members proposes to supplement the Housing Law with the rights acquired in the event of discharge by the tenants in denationalised dwellings. This issue has been dealt with in our legislation for many years. The fundamental question, or question, was whether the formal housing right and the right to provisional use, which was different in the various laws of the previous system, were such that the State could also grant certain rights to former holders of provisional application rights similar to denationalising beneficiaries. There is still an unresolved question whether the right to provisional use also means permanent rental and that it is not possible to evict a janitor from this lease without any rights. The proposal under consideration is that this should also be established by law. Whether this right goes to the detriment of other denationalisation beneficiaries, this novelty of the Housing Law does not clearly lead to divorce. The introduction of legislation after a reduced procedure just before the end of the term of office, although it could have been lodged much earlier, does not give the impression that the problem is so urgent, since otherwise it would have been resolved earlier, at the beginning of the term of office. The financial burden of the budgets in the coming years in the event of the adoption of this novelty is also not clearly established. The Legislative and Legal Service also draws attention to the inadequacy of cases already under way. The government has also given a negative opinion. The opinion of the Government's Law Service was that the Government could no longer propose amendments and additions at this stage in the course of its ongoing operations, so it adopted a negative position on the proposal for a law. It was pointed out that certain difficulties would arise in the implementation of this Act in terms of ensuring the necessary financial and human resources potentials. The new law before us is incontrovertible because it could raise a number of questions about the replacement privatisation of so-called employment apartments or categories of employment apartments, and secondly because it would undoubtedly have greater financial implications than assessed in this bill. We support the solution to this problem in the future, but we cannot support the law in the form it is before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Those of us who have been in the National Assembly for a long time remember that a similar marriage has been tabled several times, I think, last time in 2007. The topic is obviously still current, which is why we do not have problems in the Group of Members, but we ask ourselves whether addressing such a problem in the proposed way and in this uncertain time really is among the problems that deserve priority treatment. In the case of amendments to housing legislation, it is important to be very careful and to take into account all the factors that these amendments concern in one way or another. And where does the reason for the proposed changes go? It all began shortly after the independence when the new housing law entered into force, which privatised previous social property in the residential area. However, this law exempt all work units, including household housing. For the Law stipulated that the congregation was obliged to provide another tenant’s apartment to the householder who had to leave the office for retirement or any other reason. However, the problem arose with the users of residential dwellings who no longer performed house functions after the entry into force of the Housing Law, since they had to move out within one year without being provided with alternative housing. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we understand the proposer's initiative to resolve this issue, but we believe that things are a little more complex than they may at first seem, and all relevant factors must be taken into account in regulating this. That is why we also agree with the Government's view that housing is not a matter of housing rights, but of the right to temporary use of an apartment, which is by no means equivalent. In the case of residential housing, it was a matter of work and the right to temporary use was granted for the duration of the work of the house, and in our opinion there is no conditions for alternative privatisation under Article 173 of the Housing Law, and the basic condition for this is purely and solely housing rights. It should also be noted that the Housing Act in 2008 was supplemented by provisions on the additional subsidisation of market rents paid by the users of residential dwellings who are still carrying out or have ceased to carry out works for retirement or for reasons not caused by their guilt. This novel has also established the advantage of renting non-profit housing users, since their housing status is ranked at 160 points, and an absolute advantage to the users of residential apartments will also be determined by the recent amendment of the Regulation on the allocation of non-profit dwellings. The financial and human resources implications of the proposed regime are not negligible, so the adoption of the proposed law would be rather irresponsible just before the elections, as it would commit the future government to meeting the obligations of the proposed law, for which the future government will not have the necessary resources. As it is said, we do not see the reasons for the proposed changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, although the text of the law has changed slightly during the course of the procedure. We believe that the current regime is appropriate, and the proposed law would also mean a departure from the system of housing law, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a novel supplementing the current Housing Law with the rights of previous holders of housing rights or previous holders of temporary rights to use residential housing, which has been under discussion for more than a decade. The fundamental question so far was whether the right to provisional use of the apartment was such that the State should not, therefore, give the former holders the right to provisional application of certain same rights as denationalising beneficiaries. According to the applicant, it has now become clear that the right to provisional use is a permanent purpose of the apartment and that a janitor cannot be evicted without any rights. The rights are not in any way to the detriment of denationalising beneficiaries, as the proposal of the law only provides for the possibility for housewives to obtain the same rights as tenants in denationalised apartments if someone requests the discharge of their dwellings, or if they choose to build or purchase their own apartments, that is to say, to provide them with a certain proportion of the funds from the compensation company and part of the country. In our Group of Members, we believe that these proposals are appropriate and give them no unacceptable rights and that they will also be realized on time in a way that will not be an impossible burden for the country, so we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u279	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. After more than 20 years of efforts by different groups, the proposed law aims at at least partially correcting the injustices that the State has suffered from former domesticists following the entry into force of the so-called Yazbinski Housing Law. All the initiatives so far that the amendment of the law would provide them with adequate housing status, and these were quite a few, have been unsuccessful. If the proposed law is adopted, former housewives will receive the same benefits as the law has granted to tenants in denationalised apartments. The Housing Law has enabled former tenants or holders of housing rights to purchase cheaply in social housing, which is 160 dwellings at the average price of the current 7 000 euros. However, the right to a cheap purchase was denied to the holders of housing rights in denationalised apartments and former tenants. Housing has been regarded by the law as a service apartment which is intended only for the duration of the management of the household tasks. The so-called housing units have become co-owners of one or more apartment buildings. According to the provisions of the current law, the user of a residential apartment who no longer carried out household work had to move out within a year and was not benefiting from any advantage, even though he ceased to do so for objective reasons and not for his own fault. However, if the user of such an apartment remained a tenant, the floor owners could charge him marketable, in practice mostly extremely high, rent. Later, with the amendment of the law, the legislator even unjustifiably divided the former housewives into two parts: those who had acquired housing rights before 1982, which he compared with tenants in denationalised apartments, and those who had lost all rights and with high market rent. Despite the efforts and calls of the International Rental Organisation, the proposals did not receive support for the amendment of the Housing Law, nor could the former coalition. The reason for the non-acceptance was probably the solution offered which offered the possibility of buying a spare apartment. The last attempt to enforce the rights of landlords is more modest and relates mainly to ensuring the relationship of former tenants. The law should protect the right to rent a household apartment in all cases, unless someone has stopped carrying out the duties of a janitor at his own request. The new proposed law is applicable to former holders of housing rights or the rights of temporary use of housing, i.e. those who, on the day of the entry into force of the Housing Law, lived as active tenants in these dwellings; for those who have ceased to operate housework before or after the entry into force of the Housing Law, or for reasons for which they were not themselves to blame and who have not been offered rent or other suitable housing. The law thus provides for a number of solutions, from a pre-emptive right to the right to claim the reimbursement of part of the compensation fund and from the State and to a state subsidy, in contrast to the difference between market and non-profit rent, of course, all under certain conditions. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that it is high time that the rights of house renters are resolved, so despite the fact that the proposed law does not solve the whole problem, we will vote in favour of adopting the proposed amendments. However, we hope that financial resources will be adequately reserved for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, chairman. Comrades and colleagues, welcome, and welcome, Mr. Secretary! Housing policy should today focus on how to create conditions in our country where housing will be so marketable and especially non-profit-making, more accessible in times of economic and financial crisis, which also affects the real estate market, with a large number of unsold new dwellings. So with a burning problem that concerns mainly or only the younger generation. Instead, we are trying to solve the problem caused by the 1991 Housing Law, which has granted the social property in the residential area. So, unfortunately, once again, instead of the present and the future, we are dealing with the past. The aforementioned Housing Law, one of the most important laws of our transition, was a relatively small group of housewives who had been housed before 1991 and a large group of today's tenants of denationalised apartments, compared with other beneficiaries. Since 1991, this deprivivisation of former housing rights holders in denationalisation apartments has been attempted repeatedly or at least to be reduced. To what extent Slovenian politicians have succeeded in this by a decision of the Constitutional Court, they can best tell the tenants or, today, former tenants of denationalised apartments themselves. We can’t even say that about a group of housewives or former janitors. It is true that the right of former tenants to the temporary use of housing is not based on the same conditions as housing rights, but they are very similar. This is also the starting point of the bill's proponents, which we are considering. On the basis of their proposal, the State should ensure the purchase of an apartment comparable to that on which the domestic right to use was meaningful under the terms of the privatisation provided for in Article 173 of the Housing Law. If the landowners had decided to sell the apartment, a preliminary right would have been granted to the tenants and provisions of Article 173 of the Housing Law would have been implemented as regards the terms of the purchase. Furthermore, if the tenants had decided to purchase another home or apartment, they would have the right to request compensation for the value of the house referred to in Article 173 of the Housing Law. Finally, if the tenants were not willing or able to buy the apartment, the State should provide them with a suitable non-profit apartment, if that were not possible, to cover the difference between non-profit and market rent. The proposed solutions essentially mean that housewives would acquire the same rights as tenants in denationalisation apartments. So this is the solution offered. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as I have already said, we would rather see that we are dealing with solutions to the housing problem of young generations and solving the current problems in the real estate market. However, due to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is also a social state, we will not oppose the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We are aware that it is primarily older people who do not have the opportunity to live on the market themselves, and people who, despite some advantages, have very little chance of success in the tendering for non-profit housing. It is also interesting to note that often the owners of these household apartments are natural persons who have become owners of their apartments and thus co-owners of household apartments based on the 1991 Housing Act. As has already been said, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will not oppose the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr. Andrej Magajna. [[He's not here.]] Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the law because, in fact, this law is very small, but at least a partial compensation for the injustice that has occurred to housekeepers or tenants of household housing, we must be honest that not even for the first time since 1991, when the Housing Law was passed, but before the renting rights or housing rights were changed to the right to temporary rent of a household apartment. However, the fact that the Housing Law in itself has already done a number of wrongs, not only to housewives or tenants of household apartments, but also to many others, especially to tenants of denationalised apartments, has proved to be only when the Denationalisation Act has brought a sad fact that denationalising beneficiaries have started out of denationalized apartments to drive out tenants. However, the Housing Law did not provide for this situation at the time of its adoption in 1991. So that we, or the next national assembly and the next government, still solve the issue not only of housing but also of housing that has been returned to the denationalising beneficiaries. Since the adoption of both laws, in particular the Housing Law, the Group of Social Democrats has advocated that these injustices, which we have warned of when we adopt both laws, be rectified. We are happy to be able to resolve problems today at least for house renters. As we say, we still have a duty to the tenants of denationalized dwellings, at least those who are still fighting for the right to a suitable residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u285	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, the proposal for a law on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower universe is based on the agenda. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Andrei Vissiak. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u286	Dear Members and Members, Honourable President, Honourable Minister! A group of four members from various parliamentary groups have tabled a new law on the conditions of the energy concession of the Lower Sava for a number of reasons. The basic law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of energy potential was adopted in 2000. It is now 2011 and a lot of the provisions of the law are outdated. The basic reason is that the existing law does not allow for stable and reliable financing of the continuation of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava. This is not only the conclusion of the applicants, it has also proved in practice, because we know that the Krška hydroelectric power plant is now being built and that two other hydroelectric plants are being planned, namely the Brežice and Mokrice hydroelectric power plants, and that the Krško hydroelectric power plant has collapsed, and has been stuck in the provision of funds to finance the accumulation pool of this hydroelectric power plant, which has caused the delay in the transmission of parts. We are pleased that the contractor is now accelerating to build this part, but nevertheless the energy part of the power plant will be built earlier than the accumulation pool. Since we do not want this problem of unreliable and unstable financing to be repeated by other hydropower plants, namely the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, we propose a solution to ensure a stable source of financing for the continuation of the construction, in addition to the energy part financed by the so-called Climate Fund or the Climate Change Fund, which is also designed to finance renewable energy sources, in accordance with directives and Slovenian legislation. This is therefore a real resource for this project as well, so the basic solution of the bill is that, through the Climate Change Fund, which will be fully operational from 2013, and partly from 2012, we will also start to partially invest the remaining infrastructure at the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, which are in the planning phase. Moreover, the fundamental reason why the new law should also be said that the Court of Auditors has found certain irregularities, ambiguities in the existing law and that, of course, the proposal for a law has taken these findings into account and these shortcomings, inadequacies have been corrected. There have also been blockades in the implementation of the law on land for the construction of water and energy infrastructure, which have caused unnecessary congestion, and we are also going beyond these problems in this new bill. Of course, the existing law did not regulate the maintenance of facilities in the concession area and therefore again and in this law we also regulate this area, but it is also, of course, true that the 2000 law, according to the decade of application and in view of the changes in the other areas, will survive and therefore need comprehensive renovations. Dearly beloved, the construction of hydroelectric power plants at the bottom of the Sava is the central national project of this country's investment in renewable sources of electricity production. This is not only a Slovenian goal to increase the share of renewable resources, it is a European commitment. And if we do not achieve this, of course, we will also pay penalties, so it is appropriate to speed up all projects that are feasible in this country in the direction of exploiting the energy potential of the Slovenian rivers. I am pleased to see some acceleration in the construction of power plants in the Central Sava and therefore this law, this model of public private partnership, the partnership between the state and energy, can be a good model for creating other important energy-use projects. Both Save in the middle stream and Moore and other projects. That is why I believe that the current consideration of this law has shown great support for this law, and virtually all parliamentary groups support these solutions. I am glad that this is a good journey, that the objectives of this law, that the chain will be built up in 2016, will also be realized. At the time of this hearing, I would like to predict that, because there are no amendments tabled, after the second reading, we will table a harmonisation amendment resulting from the amendments adopted at the second reading and proposed and written on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u287	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivac, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! The Committee on Environment and Space shall meet at its 35th regular session. 9. 2011 discussed the proposal for a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which was sent to the ordinary legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. The committee was co-chaired by proposals for legislation, representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Economy, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, the local community and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition to the basic material, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission on local self-government and regional development of the State Council. The bill was sent to the municipal councils and mayors of the municipalities of Rateče, Sevnica, Krško and Brežice and did not provide a written opinion to the National Assembly until the due date. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the proposer's representative stressed that the main reason for the adoption of the proposed law was to ensure the smooth financing of the further construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava in the future. In view of the fact that construction has taken place so far, there have been some congestions that relate mainly to the financing of that part of the infrastructure financed from the State budget or from the institution's fund on behalf of the State. Therefore, another solution was sought to ensure the smooth financing of the remaining part of the hydroelectric power plant chain. The law thus introduces the possibility of financing part of the infrastructure from the Climate Change Fund, which will be fully operational in 2013, and will be established in the coming year. The Fund of the Institute is thus burdened by the further financing of the construction of part of the infrastructure at the bottom of the Sava hydropower plant and the funds are more targeted at other flood-prone areas. The second reason for the adoption of the law is related to the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which seeks to amend the existing law in relation to a clearer definition of the payment of concessions by concessionaires. Certain problems have also arisen with the law in force in the area of land acquisition and maintenance of water infrastructure facilities, and some provisions of the current law have also survived. The legislative and legal service shall have a general comment on the proposal for a law in respect of its right to return. The proposed law interferes with the existing contractual relationship between the concessionaire, i.e. the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava, d.o.o., and the concessionaire, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. As the bill interferes with the existing concessional relationship, the Legislative and Legal Service points out the problem of the so-called unfair retroactivity, which may make the concessionaire's position worse. At a meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Government was in principle in favour of the proposal for a law, but proposed certain amendments or additions, which he considered should also be taken into account in the law. In its opinion, the Commission supports the local self-government and regional development of the State Council, in particular by finding that the current sources of funding, as the applicant also points out, are by no means sufficient for the planned dynamics of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava. The Commission underlines the importance of implementing this project also for the Slovenian economy, as most of these transactions are carried out by Slovenian companies, which is particularly positive for the development of the economy during this crisis. The representative of the Ministry of Economy said that the Ministry supported the adoption of this law. In the context of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the proposals made by the representatives of the proposers of the bill, the Committee considered the proposed amendments and took them as amendments to the Committee. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments of the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted together on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them unanimously. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which includes the amendments adopted by the Committee, has been corrected pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee therefore proposes that the law be adopted in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u289	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to Dr. Roku Žarnić, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u290	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed mags in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Andrew the Visians, as we have heard. This Act repeals the Public Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava in 2004. Under the current law, two power plants have already been built, and the third is in the execution phase. To a certain extent, the law in force has already been implemented and the proposal for a new law retains its structure and absorbs certain content. The proposed law has been given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia an opinion which supports the law, but points out that it takes into account certain warnings, namely that at systemic level the law represents a departure from other water regulations. At a more specific level, it points out that the assessment of the state of the law should include an analysis of the activities carried out so far and of the funds actually used, including a draft amendment to the financing plan for investments to finance water, state and local infrastructure at a cut-off date; that data on medium annual flows that are the basis for calculating the energy of the available rotational potential of water should be included in the law for the determination of the water refund; that the concessionaire's obligations should not be reduced, the amount of the concession payment should be deducted from the electricity produced in a given calendar year. The government draws attention to the financing issue, in particular to the planned financing of the remaining part of the power plant chain, HE Brežice and HE Mokrice, as it is not certain that this is a stable and sufficient part for such a large and important investment. It is also unclear how funding will be made for the construction of water local infrastructure in the period 2013-2016 if the source is insufficient or is not at all possible in 2013. That the Climate Change Fund is a dedicated fund set up to fund mitigation and adaptation measures. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed law and, of course, draws attention mainly to the question of the financial feasibility of such an important project as the completion of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava. The Climate Change Fund is a dedicated fund set up to co-finance mitigation and adaptation measures. Directive 2009/29/EC explicitly provides that at least 50 % of the revenue from the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances should be used for the purposes which this Directive also requires. Member States need to inform the European Commission of the use of funds every year, and I believe that this will be a very interesting challenge for the future government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u291	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support this proposal for a law that will allow the Climate Change Fund, when, of course, it is established or when it is functional, to take over partial financing for the construction of infrastructure, especially water infrastructure, for the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. We ourselves consider that the Climate Change Fund is a much more appropriate institution to finance this part of the water infrastructure than, of course, the water fund. It is also estimated that the allowances for the sale of CO2 emission vouchers are in fact intended to reduce CO2 emissions and renewable energy production, mainly from a water source, contribute to reducing or not increasing these emissions. From this point of view, we do not, in principle, have any problems, as we have also said on the Committee, and we will support this law. In the Group of Members, we are actively supporting the construction of hydro power plants in general, not only on the lower Sava, but we also expect, we want, and we can do what we can to follow the rapid construction of power plants on the Central Sava, we hope that with less complications, less delay and even less, we could say, various extortions, conditions and so on. The Sava could become a significantly more important energy river than it is today. It runs through central Slovenia, is well filled with watercourses from central Slovenia and has a predominantly circulatory character due to these watercourses, meaning that the river level is very low, from low flow in dry periods to high, i.e. hypnotic flows in water periods or days. That is why the construction of hydroelectric power plants with a water retention system is extremely good and also useful for other measures, if it is properly implemented. In particular, for biodiversity conservation measures, to maintain adequate flow conditions and to address the bad characteristics of large movement in water levels. In this context, however, we hope that there will also be a smart consensus on the installation of the Mosta hydropower plant and the construction of the compensation pool, which should be at the beginning of this process on the Sava River. Water stopping is an important task of water policy and in this context this is also a matter, i.e. in the process of halting water, retaining water and thus maintaining this natural resource for various uses in space. We hope that the Water Fund will later be able to perform other tasks more decisively and more responsibly in the management and maintenance of relevant water regimes in Slovenian waters, and unfortunately it will not be fully burdened by this law. While some questions remain open, for which it is now too late to say that they should be closed because they have already been closed under the concession contract, I would say, above all, that a clear limit and clear cards will have to be set once again in relation to investment and needs or the wishes and demands of local communities. I think that any project that comes into such an environment and causes changes, is responsible for these changes and needs to be remedied, but cannot be an open map for any investment in the local space. We have felt this problem, but we hope that other projects will be better, more consistent and more knowledgeable from this point of view. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u294	Good afternoon, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister-in-Charge! The proposed law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava constitutes a comprehensive upgrade of the existing law, the main purpose of which was to ensure the construction of power plants on the lower Sava and to improve flood protection in Posavje. On the basis of the existing law, two hydropower plants, Boštanj and Blanca were built. Currently, the construction of the Krško hydroelectric power plant is under way, and two power plants, Brežice and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant have not yet started building. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are already drawing attention to the problems in the construction of virtually all hydropower plants in our country, both in the Central Sava and in Mura, where almost nothing has happened in this mandate, as of course in the power plants in the lower Sava, whose construction has been virtually halted two years ago and in the last year it has been intensive. The problems arise in financing projects of this type, as the Water Fund, partly financed by infrastructure for these projects, is overburdened by the increasing frequency of flood protection projects, which practically makes the projects stand. The proposed law therefore provides for the smooth financing of the remaining part of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of Savi by means of the Climate Change Fund, which has already been established by the Environmental Protection Act. The draft law is also in line with the Court of Auditors’ findings on concession payments by the concessionaire and improves the maintenance of facilities in the concession area. As co-proposer of this law and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the funding proposed by this law is appropriate, as it is not currently in the preparation of projects funded by the Climate Change Fund, so we estimate that there will be no similar funding problems in the future and that the construction of the Brežica and Mokrice hydropower plants will take place smoothly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we stress that the completion of the hydroelectric power plant project at the bottom of the Sava is crucial both for our economy and for the flood safety of the entire Posavje. We have long advocated the full exploitation of Slovenia's hydropower potential, so the construction of hydropower plants should be accelerated and the entire hydropotential should be used in the next 15 years. It is necessary to know that practically 90% of the investment in hydropower is the product of Slovenian knowledge, which is inappropriate more than in other sectors of electricity, where we directly or indirectly support the development of other European and, for example, Asian economies. In addition, hydropower generation is a renewable energy source that does not require state subsidies to cover production costs, and in our opinion the construction of hydro power plants will also help create as many as 2 000 jobs over the next 15 years, and this is undoubtedly an opportunity for a development breakthrough of less developed areas such as Posavje, Zasavje and Pomurje. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the proposed law is a good enough basis to accelerate the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava, which in our view will also become a model example of an arrangement that will allow for faster construction of hydropower plants on Mura and the Central Sava. There are many reasons for supporting this bill. It should be borne in mind that water is one of the most important renewable sources in us, which needs to be fully used to produce practically the purest electricity. Given the fact that flood protection against 100-year-old waters is also established through construction, it is therefore clear that the completion of the construction of energy facilities is crucial for both the Posav region and Slovenia as a whole. In the Slovenian People's Party we support the proposal for a law on the conditions for concessions for building the energy potential of the Lower Sava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. As can be seen from the name of the law, a key reason for the adoption of the law is the smooth continuation of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal primarily to relieve the water fund, which is unfortunately currently used primarily to finance the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava, rather than targeting flood-prone areas in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal introduces the possibility of financing part of the infrastructure from the Climate Change Fund, which will be fully operational from 2013. As stated by the applicant, the draft law is also linked to the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which seeks to amend the existing law in conjunction with a clearer definition of the payment of concessions by the concessionaire. At the same time, the bill also removes certain problems that arise from the applicable law in the acquisition of land and the maintenance of water infrastructure facilities. In the DeSUS Group, we will, as we say, support the bill in the hope that the water fund will actually become decommissioned and that the forecasts that so much money will flow into the climate fund will come true between €100 and €120 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u298	Your Honor! Recently there have been many discussions about whether Slovenia needs a TES6, or a second block of nuclear power plant, or wind power plant, or small hydropower plants or something like that. One of the rare real potentials in Slovenia for electricity generation is water, the other is probably coal, and the third is wind, which is being blown away in the future, even though all around us are building such power plants. It is quite a long time ago when the law on the exploitation of the potential of the Sava was introduced into the procedure and our late colleague Ašič was first signed and then Mr Janc and so on, and it was therefore perfectly logical that if we could not build the entire chain under that law – it was meant that the entire chain of the Lower Sava would be built under what was not the case – we reached the point where the law should continue. Of course, there are some other things here that were, say, poorly set up at the time. The Water Fund was one of the resources that is very important. In those days, the most flood - ridden area of Savinja and the region of the lower Sava were the truths of love. Later it was found that they are paying to the water fund from different sources and different ends, i.e. throughout Slovenia, and it is right to go relatively back to the areas. I think that today or yesterday there were questions about how some of the bridge measures in certain other areas are not financed because the state of Slovenia has as much potential as it has. And it is right to separate what the water fund is from the contribution we are paying across Slovenia and what is an investment in energy potentials. If this is due to the Court of Auditors, yes, but it is ultimately about Slovenia having its own electricity supply, and in this case this is the case. We have the potential in the lower Sava, we need to provide resources to make use of this potential, and we will certainly support this bill's proposal, because we have also invested and advocated the previous one from other or different sources, and our belief is basically that all domestic resources, both water and fossil fuels, are needed, from coal, wind and, if there is anything else, to be used, because there will be nothing that we will import, cheaper or more useful than what we can do at home. That is why the Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u300	Mr Vice President, for the last time, thank you for your word. The proposed amendments to the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of energy potential on the Lower Sava must first be found to be necessary and to express disappointment at the fact that the Government has not prepared appropriate changes to the law despite the findings of the Court of Auditors and numerous discussions and warnings in the National Assembly on the inadmissibility of the use of part of the water fund to co-finance investments related to the construction of energy facilities on the lower Sava and consequently inadequate care for the regulation of watercourses and the regulation of flood areas across Slovenia. The proposed law in some but questionable way solves the issue of the obligation to account for and pay the concession fee to which the Court of Auditors has warned and relieves the Water Fund, but repeats the same error as the existing law, only to replace the Water Fund as a financial resource with the Climate Facility, while deliberately or reluctantly repeating the same error to burden half of the future revenue of the Fund solely for one purpose. The law provides an opportunity to learn the same philosophy as used in the existing law, namely that the Water Fund spending programme has not been prepared and is intended to co-finance energy facilities on the Lower Sava. Apparently, the proposaler is also now motivated by the seemingly free resources not yet operational Climate Fund more than a desire for a comprehensive and acceptable and coordinated solution, also useful for other similar energy facilities in Slovenia. There is no dispute over the participation of local communities and its level in concession taxes and there is no dispute over the financing of alternative local and state infrastructures. It is questionable, however, that the financing remained, before the construction of the non-existent infrastructure. The question is whether the envisaged financing of infrastructure in the law does not constitute part of an additional concession fee in kind paid by the State budget and not by the concessionaire. In any event, the provisions of Article 4 and Article 6 which, contrary to the spirit of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, define the intention of the works of the concession, which belong to local communities and even to interference in the Law on Community Financing, which is certainly inappropriate and unusual for a concessional act, even using an undefined or incorrect concept of primary consumption instead of an appropriate consumption. There'll be no misunderstanding. Once again, there is no disputed participation of local communities, but it is inappropriate and exclusive for the area of the lower Sava, it does not look at similar energy facilities across Slovenia, from where the assets flow to the area of the lower Sava twice, once over the low price of the electricity produced or the profits of the holding company, the second through the Water Fund or the future Climate Fund. Of course, this raises the issue of equality before the law. It is necessary to know that the remuneration for local community participation in concessionary duality is of dual importance, namely, once a derogation from the revenue from the exploitation of natural goods belonging to the State; in the second part, it is a compensation for the degradation of the area, which is different from the case in point. In the second part or meaning, it would be possible to consider the purpose of the work of the concessional levy waived, but in the general law, not in the concession act and not in the definition of 'for infrastructure facilities'. For what? Is it for everyone in general in the local community, including those who have nothing to do with the energy use of the lower Sava? Similarly, an unacceptable and unthinkable provision restricting the concessionaire's duties to 14 % of the electricity sales revenue. Which one? At the power plant? In holding company? The first point of the same Article speaks of the value of energy produced. That's two different ideas. This interferes with the jurisdiction of the municipalities in view of the burden of compensation for the use of building land which cannot be charged from infrastructure facilities. However, it is possible to charge it from other buildings in contravention of the principle of future real estate tax, which provides for the taxation of all real estates, including infrastructure taxes. The proposed law is one of the rare cases which in the amendment procedure has not been improved, but in some cases even worsened, and in which despite warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service there is a real conceptual confusion. All this law cannot be supported in the form presented and each member of our parliamentary group will decide on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats we have a different opinion than my predecessor and, of course, we will support the law, not because I am one of the co-signers of the law, but because we feel that some things are much simpler than they seem at first sight. We support this law in terms of both short-term and long-term solutions, its positive effects on the economy, and we also support it because this project is designed to preserve the quality of life, not only of Posavci and Zasavtev, but of all people in the Republic of Slovenia and brings benefits to all countries from several aspects. The law will make it possible to upgrade the previous law of 2000, as Mr Anderlič has already said, in terms of ensuring smooth funding for projects, which was now a key problem, as we know that hydroelectric plants were only being financed with difficulty. It is also crucial that this law covers the construction of flood-related buildings, and it is worth mentioning that the inhabitants, at the already built hydropower plants on the lower Sava, are in Vrhove, Boštanje and Blanca, have not suffered material damage in the last floods, unlike Krske and Brežice, and I believe that we will also solve this serious problem by building hydropower plants. The law preserves or improves relations between the concessionaire and the concessionaire who manages the energy infrastructure on the lower Sava in accordance with the concession. In the Group of Members, we would like to see a similar relationship between concessionaires and concessionaires in other areas of energy infrastructure and then on to the Central Sava. We are confident that the law will allow the completion of the construction of the remaining plants on the lower Sava. We believe that, sooner or later, the proposal will burden at least a little with the Water Fund, that other users or other municipalities in the local self-government across Slovenia will also benefit from it, and that more anti-float infrastructures can be created by means and will reverse all these problems that are now. However, we are confident that this law will in some way satisfy the Court of Auditors. As we say, we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u303	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u304	Dearly beloved, welcome again! I, as the first-signed proposer, am pleased to be able to conclude presentations on the views of the groups of Members when it is concluded that the vast majority of the groups in the group will really support this bill. Of course, it will also be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. This is because it is a good law because it is an effective project and I would point out that it is not only an energy project. This project is also important in a different sense, in terms of flood protection of Posavje and the life and property of Posavci. The recent floods, about a year ago, were also extremely devastating for Posavia. At that time, honourable Members, you could watch television recordings of incredibly high water in all Posav municipalities and where hydropower plants were already built, for example in the municipality of Sevnica, there was minimal damage due to these floods, while the growing water was particularly affected by the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk and, of course, also by the Municipality of Brežica. The key purpose of this project is also to resolve flood safety in the bottom of the Sava River, in particular in the Krško-Brežiški Field, because there is not yet a built-in infrastructure to offer it. That is why we want to provide a stable financial source for the continuation of the construction and I call on the Minister to do everything he can to correct what his ministry has not done. Thus, when adopting national spatial plans for both hydropower plants covering a good part of the Krko-Brežičsko field, an effective flood protection programme is also being made to ensure that measures for this flood protection will be implemented through the first and second State Spatial Plan, namely the State Spatial Plan for Brežice and Krška, and that it does not come into the local community with proposals if we do something in half at the Brežice hydroelectric plant, then it will be time for us to do something else along with the Mokrice hydropower plant. These solutions are unacceptable to us. It is a Krško-Breziška field, it is a plain and we do not know how to imagine effective flood measures if we divide the plane in half. First, it is necessary to know whether there will be a deepening of the Sava stream downstream of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, since this has an extremely important impact on the flood protection of this part. It would therefore be final for us to unify the positions of the services within the Ministry of Environment and Space in order to reach the end as soon as possible with these programmes and solutions, including the State Spatial Plan, and that we will actually be able to start building. The very important impact of this project is also agricultural. The karst-Brezisko field is a fertile field and we are facing a fall of groundwater and frequent droughts, it was this year too. Water from the accumulation pools will be able to serve irrigation. Accumulation pools will ensure the rise of groundwater and I think this is also a good sign for the development of farming in this part of Slovenia, which is fertile and where agriculture has roots. Therefore, I would like to say that this project is a multilateral project, not only an energy project, but also an environmental one, it is also a flood-proof one, and it is also a step towards the development of agriculture. And the traces of this, of course, must play the proactive role of the Ministry of Environment and Space, on which it is also most dependent in the final phase. Minister, I expect that you will, of course, meet these problems or tasks, but not sow scepticism here, that you will not even implement the law that requires you to revive the Climate Change Fund in 2013. The funds must be provided if you want to comply with the European Directives and the resources will be sufficient to build the remaining hydropower plants on the bottom of the Sava. So, I sincerely hope that all these permits will occur as soon as possible and that in fact, as the law states, the chain of hydroelectric power plants will be built by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u305	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the ownership of a lotteries of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of eighteen Members and Members with the first-signed France Yuri. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mrs Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, nice evening! In 1996, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, which also defined the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations with the most important function, which is the care of fair and rational distribution of funds from gambling between disabled and humanitarian organisations. Unfortunately, since 1997, since the adoption of the amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, the practice has shown that this objective has not been achieved to a satisfactory extent. The changes that we are considering and adopting today have been made, and some individuals do not agree, in dialogue with the public concerned, with persons with disabilities and humanitarian organisations. Support for solutions was shown by YHD, Soček Society, Association of Disabled Communities, Silva Fund and the National Forum of Humanitarian Organisations, which brings together 92 humanitarian organisations. During the parliamentary process, even before the hearing on the working body, we also tried to obtain concrete proposals from the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, but we did not get any constructive proposals other than sharp words and discredits. A key problem that arises in the practice of the FIHO Council is the conflict of interest both within the FIHO Council itself and between organisations that have the right to run for or are recipients of FIHO funds. In addition to other tasks, the FIHO Council also has the competence to determine the criteria and conditions for the use of the Foundation's funds for individual purposes and to allocate funds between users. Both the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission point out the shortcomings and traps of the current law. Many suggestions were made on how to remedy perceived irregularities. We say that the proposed solutions in the amendment of the law are following this very objective. The Court of Auditors issued two opinions, 2004 and 2009, and the audit reports do not praise the situation, but have been submitted with reservation. The highest core of the criticism was given to objective criteria for assessing and evaluating the applications to be used in the allocation of financial resources to users. Of these findings, it has been a long time since the last report for three years, and it is only now that he has seen the light of the draft methodology proposal, which should have been tested for the first time only four years after this report, that is to say in 2012. The Anti-Corruption Commission has found that there is an unacceptable duplication of the functions of persons acting in the FIHO Council in principle. 137. At the same time, the President of the Lottery Supervisory Board is the President of the National Social Protection Association, a member of the FIHO Council, the President of the Commission for Social Protection, work, health care and disabled persons in the State Council, the President of the Disabled Society, the Council of State, which all points to a number of interconnected, intertwined and dependent functions. It is "the specific circumstances in which private interest can influence or create the appearance of having an impact on impartial and objective performance", wrote the Anti-Corruption Commission. In addition, this Commission has found a number of irregularities and inconsistencies, suggesting the risk that some corrupt and other illegal acts may occur. The most questionable and controversial is that someone decides to distribute funds at the same time and is also a user. Therefore, in accordance with Article 47 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Commission also decided that FIHO should draw up an integrity plan and assess corruption risks. Conscious of all the above-mentioned facts, amendments to the Property Change Act of the Loteria Slovenije, we are first of all changing the composition of the FIHO Council, as the current method of appointment to the FIHO Council makes it possible for conflicts of interest. The number of members and members of the Council is decreasing, humanitarian and disability organisations will be equally represented, and by equal consideration of disability organisations, the members of the NSIOS, who are truly pooling the majority, are preventing the exclusion of minority disability organisations. In Article 2, we add restrictions on who cannot be a member of the Council of the Foundation because of the possibility of conflict of interest. I am sure that, on the basis of what has been said in the Chamber, there will be little doubt about supporting the proposed changes, but in the future, I would like to see that the legislative solutions that threaten public interest can be made by the National Assembly faster than in this case, since the warning of conflicts of interest, the untransparent operation of FIHO and the possible unintended use of resources has been much more pronounced in recent years. I invite you to uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u307	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u308	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 34th meeting, on 5 October 2011, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Yuri. Following a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly, adopted at its 113th meeting, it was examined following a reduced procedure. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on Articles 1, 2 and 3. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 29 September, in which the Government supports the bill, was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak. The Commission for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council did not support the bill in their opinion. Mr Šuštaršič presented the oral opinion at the Committee meeting. The committee's got the material for the session, you have the review in your report, and I'm not going to read it all. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments were tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed France Yuri to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 and by the SDS Group of Members to Articles 2 and 4. The representative of the candidates, Franco Juri, gave an introductory explanation of the draft law. He said that the proposed changes would make the structure and relationship within the FIHO Council more balanced and more equitable, allowing it to function more consistently and more effectively. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that their comments had been taken into account in the amendments tabled by the group of Members with the first-signed France Yuri and pointed out their comment to the second subparagraph of Article 6(2), if it was unclear because it was not clear whether it was only contracts of work or perhaps author contracts. Finally, she mentioned that the two-month deadline for implementing changes in the composition of the FIHO Council was, as the Government also pointed out in its opinion. In the context of the discussion of the individual members, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law laying down the composition of the FIHO Council and the amendments tabled thereto. In a long and momentary debate, in which a number of invited Members and Members were included in a series, two conflicting views could not be drawn together. One group strongly defended the bill; the other group opposed the bill. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the group of Members with the first-signed France Yuri to Articles 2, 3 and 4 but did not adopt the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed France Yuri to Article 1. Let me point out that this is the signature of the leader of the parliamentary group, not on behalf of the proposers, but of the persons who overlap. However, the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2 and 4 have become irrelevant. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has drawn up and adopted an amendment to Article 1. Following a discussion on the articles of the law and on the amendments, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u309	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. You're giving up. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u310	Dear Members and Members! It is likely that this law is the first shortest law following the unfortunate fall of the archival law, which, before the hearing of the National Assembly, has been marked by an incredibly large amount of ink and countless conflicting facts presented to us Members, which have certainly not facilitated our decisions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were constantly detained for the proposed legal proposal, for we wanted to get a complete picture of the operation of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations – FIHO and those responsible at the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. As has already been said, there were countless facts that either supported the proposed law or clearly opposed it, and the authors of the letters often did not collect the means and words to express their support for the proposed new amendments to the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we cannot agree with the way in which the law has been drawn up, which has bypassed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Disability Organisations, which confers rights on persons with disabilities in the preparation of legislation in the field of concern and substantive interference with the relationship between disability organisations. However, this argument, which was practically the only more recognizable argument of the National Council of Disability Organisations, cannot, in our view, be the only reason to oppose this law. The content is important, and of course the reasons that have led to the situation as it is now. At the very least, if not even criminally, the work of the FIHO Council in allocating funds to individual disability organisations, where the same people sitting as the leading representatives are sitting in the FIHO Council and deciding on the allocation of funds. Undoubtedly, there have been irregularities in the division of EUR 20 million each year by the FIHO Council in recent years that do not comply with the principles of transparency, democracy, the prohibition of conflict of interest and non-discrimination, which should work for all disabled and humanitarian organisations in Slovenia. The key documents that the Slovenian People's Party's Group has finally convinced us in its majority support for this legislative proposal were an assessment of the FIHO's corruption exposure, prepared by the Commission to prevent corruption, in which it fully clarifies and draws attention to the risk exposure to corruption, thus referring to the Court of Auditors' observations and the rulings of the Administrative Court. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore agree with the majority of the amendments identified by the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and go towards a more balanced representation of all disability and humanitarian organisations in the FIHO Council, not only of the members of the National Council. The changes are also going towards reducing the number of members of the Council, which, in our view, will also improve its operationality. We also assess that the provisions on a more precise definition of the conditions for appointment to the FIHO Council will help to increase transparency in operation and reduce the possibility of conflict of interest, which will indirectly help to improve the allocation of public funds available to the financing of disabled and humanitarian organisations. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore estimate that the proposed changes are welcome and positive, so we will not oppose the proposed law in the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u311	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u312	Say good-bye to everyone again! The proposed amendment of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije raised the most dust due to the proposed amendments to Article 1 and 2 of the current legislature of the Articles laying down the composition of the FIHO Council, which would finally address or resolve the issue of conflicts of interest within the FIHO Council and thus receive and use funds for organisations eligible for these funds. Unfortunately, with regard to the proposed changes in the allocation of funds, the Foundation is not uniform even in the disability organisations. As is known, they are most opposed to the changes in the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, where they claim that the law is non-professional and that it is not intended to represent the interests of persons with disabilities and should allow policy interference. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that such flat-rate assessments, the allegations are unjustifiable, and we fully understand some who oppose the changes, as they will lead to better control over the purposeful use of funds in disability organisations and to increase the transparency and accountability of users of funds. In the SNS, we have been thoroughly informed of some facts that in fact demonstrate the lack of transparency in the business, management, decision-making and control processes of public funding sharing, as the competent national authorities have already identified several times, and it is also possible to conclude from reports of the interest of supervision. We agree that a balanced representation of disability and humanitarian organisations should be established and that smaller organisations that are not included in the national council should also be able to cooperate and are thus in some way discriminated against. It is interesting that they feel the most affected officials of the National Council who are only interested and, above all, in the distribution of money due to the changes announced. And it's not a little money. Let us be aware that it is 20 million euros and more. Some officials who so far hold hands with these funds are not aware of the principle that FIHO should not normally generate surplus income over expenditure. However, if this is the case, it is not simply a matter of spending at the wishes and decisions of a handful of officials, but it is necessary to spend resources strictly solely for the purposes prescribed by law or to transfer them into use in the following calendar year. It is true that only the proposed changes will not definitively resolve all open issues concerning the elimination of conflicts of interest or ensure the ideally equal and fair and purposeful distribution and use of those funds. However, they will at least slightly reject all too obvious looting of disability money and will allow mechanisms and safeguards against mixing with funds and ensure a fairer sharing of money between all disabled and humanitarian organisations. Last but not least, repeated irregularities in the past have also been found by the Court of Auditors and several times by the Commission to prevent corruption. It found a conflict of interest in the situation in which the President of the State Lottery Supervisory Board is at the same time the President of the National Social Protection Association, the member of the Council of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, the President of the Commission for Social Protection, the work, health care and disabled persons in the State Council, and the President of the Disabled Society and the State Councillor also Director of the Bureau of BORI and so on. What more could indicate a conflict of interest? As a result of this and some other facts that have convinced us, we support the proposed amendments to the law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia are intended to allow more coherent and more successful operation of the Foundation by changing the structure of the world and the interrelationship between stakeholders represented in the world. Representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must, in their work in FIHO, pursue the public interest and interests of all users, not only the organisations represented in the world. The proposed amendment, a reduction in the number of members of the FIHO Council from 30 to 23, will also contribute to reducing the operational costs of the Foundation. The adoption of amendments to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations allows the Foundation to use the funds derived from expenditure surpluses for other purposes as well. Since the funds of the Foundation are earmarked, it seems to us that foundations should not generate surplus income over expenditure on funds for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations or sports organisations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation. The revenue from the surplus over expenditure should be allocated only to the increase in the assets of the Foundation or to the financing of the programme and services of disabled and humanitarian organisations or sports organisations referred to in the preceding paragraph in the following calendar year. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the proposed changes are appropriate and will also contribute to the more transparent and better functioning of FIHO in view of the debate on the parent committee in the general public. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the law, but not the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u315	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u316	Have a nice hello again. FIHO is a key institution for financing disability and humanitarian organisations in our country. With the Property Conversion Act, the State has dedicated part of the funds raised by the lottery to allocate funds to users, but these funds will not lose their public character. FIHO thus has a total of EUR 20 million annually and it is therefore important that the funds are shared in a transparent and proportionate manner. The Group of Social Democrats supports the efforts of the drafters of the Law, whose main purpose is to improve the protection of the public interest and the interest of disabled and humanitarian organisations in a transparent, legal and non-discriminatory manner. In doing so, it should be stressed that the proposals for solutions contained in the novels follow the findings of the institutions of the State that are watching over the legality of its work, in particular the Court of Auditors and the Commission to prevent corruption. Both institutions and the administrative court have repeatedly pointed out errors in the operation of FIHO. And not after all. The proposed amendments follow the public efforts of humanitarian and disability organisations to establish, within the FIHO Council, the highest body of the Foundation, a numerical balance between representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations. Once again, I would like to deny the absence of consultation with representatives of the National Council of Disability Organisations. In the process, we talked to them, but there was no dialogue with them, because the empire "shares and reigns" is not being threatened. More specifically, the objectives of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia relate to the changes of the FIHO Council, with which the relationship between representatives of disabled and humanitarian organisations would be numerically balanced. The structure and number of users and the number of individual types of organisations have changed significantly since the foundation was established in 1998. In 1998, 14 representative disability organisations and 27 humanitarian organisations worked and in 2011 the number of disabled organisations doubled and the number of humanitarian organisations tripled. The proposal also brings down the members of the FIHO Council from 30 to 23, making the Council more operational. It also foresees that disability organisations in the world will no longer have an absolute majority but equal to 10 members' representations. Thus, the structure of the FIHO Council will take more account of the real relationship between the different types of organisations. However, a further change in the FIHO structure, brought by the novelty, is a representation of disability organisations in the way that the National Assembly takes account of the relationship between the National Council of Disability Organisations and its member disability organisations, as well as those organisations that do not participate. The second amendment to the novel is to prevent conflicts of interest in the FIHO Council, by making the amendment of the law a provision set out in Article 2, which defines who cannot be in the foundation's world. Such arrangements will prevent any conflicts of interest or situation where the responsible person, disability or humanitarian organisation, as an investor, decides on the allocation of funds at the Foundation’s invitation to tender. However, the third amendment concerns a more transparent use of funds, as a rule the Foundation should not create surpluses if this occurs, and the financing should be used by law for the next calendar year, given that FIHO funds are strictly earmarked. The Committee's debate has shown that the opinion in the amendment of the law has been divided, but we believe that it is crucial that the government, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and representatives of humanitarian and also some disability organisations have expressed support for the amendment. In the context of the Committee's consideration, we have adopted some amendments that have significantly improved the content of the law. We believe that the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia will allow for more balanced and transparent financing of disability and humanitarian organisations with a view to achieving public interest, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u317	Thank you. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u318	Good-bye to all of you. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members. The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia has been amended several times, most often in the work that sets out the composition of the Council of the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations. Members and Members of Parliament have been repeatedly involved in decisions relating to equal or fair representation, in the case of FIHOs and humanitarian organisations, whether there is a real relationship between them in the number of members and whether the allocation ratio is fair. We have before us a new law that brings about changes in the number and relationship between members of the world who come from the types of disabled and humanitarian organisations. What is worth supporting is a reduction in the number of members, which means rationalisation and we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In view of the fact that the two foundations were repeatedly under the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors, the anti-corruption commissions and other bodies, they are welcome to provide for measures to prevent conflicts of interest. In the Slovenian Democratic Republic, we proposed an amendment that would extend the restrictions on disabled and humanitarian organisations to the field of sport organisations, as we were also informed of irregularities by sports organisations. Moreover, the government in leaving us as director of the Sports Foundation offers us a man who has already performed this function and this has been poor since irregularities have been proven. Our amendment to restrict the possibility of abuse was not accepted. We have received several letters, including from the National Council of Disabled Organizations and the Ombudsman, which cautions that the law has been adopted without coordination with the disability organisations, which would be a poor traveller. We heard it wasn't like that. Because of the position expressed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not have a unified position and will vote in our conscience, we will not really oppose the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u319	Thank you. Mr Franci Kek will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u320	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really support the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, because unfortunately the practice has shown to this day that the law in force allows and allows for the unfair sharing of funds, conflicts of interest, including corruption, and public interest is forgotten. The problem that many have been alerting for a number of years is, above all, a conflict of interest within the FIHO Council, as well as between organisations that have the right to run for or are recipients of FIHO funds. It is therefore crucial that the amendment of the law amend the composition of the FIHO Council and balance the representatives of humanitarian organisations and disability organisations. It is also very welcome to make changes in the direction of facilitating cooperation to those who have not had or had it to a reduced extent or who have been found to have been discriminated against in a certain way. It also seems appropriate and reasonable for us to determine who cannot be a member of the Foundation's Council because of the possibility of conflict of interest, and as the only appropriate solution, we also see that resources from the surplus of expenditure can be allocated only to increase the assets of the Foundation or to finance programmes and services of disabled and humanitarian organisations. As many have already mentioned before me, the shortcomings of the current law are pointed out both by the Court of Auditors and by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and by the Supreme Court's decisions pointing to difficulties in transparency in the allocation process. Let me conclude by quoting the statement made by Goran Klemenčič, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at the time of its consideration. "This is a unique example of any institution of public law which still allows such a kind to express a conflict of interest. FIHO is an entity of public law and has public funds, with about 20 million public funds per year." In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposed solutions to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u321	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Employment of Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u322	Good day and thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 30th meeting, on 12 July 2011, the National Assembly held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The amendment to Article 36 of the Law was also supported in this debate. The fact is that this law introduces our legal order, which has been in force since 2008 or since the end of August, and is necessary to ensure the legalisation of state aid to disabled companies. Unfortunately, the long way to harmonise this law, the first attempts started already before 2008, we are now in 2011, the disabled companies have been informed throughout this period of the fact that changes in this area will have to be made, all this delay, the delay in proposing an amendment is not acceptable mainly because, unfortunately, we are clearly speaking to the European Commission and Brussels that we are not today respecting the regulation that we should and that we do not intend to do so for another year, which is very controversial in terms of the legalisation of these state aids, which are intended for disabled companies, which must also receive a state aid scheme approved by Brussels. I therefore urge you not to support the proposed amendment today or when you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u323	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. Also this time a nice greeting to everyone in the hall, including the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled! As we announced in the DeSUS Group at the second reading of the law, we will vote in favour of the adoption of the law. For the law brings about the necessary changes, which are dictated by the inevitable need to comply with European legislation. The law in force is amended in certain provisions, including with a view to increasing the effectiveness of the law, preventing violations of the law, facilitating the application and setting up of the procedure for users. In addition, the novelty brings a series of innovations designed to achieve and achieve the goals and objectives set by the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act to the fullest extent, in favour of persons with disabilities. Of course, it should be stressed that the reform of the law brings a lot of positive changes for the disabled. The co-financing of wages for persons with disabilities is increasing, the cash receipt of employees involved in employment rehabilitation from 30 to 40 % of the minimum wage, disabled companies and employment centres will have to spend more than so far on profits for the purpose of increasing the basic capital of legal reserves or to spend it for the same purpose as the envisaged state aid funds for relief and relief, and some of the profits will be paid to workers by disabled companies. The protected workplace will also be able to be offered by a disabled company. We also welcome the novelty in the law, which gives the disabled worker a shorter working time, the employer pays his retirement on the basis of which is calculated on the basis of full-time work, since the economic situation of the disabled person on the basis of the salary is already worse given the level of the non-disabled worker's salary. Let us agree that it is right, at least in this part, to align itself with its co-worker when the situation of termination of the employment relationship arises. In order to comply with European legislation, the novelty requires disabled companies to achieve a higher percentage of the employment of disabled persons, i.e. 50 % if they wish to impose State aid exemptions on all employees. Disability companies fear that they will not be able to meet the new conditions, which means the loss of these funds or their assessment of possible dismissals, and have therefore proposed a transitional period of one year in which state aid for protected employment can be obtained as before. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we do not want the operation of disabled companies to be affected in any way, but in particular we do not want the disabled to be harmed alone in any way. But we know the next thing. The Regulation in question governing State aid has been in force since 2008. Indeed, since we have been late for its implementation in our legal order, we have been in breach of European legislation. In our Group of Members, we are aware of the consequences of the violations, so we cannot support the amendment to Article 36. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u325	Thank you. Mag. Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u326	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The new Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is necessary in order to comply with European Union legislation and is complemented by certain other provisions which have been shown to require minor changes and additions during their application and evaluation. This will help to limit the effectiveness of the law and make it easier to apply it and also to simplify the process for users. Key changes in the proposed law are the definition of control over the use of the derogations for the introduction of mandatory audit, the use of derogations, the extension of the grounds for withdrawal of the status of the disabled undertaking or of the employment centre, more detailed arrangements in the process of enforcing financial incentives for employers. These procedures are already governed by the Regulation on the establishment of a quota for the employment of persons with disabilities, but this will now be regulated by the legal material and compulsory vocational education for professional workers providing employment rehabilitation services, members of rehabilitation commissions and professionals in disabled companies and employment centres, thereby raising the professional level of their work. The proposal also introduces changes in other financial incentives, such as the financing of job and resource adjustments and support for the employment of the most difficult persons with disabilities. It also raises the level of cash benefits for the duration of employment rehabilitation from 30% to 40% of the minimum wage to promote the inclusion of unemployed persons in these services. In 2009, a new network of job rehabilitation providers was adopted for the period 2010 to 2013, which envisions a thousand 700 persons per year who will be involved in employment rehabilitation services and will be posted to the Service by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. According to data from the Slovenian Employment Institute, between March and October 2010 the monthly remuneration for employment rehabilitation was on average 247 persons with disabilities. Some of the proposed provisions in the law could radically affect the current situation of disabled companies and their employees. The monitoring of the implementation of the quota system for the employment of disabled persons over disabled companies and employment centres shall be tightened. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the compromise solution that an employer who does not meet the quota with the disabled and has a contract of business with a disabled company or employment centre may reduce the obligation to pay the contribution to promote employment of disabled persons by implementing the quota in place. The bill also allows the sanctioning of offenders to a significantly greater extent than has been the case so far. The employer shall, as an employee of a quota that does not meet the quota, pay, by including the last day of the month for the previous month, a contribution fund to promote the employment of persons with disabilities of 70% of the minimum wage for each disabled person to be employed in order to fulfil the quota prescribed. It will also focus on the acquisition and use of funds received by employers for the employment of persons with disabilities. We agree with the proposed innovations in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our position does not change with regard to the position we have presented in the past. We therefore estimate that the Republic of Slovenia is socially sensitive, favoured by disabled and other handicapped groups; we estimate that it promotes such activities, which reduce the need for passive measures, and even a number of other good wages could be listed in relation to the relationship between the state, regulation and persons with disabilities, and probably no longer make sense to repeat this. That all of this – this positive discrimination, this active approach, this promotion for the greatest possible integration of the people with disabilities – is what we attach to it. However, we note the problem that has arisen in this law, which we have repeated for the most affected, in the past and which we intend to repeat today. In their letters, persons with disabilities have found that in the last period they feel they are slightly reduced in support, financial assistance. They may also have in mind the law that has just been dealt with, as well as the law that we are now considering. And we have assessed that it is right to listen to them and that, with the amendment we have proposed, we should once again encourage reflection without being sure that this amendment will be supported. However, we believe that when the law eliminates the weaknesses that have been observed and introduces measures or improves certain measures that allow for better social integration of people with disabilities, there may be a hurry to implement this law or regulation of 2008 now that we have been late for so many years. Let me just remind you of the debate that took place today with regard to the media law, where the representative of the Government also acknowledged that with implementation in that area, the Government had been late, but was constantly trying not to be sanctioned by the European authorities, by means of which she sought to prove that she was preparing the right solutions. All of this could probably be done by the Government in this case and possibly present some sanctions and with what certainty we would be affected if we, too, extended the requirement that the quota 50:50 be applied as soon as this law is passed. We think it would be worth reconsidering. We estimate that if sanctions were to occur at all, they would be smaller than the consequences for companies employing disabled persons if this law is implemented in such a short time. It is true that we have now gained about three months since the summer when we discussed this. We do not know whether these companies have managed better to prepare, but we do know that the requirements are quite substantial, that it is difficult to provide, not only jobs, but also technological equipment and markets, that is, buyers of those products that are supposed to be produced by more people with disabilities, or that those who are healthy should be forgiven and replaced by persons with disabilities. All of this could affect the economy of these companies. And those who are most interested in expressing their views on this have estimated that jobs are being threatened or even individual companies are being threatened. The fact that we have concerns about the immediate implementation of new quotas does not mean that we would now withdraw our support from the Group of Non-Aligned Members to those good measures that the law brings. We believe, however, that in this area, as in some other areas, we could engage in dialogue with the bodies of the European Union and not be overly humble in putting our heads on our noses and implementing what we have not been able to handle in three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u329	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u330	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, nice greeting again! In the course of the examination of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the National Assembly, we have found that there are several reasons for the adoption of this law, both Members and Lawmakers from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In their views, virtually all parliamentary groups stressed that the main reason for amending and supplementing the law is to comply with the rules of the European Union, in particular by a regulation which prescribes the State aid granted to employers for the purpose of hiring persons with disabilities and for the purposes for which such aid may be used. Other amendments to the law have also been made to the debate, which will make it possible to improve the feasibility and effectiveness of the law and some solutions that will contribute to the greater employability of persons with disabilities. The key dilemma that we are facing today, as is evident from the debates so far, is to what extent we will recognize our common interest, that is to support the law that aligns Slovenia's rule of law with the acquis of the European Union. It should be pointed out that the specifics for the operation of Slovenian disabled companies were such that our country would have the opportunity to present them at the time of the creation or adoption of the regulation. At that time, we had the opportunity to influence the functioning of the content of the provision, which, of course, has the greatest impact on the operation of disabled companies, this is Article 42. In short, it was already late in 2007 and 2008. We are aware that the implementation of the General Block Exemption Regulation in the field of State aid entails certain restrictions that will affect business operations, but we have already stressed in previous discussions that this Regulation has been in force since 2008, and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has started the process of coordination with the representatives of disabled enterprises in 2007 in keeping with this change. It ends in 2011 and we can only find that Slovenia is already quite late with appropriate legal adjustments. Therefore, for principle reasons, the Social Democrats cannot support the amendment to Article 35 of the bill tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. With the support of the transitional period, the law would extend the situation of non-compliance for a further year with the part of the General Block Exemption Regulation, which lays down additional eligible costs for employers who employ disabled persons. However, it should be clarified that the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act does not prescribe a quota of 50 % of disabled persons to obtain or maintain the status of a disabled company, nor does it prescribe that disabled companies must provide for protection of employment. The condition of achieving 50 % of the quota for disabled persons shall apply only if the disabled companies purchase new premises or equipment with input contributions, as defined in the fourth indent of Article 42 of the Regulation. In short, the condition of achieving the quota of 50 % of the quota of disabled persons employed relates to the specific situation. The novelty of the Employment Rehabilitation Act, in addition to the urgent adjustments for disabled companies, also brings a number of good solutions, which is under-emphasis in the debates. In this way, state aid will be used to subsidise salaries and the remaining costs of hiring disabled persons, up to 75 % of the cost of working with a disabled person, the cost of adapting the premises, the cost of hiring staff for the time they use to assist persons with disabilities, and the cost of purchasing and adapting software and technology equipment. In our work, the Social Democrats are always committed to strengthening the rights of people with disabilities. In this respect, we believe that the amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act on disabled persons in the field of the business of disabled companies brings both limitations and new opportunities. We also believe that the legislation of the European Union must be implemented consistently in the Slovenian legal order, and that is why the Social Democrats will support the draft law in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u331	Thank you. Mag. Stefan Tisell will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u332	Once again a lovely greeting, honored present! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. The amendment of the law is necessary in order to adapt and comply with the 2008 European Regulation. The law should allow greater employability of persons with disabilities, increase their social inclusion, provide opportunities for equal participation of persons with disabilities in the labour market, allow adequate employment and also allocate more resources for active measures in the field of employment of persons with disabilities. The new law also provides greater control over the implementation of the quota system for the employment of persons with disabilities between disabled companies and employment centres and the definition of control over the use of deferred contributions by introducing a mandatory review of the consumption of the derogations. It also extends the grounds for the withdrawal of the status of a disabled company or employment centre. More specifically, it lays down procedures for the enforcement of financial incentives by employers, provides for compulsory vocational education for professional workers providing employment rehabilitation services, and brings changes to other financial incentives, such as the financing of workplace adjustment and support for the employment of the most difficult persons with disabilities. The law provides for an increase in the remuneration for the duration of the employment rehabilitation period from 30% to 40% of the minimum wage in order to promote the inclusion of unemployed persons in these services. Although the bill was coordinated with social partners, including disability organisations, some of the solutions remained unemployed, or would have affected disabled workers in existing disabled companies. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we listened to proposals from the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and in the second reading of the law we supported amendments that improved the status of disabled companies and were largely accepted. Because the real situation in disabled companies is the same as in the entire Slovenian economy and the negative consequences of the economic and financial crisis are also shown here. Today, we have an amendment on the table once again proposing another year of transitional period for disabled companies to meet the condition of 50% of disabled workers so that they can receive state aid for all permitted purposes. Now it is sufficient for companies to employ $40 disabled people to receive such incentives. We will not oppose this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. As I have already mentioned, we will not object to the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u333	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u334	Thank you again very much for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law has been subject to heated debates as it has brought significant changes to the business of disabled companies and employment centres. In particular, the opposition has experienced excessive tightening of the provisions on the reporting of beneficiaries of disability benefits and provisions on exemptions and benefits in the payment of contributions for the employment of persons with disabilities. The latter are linked to the fulfilment of the quota for disabled workers, which was raised from the novel from the existing 40% to 50%, which requires significant structural changes and adjustments to business strategies from disabled companies, in particular during the economic crisis. In the third reading, there are still outstanding important issues that are crucial for the efficient operation or even survival of disabled companies, in particular the question of the application of the provisions of the law. The results of intensive coordination among stakeholders are the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee to almost all articles summarizing most of the proposed amendments and improving the text of the law. The obligation to report monthly to disabled companies, which has changed into an annual reporting obligation on State aid received and spent, is certainly one of the positive changes adopted. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party believe that it is entirely unrealistic to expect that disabled companies will be able to adapt within 15 days of the adoption of the law adequately to the new, tighter requirements regarding the fulfilment of the quota for disabled persons. In a very short period of time, it is difficult to employ more people with disabilities, as they need to be properly trained for individual work and to provide them with adequate jobs, and as a basis for expanding employment, to develop new business strategies. It should be appropriate to introduce an increase in the quota gradually or it should allow companies sufficient time to adapt to the new requirements on the basis of the postponement of application of the law. Disability companies and employment centres represent active participants in the sphere of the economy, which must adapt to the situation of the latter as well as other companies. In view of the current economic situation, when businesses that do not employ persons with disabilities face major problems, it is not necessary to stress that disabled companies face even larger ones. Therefore, when we consider this law carefully, we need to examine whether we are really going to establish order in the field of the business of these companies or whether this law can endanger 14,000 jobs, as is estimated to be in these companies. At that time, we must also consider ensuring the right conditions for maintaining or even increasing the large number of jobs, including those with disabilities. We therefore support the amendment to Article 35, which, at the same time, allows state aid to be used in disabled companies from the date of application of this law exclusively within the framework of the provisions of the European Regulation and the transitional period is intended to give disabled companies time to meet the formal condition of employment of 50%, and until then, the condition remains 40% of the employment of disabled persons. With regard to the claims that the accounts of disabled companies contain a circus of €70 million of unspent financial resources, we have found that these are assets that have been in fact long since been used in large majority but are still in the balance sheets of disabled companies as long-term passive time limits. Due to the proposed restrictions and the tightening of permitted uses, there is a risk that some of the funds that may not be used will continue to be actually unused. The amendment adopted by the Committee to Article 36 solves this problem by allowing for the separate bookkeeping of unused state aid, which has already been established and time-limited in the records, and thereby allowing businesses to use any remaining funds in accordance with legal purposes. We expect the amendment to be adopted by 35. Article, and because of all that I have said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u335	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr Rezman has the floor to prepare Mr Krizman. Mr. Rezman. No, no, no. Mr. Crossman, you have the floor to prepare Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. The proposal for changes and the amendment of the law brings a lot if I may say, according to home, good. Above all, we are going almost back to where we used to be, and I expect that all of this will also be true, but I am particularly reminding you of Articles 13, 16, 18, which speak of course about financing, returning money, achieving quotas and so on, and thus associated control, that, of course, what happened immediately after 1990, when such companies were also the target of an early enrichment attempt. In fact, in most cases they have failed, but they have been the target of rapid wealth in combination with state money, as is the case here. I am sure that this is one of the better laws, because workers with disabilities who today cannot do their job will find their job in these companies and will be fully profited, even if they only work for four hours, they will be regressed, they will receive everything that could not happen to them anywhere else. So I'm happy to support this law. It's 30,000, 400 people with disabilities. In Cyprus we had large disability workshops, unfortunately some of the masters have lost them, so I hope that this will all be restored and even a few people are waiting for this law. Now, since I will no longer take the floor later, honourable President, let me say that the amendment proposed by the unrelated Members will not be supported, not because I would not like to support it, but I do not think it is right to wait for the marriage to take place again one year. We've been having this marriage for quite some time, and now it's right in front of us. I hope that we will adopt it in Parliament, and there is no need to bring in a one-year transitional period and actually postpone it. In some parts it is also well-intentioned, but I think it is high time that the law is applied, that we begin to apply it and that this chapter is also successfully concluded. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr Bezjak has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Tessel. Mr. Bezjak. No, no, no. Mr. Tessel. No, no, no. Mrs. Black Nebula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u338	Thank you. It would be difficult to say anything new, since I have already said most of the information in the presentation of the Group's position. Once again, I would say that it is a positive law and how we welcome the work of disabled companies in the Slovenian space, because it is a truly great opportunity to employ those who have problems involving them in a highly competitive labour market. However, I would like to point out that we may wake up too late in our compliance with the rules of the European Union, or that we are now putting an extension of the deadline into trouble because we will have some difficulty in presenting this law if it is adopted by means of a supplement, as proposed by colleagues of unrelated Members. It is a fact that the deadline was four years and that all this time intensive negotiations have been held, as well as the search for solutions that could in some way have pursued both objectives, optimal conditions for the functioning of disabled enterprises on the one hand and, on the other hand, compliance with the European acquis. If we accept this amendment, we will go into obvious violation. I do not think that we should go into this, because in some way we would give a very poor traveller to this law, which would probably have problems proving its validity in the European space as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u339	Thank you. Do you still want a representative of the government? Here you go, Mrs. Dr. McKinley. Anya Digger Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. I feel obliged to explain once again the content of the amendment to Article 35. This said that the condition of the protection of employment referred to in Article 42 of the General Block Exemption Regulation for the use of State aid should be reached within one year of the application of this Act, and by that time 40% of the employees were eligible for State aid. The Regulation has been in force since August 2008 and in Article 42, it is very clear that it is possible to use the derogations for investments, but only when the company has protected employment. Furthermore, Article 21 of the Regulation defines what is protected employment, which clearly states that employment is protected when more than 50% of the disabled are employed in an individual company. The fact is that we do not currently have a legalised state aid scheme for disabled companies. You asked about the sanctions. In the worst case, they may order the recovery of all State aid received by disabled companies from that time on. And by moving this forward for another year, we will in fact not be able to send the state aid scheme to Brussels for confirmation, because this scheme is not in accordance with the law, and we are deliberately violating it and continue to do so. And it's very important to point out that there's always talk about what it's like overnight. What's interesting is, you won't believe it, 25. 4. In 2007, representatives of disabled companies addressed a very bitter letter to Mrs Cotmanov, then Minister of Labour, that she intended to dismantle the entire system of disabled companies because they wanted or because the regulation was being prepared at the time and they had informed the Ministry about what the regulation would be and what it would bring. So, the fact is that we can move forward, but this dialogue has actually been very intense since 2007, and only this legislative act has been produced in dialogue with representatives of disabled companies and the general public, so it is now after three years before you to confirm it. I therefore ask once again that, although it may sound nice, we would like to make this happen, but the compromises that have been accepted have been such that we are still in line with this Regulation, so that we can declare a state aid scheme and enable disabled companies to do business in the future, so that they can employ the disabled, which is of course the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u341	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on Article 35 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mr. Rezman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Some suggest in every way possible that there might be something else to think about, others feel that this is impossible, and that we should have done what is now supposed to be done long ago. In doing so, we have also been given the impression that we want to follow the Balkan way so that we will only then comply with European regulation when we are in a situation where we are not in a situation where we are not in a situation where we are not in a situation where we are not. But if that were the case, then we've probably broken it by now. We're not running too fast with this law, we're late. The regulation has been in force for quite some time, and it is not possible to see any delay in those we are seeking to reconsider. We do not advocate that state aid should be spent as it has been so far. We respect that all restrictions and prohibitions must be taken into account, but that this time can be extended, as the law states, for a period of one year, which is probably not necessary, because, as I have mentioned, three months have passed and it may not be necessary for the full year after 15 days to continue implementation. We do not want to say anything against the European Union or against the billmakers. We simply point out that we also have a number of other regulations, directives and so on in which we are late, and we do not threaten to return all funds back because some of them have already been spent. And if we're late by now, we should be returning those funds by now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u343	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The decision on the amendment will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the re-establishment of agricultural communities and the return of their assets and rights under the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 32 Members and Members with the first-signed Marian Križman. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal to Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable present, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps two words about the history of agrarian communities, so that the debate will be much easier. The history of agrarian communities dates back to the Middle Ages when farmers agreed to jointly manage the agricultural and forestry land they farmed. In 1848 the Austrian National Assembly and Emperor Ferdinand I ended the feudal times and gave land to those working on it. How did they manage that? The right to use co-ownership or joint property was linked to the farm and was transferred only with the farm from generation to generation. However, the law, which was adopted in 1995, was entirely different. That's why we went to this correction, which I don't think is enough. Nevertheless, the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the re-establishment of agrarian communities with co-signatory have made a wish to amend at least some of the elements which would improve the functioning of these social entities. We have proposed a 75 per cent threshold for reaching consensus on the construction of forest fire infrastructure, the construction of agricultural and forest buildings, agrarian operations in accordance with the law governing agricultural land, the conclusion of leases or leases and the modification of the use of real estate. All the transactions listed exceed the so-called regular management, and the reduction in the percentage to reach consensus will at least ease the difficulties faced by agrarian communities in their operations and will remain in most of the problems until further notice. This will be best known when it comes to renting or renting contracts. We have proposed that each member of the Centre for Social Work may propose to appoint a guardian for that member of the agrarian community who has long been unattainable, including his unknown permanent residence, which would have his voting rights instead. I must say that the amendments to the law are substantively modest, that the amendments have further reduced them slightly, because the proposal must remain in line with existing legislation, and that the needs will be much greater if we want to regulate this area. A new agrarian community law is needed to regulate this area to suit most members of the agrarian community and not just some. Why the new agrarian community law? For today we are talking about the Law on the Re-establishment of Agricultural Communities, as we do today in the title. At the Ministry of Agriculture, we were promised to draft such a law very soon. No matter how uncertain the phrase "very soon" sounds, I hope they start preparing it in a short time and no matter who's in power. Slovenia is an exception to its neighbours in the field of agrarian regulation. Both in Italy and Austria and in Germany and even in Croatia, agrarian communities have the status of a legal person and as such operate normally. Their assets were not divided into shares or privatized. It is true that, apart from Croatia, it has not been maintained, but here is the key fact that it was not shared and inherited on return. Thus, there is no problem in obtaining consensus on business decisions that do not go beyond anything. In general, the state of Slovenia would enjoy as few such exceptionalities as possible. Once again, the proposal for a law, despite the modest scope of the amendments, is worth supporting, as any assistance to agrarian communities to facilitate their operation is welcome. I will, of course, support the proposal as a proposal, and I suggest that you, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u345	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Franco Bogovic for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u346	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! At its 35th meeting, on 5 October 2011, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the above-mentioned draft law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Marian Križman and not France Križman, as mentioned by mistake in the report of the Committee, which I apologize to Mr Križman. The Committee was informed of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to the draft law on Articles 1 and 2 and was duly taken into account by the adoption of the amendments by Mr Matjaž Hana. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government, which supports the bill and the opinion of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which also supports the proposal of the law. In accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the local communities. Some municipalities and three agrarian communities forwarded their opinions to the Committee. It is common to this opinion that they assess that the proposed amendment to the current law will not allow the objectives pursued by the drafters of the law to be achieved and that it would be necessary to amend Article 2 of the applicable law, which would grant the agricultural communities legal personality. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has the same opinion, which also proposes the establishment of an agrarian office or an agrarian commissioner at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food with a view to better solving the problems of the agrarian community. Unfortunately, these comments could be taken into account by the Committee because Article 2 of the current law is not the subject of this amendment and cannot therefore be supplemented or amended. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the bill. However, the belief is expressed that it represents only a compromise that will at least partially solve the problems of agrarian communities in managing their assets. The adoption of the novel will also make it possible to manage those lands which are now left to growth and non-working and for which sustainable management cannot be planned. However, in the opinion of the Committee, a new agrarian community law will need to be drawn up as soon as possible, comparable to the Austrian law, whereby agrarian communities are organised as independent legal persons of public law, acting in accordance with their statutes, by which agrarian communities would grant legal personality and provide for an extension of the time limit for the entry of agrarian communities into the register, which some agricultural communities have missed for various reasons. At the conclusion of the discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the proposed amendment of Mr Matjaž Hana to Article 1, which deletes the placement of the guardian of the succession, thus eliminating systemic non-compliance with the Succession Act and removing the possibility that the guardian of a special case in representation should also take account of the interests of the agrarian community, thereby managing systemic non-compliance with the Law on Marriage and Family Relations governing custody. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all other articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u347	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion, I give the word mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The purpose of the act on the re-establishment of agrarian communities and the return of their property and rights was, in particular, the return of property rights to members of agrarian communities and therefore does not have provisions on the management and disposal of land owned by or jointly owned by members of an agrarian community. Managing property in co-ownership or joint property is governed by the Real Law. It requires the consent of all co-owners for transactions that go beyond regular management, such as the availability of the whole thing, the determination of the use method and the determination of the usable land. The problems of members of agrarian communities are related to obtaining the consent of all co-owners to enter into legal transactions necessary for the management of property. In practice, therefore, in many cases the management of the assets of members of agrarian communities is either disabled or severely hampered. The Government therefore supports the intention of the proposers to address the problem. Let me remind you that we have already taken a step forward with the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act in terms of easing the conditions for agreement under the Real Law when it comes to dealing with agricultural land processing. Thus, the consent of the co-owners, whose ideal shares represent more than half of the land area if the agricultural land is in co-ownership, or more than half of the owners' consent, if the agricultural land is in common ownership, is sufficient to determine the user of the agricultural land and the method of use of the land. The Group of Members proposed to amend the Law on the Re-establishment of the Agrarian Community in such a way that more than three quarters of the members of the agrarian community could agree on their co-ownership shares for all transactions exceeding regular management. The Government estimates that the conclusion of certain legal transactions that go beyond regular management, such as land sales, the establishment of real service or building rights, the placing of the whole thing under mortgage and the like, without the consent of all members of the agrarian community, could constitute an unacceptable intervention in the constitutional protection of the property rights of those who would not agree with such transactions. Therefore, the Government proposes that transactions that exceed regular management, with a consensus of more than three-quarters of the members, be subject to a tax ruling. These transactions include, in particular, the construction of forest and fire infrastructure, the construction of agricultural and forest buildings, agrarian operations, the conclusion of a lease and the modification of the use of real estate. According to the Government, such transactions do not constitute an unacceptable interference with ownership rights because they can be justified by public interest. The government estimates that, secondly, it is not possible to ensure the labelling of agricultural land management. In view of the above, the Government agrees or supports the text of the amended law, which includes amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as it also takes into account the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u349	Thank you very much. I would really ask my colleagues and colleagues to step outside if they intend to have longer conversations. I've been warned from sentient benches that they can't hear you talking. Please. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, he shall have the word mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. Agrarian communities in Slovenia have roots in the time under Austro-Hungarian. They have been established as an effective form of merger of farmers, landowners. In Primorska, Fascism greatly entrenched them and abolished the new government in 1947. After the independence of Slovenia, they are reorganised from the previous association of decommissioned villages. The main reason for the adoption of the law is the problems in the area of co-ownership and common ownership of agrarian communities. This is the determination of how land is used, how land is leased, how construction permits are obtained, how services are served and agreed upon. Economic ownership in and outside the agricultural community is significantly hampered. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the amendment of the Act in question will not lead to significant movements or substantial solutions to existing problems, only to mitigate and blur the problem under consideration. Thus, if the proposed amendment to the law is adopted, decisions on transactions that go beyond the framework of regular management and are in the public interest, which ensures better management of agricultural land and forests, the members of the agrarian community shall, irrespective of the provisions of the Real Law, adopt, by agreement of three quarters of the members, according to their co-ownership shares. As we have already heard, it is business such as the construction of forest and fire infrastructure, the construction of agricultural and forest buildings, agrarian operations, the conclusion of rental and rental contracts and the change in the use of real estate. However, the latter does not solve the real problem caused by the structures of agrarian communities in the lives of some citizens and communities. You have forgotten about natural persons who cannot in any way acquire real service for the use of their property, such as access to property owned by an agrarian community or to obtain construction permits from municipalities for the construction of municipal infrastructure. You know, dispossessing is a very ungrateful thing to do. There are a lot of these cases in Primorsk. We'd call this a mission impossible. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that agrarian communities should be given legal personality so that three quarters of the consent of the members of the agrarian communities should also be sufficient for the establishment of a real service, since this does not mean that the property or property of the agrarian community is alienated. However, a great deal of salvation can mean for the opposite party. However, we agree with the fact that, except in the agrarian community's succession procedures, the consent of all owners is necessary, since without the consent of all members of the agrarian communities, this may constitute an unacceptable intervention in a constitutionally protected property right. In this case, too, the issue could be resolved by the introduction of a preliminary right of members of agrarian communities, with a preliminary offer of redemption. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the draft law with the hope that the latter will at least alleviate the problem situation a little. We are indignant, however, that the problem has not been fully addressed by the proposaler and has thus been able to offer a comprehensive solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u352	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The history of agrarian communities dates back to the Middle Ages when farmers agreed to jointly manage the agricultural and forestry land they farmed. In 1848 the Austrian National Assembly and Emperor Ferdinand I ended the feudal times and gave land to those working on it. In particular, some of the land remained undistributed in Gorenjska and Primorska. These were mountain pastures or village pastures for the purposes of grazing near the village and forests for joint use as well as the unprocessed world. Villagers could become owners of large pastures and forests, which [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u353	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u354	The villagers thus became owners of large pastures and forests, which they regularly sold and evicted because they needed to survive. The right to use co-ownership property or joint property was linked to the farm and was transferred only with the farm from generation to generation. Most of the total land has been transferred to private property, but some have been preserved until the 20th century, namely in two forms of ownership: ownership was registered in the land book to an agrarian community and its members, indicating the ownership of members by name, house number and similar as the special co-ownership of members of the agrarian community; ownership was registered in the agricultural book without stating the ownership of members' shares as a specific common property of members of the agrarian community and is further regulated in the rules of the agrarian community. The neighbourhoods were mostly transformed into co-ownership communities and from the 19th century onwards into agrarian communities, which were abolished by the Agrarian Communities Act of 1947 and the Agrarian Communities Assets Act of 1965. According to some estimates, the 1947 law in Slovenia is expected to abolish about a thousand agrarian communities. For several decades the assets were state or social, and in 1994 they could be re-established under the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities. Co-ownership and common property were therefore fragmented among individuals engaged in agriculture and operating on the land of the agrarian community and other non-agricultural activities. In particular, problems arise in obtaining co-owners' and joint owners' agreement on the management of agrarian property, as interests are between members of the agrarian community and co-owners or joint owners, and as a result, disputes and blockades arise in the management and, above all, in the acquisition of building rights and the rest. The essence of this law is to cut through the Gordy knots, which have many agrarian communities, the consequences of which are infested meadows, decaying barns, pastoral dwellings, and so on. Everyone will gain this law by allowing changes to move in management, which will also be reflected in the increase in the assets of agrarian communities. In no way does the law affect the property rights of members of agrarian communities and their inheritance. We will, of course, support the law at the Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u355	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u356	Thank you for your word and welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The new law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities, which is before us today, is the sixth that we are considering in the National Assembly. While we note that the novelty itself is short, we believe that it will allow members of the agrarian community a few more opportunities to manage businesses that go beyond what is called regular management. While we want more to be done in this area in the House of Members, the situation is relatively complex and cannot be easily cut off, as this should actually fall into the Law of Law and the Law of Succession, which are, by their very important laws and must be protected. On the other hand, these two laws are linked to the Law on the Re-establishment of Agricultural Communities and the result is counterproductive, we are facing a number of developmental problems, as many projects are being halted. Why is that? The property was returned by law in the form of co-proprietary property if the co-ownership shares, or in the form of joint property, were taken away during the maintenance, if the joint property was taken. The property of the former agrarian communities was returned in judicial proceedings in the Slovenian courts on the basis of the same legislation, but unfortunately it was not always the same as it was, and therefore there was an unanimity of case law. The property was returned to former members of the agrarian communities. If former members of the agrarian community are already deceased, it is necessary, under the rule of Article 8, paragraph 2, to carry out the succession procedure after the assets found. Co-ownership and common property were therefore fragmented among individuals engaged in agricultural activities and operating on the land of the agrarian community and other non-agricultural activities. As a result, the application of the Act on the Functioning of the Agrarian Community to the Succession Act resulted in the fact that the shares of the agrarian community’s property are inherited, even though they have never been or have not been told. However, compliance with the Real Law has resulted in the need to find the hundred percent consent of all members, including all those who have already inherited and need to be sought around the world, often without knowing whether they are still alive or who are even heirs. So from a developmental point of view, this is extremely difficult. The amendment of the law passed by this law will allow agrarian communities, if only luckily, but a few more opportunities will be made to implement all those procedures that are extremely necessary and necessary for them to be placed in space, especially infrastructure facilities which we need in Slovenia, especially when we are talking about the construction of railway links. Knowing that this law, however, will bring some improvements, we will support this law and we can also say that we are looking forward to a further serious debate, especially in the National Assembly, so that we can also identify ourselves around who may even be a member of the agrarian community, because it would be appropriate for members to be members who operate and live in the area of each agrarian community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u357	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u358	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the problem that is today being addressed by the proposal for a new law to regulate the restoration of the agrarian community and the return of their property and rights. The basic law was intended to restore property rights to members of the agrarian community, but it did not regulate land management and management. For this purpose, the Real Law Code applies, according to which each co-owner may have his or her own ideal share, and for all transactions exceeding the regular course of business, the consent of the owners or co-owners or group of owners is required. In practice, this means that in many cases a number of co-owners and joint owners of agrarian property management are virtually severely hampered or even disabled. Complementing the text of the law is intended to eliminate the total blocking of the ability to manage the common assets of members of the agrarian community. The law is intended to define more clearly a way of deciding on transactions that go beyond the framework of regular operations and to deal more effectively with cases where, due to the unknown name or the title of the heir to the deceased member of the agrarian community, it is not possible to manage the common property. However, it is an extremely interesting comment when we adopt the amendment of the law, which is being discussed today by the first president of the umbrella organisation, the Union of the Agrarian Community of Slovenia, Mr Rudi Šimac. He was responsible for the author of the proposal for a new Act establishing an agrarian community and returning their property and rights, which was adopted in 1993. A reduction of three quarters will, in his view, be more beneficial to a country that has major problems with its projects than to you. Of course, then we are talking about roads, power lines, pipelines and so on, of course when it comes to land ownership. We will not oppose this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u359	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u360	Hello, all of you! Members of the Slovenian People's Party are of the opinion that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights is properly governed by many of the unloving situations that occur in the management of agrarian communities. The return of agrarian assets began in 1994, property was returned in the form of co-ownership and common property, and property returned was fragmented among agricultural and non-agricultural individuals, making it very difficult to manage the assets of agrarian communities. Problems arise mainly in the area of possession of this property, since for each smallest intervention in this property, if this is either the determination of the method of use of the land or the acquisition of construction permits for the various facilities operating through the territory of the agrarian community, the consent of all co-owners is necessary. Such arrangements, however, are totally lame of the management of agrarian communities, as members of the agrarian community are not able to agree on repairs or fences, let alone consensus on the construction of public infrastructure through the territory of agrarian communities. Many owners and members of agrarian communities are not even present in our space. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the changes proposed by the proposed law are essential if we are to improve the conditions for agrarian community property management, which would actually justify the purpose of which they were set up. We estimate that the proposal for a law setting out the type of business for which more than three quarters of the members of agrarian communities and not all members are required is a good enough basis for moving forward and will improve the management of the assets of agrarian communities. Of course, this will not solve all the problems faced by agrarian communities and make them more operational, as it will be necessary to consider the preparation of a specific law that would choose legal personality for agrarian communities and establish a specific body for agrarian communities, as set out in Austrian legislation for example. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will therefore be supported by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u361	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u362	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! Members of our Group will support the proposed amendment, which, according to our assessment, represents a compromise that will at least partially solve the problems of agrarian communities in managing their assets. The adoption of the novel will, in our opinion, also allow for the management of those lands that are now left to growth and non-working and for which sustainable management cannot be planned. In the DeSUS Group, however, we believe that a new law on agrarian communities will need to be drawn up as soon as possible, comparable to the Austrian law, whereby agrarian communities are organised as independent legal persons of public law, acting in accordance with their statutes, by which agrarian communities would grant legal personality and provide for an extension of the deadline for the entry of agrarian communities into the register, which some agrarian communities have missed for various reasons. Well, we'll support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u363	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AGRICULTURAL BOARD OF SLOVENIA LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION: The draft law has been tabled by Mr Aloise Posedel and Mr Villa Trofenik. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Committee, Franc Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u364	Allow me to present this committee report in this package of agricultural topics. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law at its 35th meeting, on 5 October 2011. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in the context of general comments, points out that changes in the law affect the origins of the assembly organisation, since the obligation or voluntary membership constitutes one of the fundamental elements of the definition of the system of assembly. Such an important substantive change always requires a comprehensive assessment and consistent legislative implementation, which, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, would be easier and more appropriate instead of a novelty under the new law. In the following written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also made a number of specific comments. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government, which does not support the bill, and is not supported by the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It is also opposed by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. At a meeting of the Committee, the Chairman of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber pointed out that the amendment to the law was undermining the current regulation in the area of agriculture and rural development. The optional membership of the Chamber would also no longer be representative and independent and would lose the public legal status which, as such, can represent the interests of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. In view of the Government's negative opinion and a number of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, to which the proposers have not drafted the relevant amendments, I have asked the Committee to discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In the discussion on the proposed decision, most members expressed their support for this proposal, as other members of the Committee also considered the proposed solutions to be weak and incomplete and the possible adoption of the proposed amendment would undermine the current organisation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The members of the Committee also agreed with the opinion of the president of the Chamber in order to lose its representativeness with the optional membership of the Chamber and thereby to represent various interests in the field of agriculture and forestry. In particular, the Committee stressed that, before any decision on compulsory or optional membership, a broader public discussion of the members of the Chamber would be necessary to show whether or not the membership supports the existing organisation of the Chamber. If membership were to decide on optional membership, such a decision would require a comprehensive amendment to the applicable law. However, interference with the law in force requires serious consideration so that these changes do no more harm than good. However, the Committee pointed out to the Committee's rejection of the proposed amendment that some amendments to the assembly system were still necessary. Although an important step has been taken in the organisation of Slovenian agriculture and the Chamber has undoubtedly played an important role since its establishment in all these years, in the current situation, the number of farmers active in agriculture will decrease, which is reflected in the number of mandatory members, but a new consideration is needed on some issues, such as the level of the mandatory membership threshold, the tasks or mission of the Chamber, the electoral system and so on. With certain, newly thought-out solutions, the Chamber could be a more qualified representative of all the groups represented by the Chamber, following the example of the Austrian Agricultural Chamber, which has an organised and diversified assembly system. Following a discussion on the proposal for a decision, the Committee adopted the following decision by consensus, namely 8 for and by no one against: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u365	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Aloyz Posedel for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u366	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! On behalf of the proposers, at the outset, it might be possible to reflect only on the fact that one of the points in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure for Work in the next mandate was that it would be a good idea to consider whether it was necessary to consider points which did not even theoretically have the possibility of being accepted in order to be considered at all. Our proposal to propose amendments to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber Act was also tabled in April 2011. Today we are just before the dissolution of Parliament and we are discussing a point that has actually lost its meaning. At the time it was invested, however, it was invested in good faith that the assembly system should be regulated in Slovenia. We then tabled three amendments to the laws, namely the amendment of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and the Medical Chamber. These are three different laws and three different areas, but all three areas are such that they have certain problems and certain requirements for membership. At the beginning of this term, the Government or the ruling coalition has also written in a coalition contract to regulate the assembly system in Slovenia and to unify the system, because we know that we have some voluntary, some mandatory membership and that we have talked a lot about mandatory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber in the past term. At that time, some of us were also proposing a new law on the basis of which the mandatory membership threshold has doubled, which has brought significant benefits to those who have remained outside the mandatory membership, as well as greater operationality and representativeness of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. I would therefore like to start by saying, on behalf of the applicants, that we are aware of the importance of the establishment of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber in 1999, that the Chamber has made a huge contribution to the development of agriculture and that it is good and necessary to continue. However, the data and the response of membership indicate that certain changes are also needed here. Only data on only 13% of participation in the elections are likely to indicate some dissatisfaction or inappropriate way of carrying out the prescribed elections in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. Therefore, the group of applicants wanted to start a procedure, together with the management of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and all interested parties, to find the best solution that would correspond to the members and the Ministry of Agriculture, which also expressed its opinion that it would certainly be necessary to ensure that membership was compulsory, but in view of the complaints, some necessary amendments, including the amendment of this Act, were needed. I am sure that in the next term this debate on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber will continue, and we, as proponents, started at the beginning of this year in 2011, will only encourage and open this debate, and unfortunately today we are discussing in October, which is actually also inappropriate for further consideration at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u367	Thank you very much. In order to introduce my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the word mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u368	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly summarize the Government's opinion on the proposal to amend the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The Government notes from the existing legal system that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is a representative body representing various interests in agri-economic activities, that the Chamber is an interlocutor to the State in the preparation of expert opinions and in the procedures for the regulatory regulation of the agricultural and forestry public, and that compulsory membership is the basis for ensuring and monitoring common interests, which is the basis for the State's immediate and appropriate action. The government advocates a broader public debate at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia to show whether membership supports the existing organisation of the Chamber or not. If membership is to decide on compulsory membership, it is certainly necessary, on the basis of professional arguments, to redefine the criteria for the entry threshold and to determine the level of the assembly contribution. The Government also notes that the proposal of the Law has a significant impact on the organisation of the Chamber and the functioning of its members, and therefore considers that such a status change would require a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. In view of the above, the Government notes that the proposal cannot be supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u369	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u370	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have already opposed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia at the meeting of the home working body, as we estimate that the introduction of voluntary membership and without the regulation of other issues in the Chamber itself could lead to the fact that very many members would not want to become a member of the Chamber and would, of course, lose the farmers of the representative representative. In view of the fact that the farms in Slovenia are extremely fragmented, that the surface is dominated by those who have smaller surfaces, and that many times it is necessary to have professional support on the farm, which the Agricultural Forestry Chamber also offers through its advisory service. Of course, the debates we had in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber have been opened and always raised the question whether it is considered appropriate that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber also has the rights of establishment over agricultural and forestry institutions. These institutions are largely financed or financed by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby losing the autonomy of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which is often crucial when it is necessary to establish a firm position in favour of the members of the Chamber and, of course, to paralyse the Government either in the formulation of legislative proposals or other sub-legislative rules that are crucial for how agricultural policy is implemented in Slovenia. This law does not resolve these issues, so we will not support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u371	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u372	Thank you very much again for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not think that this solution, which is proposed today, is the most ingenious. We believe that it is a bit too narrow, that these changes are also inconceivable and that changes to the law should be followed by really comprehensive changes in the dialogue with the representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. The fact is that the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party has been known for some time. We have also been in favour of voluntary membership in the consideration of the amendment of the law proposed by Nova Slovenije, and so it will be in the future if we have the opportunity to interfere with any changes. That is why we have also written into the programme for the next elections, which will be very soon, very clearly and unequivocally, that we will abolish all mandatory membership in the Chambers, without exception. We believe that a member of the chamber should be the one who wants it. Five thousand signatures recently brought to the National Assembly by representatives of New Slovenia must mean a signal to us by Members indicating the will of those who have given these signatures. It is those farmers who are obviously not satisfied with this current organisation of the Chamber. The fact is that agriculture with Slovenia represents 10% of large farmers and 90% of small ones who obviously have no such interest in being active in this assembly system. Data of concern is also the election participation in the elections of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. In the last elections, participation was only 11%. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that by changing the statute of the Chamber, it would be forced to offer something more than has been the case so far. The experience of the Chamber of Commerce also shows that after a change of mandatory membership, the Chamber is making a substantial effort for its members. We believe that the fear of the House's termination in the event of voluntary membership is superfluous. On the contrary, changes in this direction will allow for reforming the organisation of the Chamber, simplifying the electoral procedures and thus saving certain funds, while at the same time offering members the benefit that only they will feel they need the Chamber. Of course, the change should follow the fact that the Chamber will continue to be able to carry out basic tasks such as representing the interests of farmers, agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations, professional assistance to them, addressing agriculture, forestry and fisheries. So what are we defending in the Slovenian Democratic Party? The transition to a private voluntary model of all chambers. As the novel that we are considering today does not follow all of our objectives, but it is going in the right direction, we will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u373	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u374	Before us is another novel of the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the main purpose of which is the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber and the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group remains the same as expressed in the consideration of similar law in June. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber is clearly a representative body capable of representing various interests in agricultural and forestry activities and an extremely important interlocutor with the State or with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the preparation of expert opinions and in the procedures for regulatory regulation of agricultural and forestry activities in our country. As everyone here knows, there has been a serious debate in our party about the situation and future of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and its mandatory membership as one of the main points. An internal survey was also carried out during the membership of the Slovenian People's Party and on the basis of these results a number of discussions were held at all the major bodies of the Slovenian People's Party. I can say that the decisive opinion that outlined our direction was the opinion of the original father of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, Dr. Franc Zagozhn, whose position is clear and unequivocal. It estimates that the immediate complete abolition of compulsory membership would undoubtedly also mean the end of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, as we know it. As such, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, according to Dr. Franca, is the last institution in this country to understand and speak a clear language to the farmer. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that this would certainly happen, even if the compulsory membership in the Chamber were indeed abolished. Without compulsory membership, the number of members would be significantly reduced and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber would lose its representativeness or important role in linking fragmented Slovenian agriculture. At the same time, the Chamber would certainly lose the powers it has from the State and also the property it has in the management and service of agriculture. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we point out that the proposers of the proposal are not sufficiently aware of how important the Agricultural Forestry Chamber is to farmers by offering its services, its professional services and how important it is to be an interlocutor in the preparation of agricultural legislation. Of course, in the People’s Party, we do not claim that everything is in the best order and that the current arrangement is the best. We are leaning towards a proposal for amendments that would reduce the number of compulsory membership pledges in order to pay membership fees to those who are recipients of the measures of the common agricultural policy, but would also be given to larger forest owners or larger forest owners. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also agree at this point with the Government's opinion that the Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber has a significant impact on the organisation of the Chamber and the functioning of its members. For this reason, such a status change would require a comprehensive amendment to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber Act, but the purpose of the proposer of the consideration of the novel was not to seek so much a solution, but to make a move that was in some way also desirable, and certainly would be appropriate for a variety of farmers. At the same time, we do not think that farmers would not pay, but they would also remain completely alone, poorly organised and against the state apparatus, which would push a lot of people completely to the brink. It is important to note that the chamber's contribution is not the only one, but at least not the most important source of resources available to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. The contribution represents less than a tenth of the resources available to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and is intended primarily for the operation of the assembly system. The remaining funds are linked to the public powers granted to the Chamber under the law, as well as to the assets with which the Agricultural Forestry Chamber has them. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also advocate simplifying the elections to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber in order to make them more visited and more accessible to beneficiaries. We are also aware in the Slovenian People's Party that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber also needs a certain reorganisation and certain modifications. However, there is no point in blinding ourselves to the inevitable fact that the abolition of the mandatory membership of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber would mean the end of the Chamber as a representative independent interlocutor, as it would lose the public legal status which, as such, represents the interests of agriculture, forestry and fisheries.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u375	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Franz Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u376	Thank you so much for saying that. The theme of the reorganisation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber seems to be very interesting. There are both parliamentary groups and extraparliamentary groups. Even those who understand and do not understand agriculture as specific economic activities. Members of our parliamentary group will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. The proposer proposes the abolition of compulsory and voluntary membership and changes in the area of elections to the Parliamentary bodies. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the solutions proposed are flawed and incomplete. However, the possible adoption of the proposed novel would undermine the current organisation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. With optional membership, the Chamber would also lose its representation and thus the possibility of representing different interests in agriculture and forestry. Members of our parliamentary group are of the opinion that before any decision on compulsory or optional membership, a broader public debate of the members of the Chamber should be held to show whether or not the membership supports the existing organisation of the Chamber. In our view, if membership were to decide on optional membership, the law in force should be amended in its entirety. However, interference with the law in force requires serious consideration so that changes do no more harm than benefits. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that some changes in the assembly system will still be necessary, even though the number of farmers active in agriculture has decreased, which is consequently reflected in the number of mandatory members. We therefore believe that some issues, such as the height of the mandatory membership threshold, the tasks or mission of the chamber, the electoral system and the like, need to be considered. As has already been said, the Members of the DeSUS Group will support the decision of the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u377	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u378	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! Although the amendment of the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia was rejected by the Home Committee, in the Slovenian National Party we believe that changes to the assembly system are urgently needed, not only specifically in the proposed novel, but also in the organisation of other similar chambers. In doing so, we do not want to end or eliminate the assembly system, but it is imperative that certain issues be checked, in the first place the issue of compulsory or optional membership and the related threshold for possible mandatory membership. We are aware that any such intervention in the existing assembly system is a difficult matter and that the change must be prudent and appropriate in order not to have a parallel adverse impact on the regulation of the agricultural sector and the resulting promotion of rural development. To some extent we also understand the rejection opinion of the Government and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which certainly plays an important representative role for all actors involved or associated with agricultural and forestry activities. However, we do not agree with the hypothesis that the abolition of compulsory membership would pose a serious risk of a significant reduction in membership and thus the risk of losing its representative role or even existence. Let me just remind you of all the fears and doubts about the abolition of compulsory membership of companies with limited liability. Even then, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce were afraid that the abolition of compulsory membership would endanger the entire organizational assembly system in order to break down the entire system of assembly arrangements and so on. But we all know that none of this has happened and that the Economic Chamber continues to function in accordance with its purpose and principles. What, then, is the fear of change, such as a trade hall or an agricultural chamber? While optimistic is the Government's statement that it will fully examine the rules of the assembly system and will seek a systematic and comprehensive solution. This was a statement before the collapse of this government, and we now expect the position of any new government that will sooner or later have to address this unfinished and still ongoing issue of the sense of compulsory membership, particularly for small farmers or the necessity of paying a contribution to membership. We are convinced that, even with today's rejection of the proposal to be suitable for further consideration, this story has not been concluded, and we agree that, in the next mandate, it will approach the fundamental and public consideration of this issue and finally find an appropriate solution. In the Slovenian National Party, we have views on this topic or on this issue, and we will therefore vote accordingly in our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u379	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the agreement to have a vote at 10:30 on decisions that are necessary in order to be able to carry out a third hearing later, I propose that today we hold a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Competition – a total time is set at 45 minutes – and that without a break, as soon as this point is done, we should move to a vote on three laws, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, the Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Origin and the Proposal for an Law on Audiovisual Media Services. Then it'll probably be 11:00 and we'll finish today's work, unless there's a lot of time left, which I doubt, and then we'll continue tomorrow. Can we go in this order? We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of restriction of competition after a reduced procedure. He was presented to the National Assembly by the Government. For the opening presentation, I give the word mags. Janku Burgaru, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Restriction on Competition, which regulates more precisely and transparently the procedures and deadlines for the commencement of the work of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which also sets out the tasks of the Director of the Agency's duties, which are carried out at the same time by the Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. The main reasons for the change are that these amendments introduce corrections that would not create a void that could otherwise have occurred if the amendments to the law had not been adopted and the Public Agency for the Prevention of Competition would not have worked in Slovenia. The draft law in the first part provides that the tasks of the Director of the Agency until the appointment of the Director shall be carried out by the Director of the Office, thereby ensuring the simultaneous management of the Office and the performance of the tasks of the Director of the Agency. the Director of the Agency. The Director of the Office shall also, pending the appointment of the Director of the Agency, present and represent the Agency with all the powers and prepare all the acts necessary for the functioning of the Agency. Article 2 shall specify the start of the operation of the Agency in the event that the Agency would not be entered in the register by 1. 1. However, Article 3 provides that all the agencies of the Agency will also have to be set up before the Agency enters into the register of justice or its commencement. This is the board of directors and the board of directors. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u381	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 39th session, 28th session. 9. Considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Competition Restrictions. The Chair's College is at its 113th session. 9. He decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. Representatives of the Ministry of the Economy and the Legal and Legislative Service took part in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the introductory explanation of the articles, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy explained that the main objective of the proposal is to more precisely and transparently regulate the procedures and deadlines for the entry into force of the Public Competition Agency. In the process of setting up the Agency, the Ministry of the Economy has found that the current deadlines and methods and procedures do not allow for a definite transition from one status form to another. In the event of an uninterrupted transition from the office to the public agency, circumstances could arise so that the Republic of Slovenia does not operate or exists a body competent to prevent the restriction of competition. The draft law therefore provides that, in the case of up to 1. 1. 2012 would not meet all the necessary conditions for the start of the operation of the public agency, the Agency shall enter into the register of the court only when all the bodies of the Agency have been established and the Agency’s start of operation is linked to the entry into the register of the court. The bill also provides that the tasks v.d. The Director of the Office for Competition Protection shall, pending the appointment of the Director, ensure the simultaneous management of the Office and the performance of the tasks of v.d. the Director of the Agency. The discussion expressed the view that the proposed amendments, which the Government, while seeking to increase the efficiency and independence of the Office, lead to a threat to its competent work. In this regard, a dilemma was also expressed as to the relevance of the adoption of the proposed law. With regard to the change in the status form, it was expressed that this does not affect the financial dependence of the Office or the Agency, since the Government or Parliament shall determine the budget for both the Office and the Agency. With regard to Article 1 of the bill, the question was raised as to whether the Government classified the appointment of the perpetrator of the duties as its current business, highlighting the possibility that the Agency would be without the Director or the Acting Director. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law at second reading, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u383	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Willi Rezman will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u384	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. A brief presentation of the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members concerning the Law on the Prevention of Restriction on Competition and the proposed amendments and additions. We consider that these are in fact routine in nature, in order to avoid any discomfort that might arise if the agency were not in time to start operating. The purpose of the basic law was to enable or provide a legal basis for the work of the Agency as a competition guardian, as one of the key regulators with some other regulators that we have, which will protect the competitiveness market, competitiveness in the domestic market. We estimate that this bill needs to be supported so that there is no real embarrassment, also due to the need to protect competition effectively, because competition needs to be protected in such a way that the regulator is truly independent and independent, and this is also the ambition of the basic law. The government wanted to achieve this independence, expertise, efficiency and autonomy by proposing, which was later adopted, a change in the status of the office in the composition of the Ministry to a separate agency. We have already supported this ambition, and we have already raised some concerns about the Agency. But this is just a matter of repeating them briefly, because the ambition to ensure the independence and independence of this agency is somehow limited in its design. In this way, the basic law is contrary to this ambition. I'm just going to count a few cases, and then let's finish this presentation. The director of the agency is appointed by the government, so it's the government who gives the thirst to the director. The Council of the Agency is appointed by the Government, so it is again the one who gives the thirst to the Council of the Agency. Of the five members of the four members, the Commission proposes to the Government, again the Government is the one that is the key. The work programme can only be adopted with the consent of the Government, the financial plan and the Agency's final accounts are confirmed by the Government. And so one of the independent sources of revenue is confirmed by the Government. So much for the purpose of the law and the achievement of this purpose, which is therefore the independence and independence of the Agency, we must say that they are very stingy and that the Government only appears in a different form through different bodies and through the various programmes and financial plans of this agency. There is not much left of independence and independence from the Government, but it is true that such an authority is needed because of the importance of competition and the need for this competition to be protected as far as possible. We will, of course, support the law, because if the law were not adopted, it might happen that we would not have a director, not an authority, not a material, financial and human condition for the start of the Agency's work in a timely manner, and the office would no longer be.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u385	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! In this mandate, the National Assembly has already adopted several amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act and it seems that each novelty raises a number of new issues that need to be re-implemented. This time, too, the basis for the adoption of the amendment in question is conditional on the establishment of clearer procedures and deadlines for the entry into operation of the public competition agency of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that we do not agree with this way of adopting legislation, and we are not satisfied with it, but we will nevertheless support the law in the Group of Social Democrats in order to ensure consistent protection of competition in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! This is one of those novels that should not be visited because it saves nothing, but gives comfort to government services, ministries, many officials who are obviously too many at individual ministries because they have been unable to make status changes from office to agency for more than half a year. Because that's what this is about. Novela was adopted in April this year and the Government now notes that the transition from office to agency could be compromised. As a result, provisions on the appointment of a director are being amended which do not need to be amended, since the existing law states that v.d. The Director shall be appointed by the Government and the provisions concerning the start-up of the Agency already fixed on 1 January 2012 shall be amended. In short, time is more than enough for all the necessary procedures to be carried out as provided for in the current legislation and to enable the regulator to be the right guardian of competition to act as sovereign and operationally as possible. However, if the interest is that it does not work, and that is why we are witnessing some of the amendments to the laws that limit its potential for sovereign action, because there are probably some procedures that might be disputed, then of course this is another issue and measures on some kind of scandal. In short, there is no need to adopt such types of laws, such novelties. A filter should be set up in the legislative mechanism so that such laws do not even experience legislative procedures, so as not to burden this Parliament, many people, many administrations, many bureaucracys that work in vain. We will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group for these reasons because it is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is expected to present the position of the DeSUS Group. [[He's not here.]] Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u390	Good evening. It's late. It happens. It's true what my predecessor said. For it is not fair to adopt one marriage in April and then the month of August, when the Government is still full of work, to find that it is either forgotten whether it is incompetent or wrong to count days and months, and that what is adopted by one law cannot suddenly be by the time it should be. I don't think it's fair that if someone doesn't know something, forget it, or whatever, we save by writing a new law. [[advertising from the hall]] If I have already received a call, to punish those who have since April 2000 If the law has been passed, we know who is obliged to enforce the law. [[…]] I think we know who that is. The executive branch of government has not done so, and now it has invented one law just to cover its errors. That's ugly, that's how it is. And here, I'm sorry, we're colleagues and colleagues, we're a little angry. Now we're going to make mistakes, flaws and forgetfulness changes in laws. There shouldn't even be such a law. Here we are in a hurry to call V.D. Director, when the Legal and Legislative Service made it clear that we do not need to appoint him. When we all knew that 1. 1. 2012 Office ceases to operate. And now it is before us to adopt this law. If you don't, you'll have what? Texas, disgruntled, we will have an emergency situation, we will immediately after the elections, everyone will take over everything, there will be no notification of concentrations, no challenge of unfair competitions, monopolies, illegal acquisitions, in short, the Wild West, again a wonderful space for tycoons. And if we say to me now: You know what, and we will not accept such laws that the government will by law correct its mistakes and its wrongs, and you will say: Yes, because you will be guilty of so-called Texas, so that there will be no restriction of competition, that everything will be savage. I mean, it's great, things like that to solve. Do as I say if you're not to blame, even if I say wrong. The position of the Slovenian National Party was somehow so that we must act in such a way as to prevent all that should not have happened, but it did, and that this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act should be adopted. But the final decision was: whatever anyone wants. I won't personally support him. I will not support ignorance, or incompetence, or laziness, or forgetfulness, or whatever the government has, so that I will now pass laws that will be written by anyone who has five minutes of time. In order to correct the government's mistakes, I stress once again. Anyone who does is making mistakes, but admit them. And let him see to it that the executive branch of power is to do what it has proposed and what the National Assembly has accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u392	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the process of setting up the Agency, the Ministry of the Economy has found that the deadlines, modalities and procedures for setting up the Agency do not allow a certain transition from one status form to another. In the event of an uninterrupted transition from the office to the public agency, circumstances could arise that the Republic of Slovenia would not operate and exist a competition prevention and restriction body, thereby allowing behaviour that would harm the economy of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we were informed by the Ministry of the Economy's assessment that, due to the short time limits necessary to carry out the procedures necessary for the appointment and constitution of all the competition authorities, there is a real possibility that by 1 January 2012 it would not be possible to obtain the Agency's entry into the register, which would prevent the Agency from obtaining legal personality or, consequently, would not be able to start work. However, the Ministry of the Economy should carry out a more thorough analysis of the processes and tasks needed to establish the Agency at the stage of the drafting of the law. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed amendment establishing a mechanism which will allow that if not all the conditions for the start of the work of the Agency are met by 1 January 2012, this period shall be extended to a point until all the bodies of the Agency are constituted and the Agency subsequently entered into the Register of Justice and the beginning of the work of the Agency shall be bound to the Registry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u393	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Since we have some time to half eleven left, I suggest that we not start the next point, which we should end only by presenting the proposalr, but that we use this time for a shorter rest and start voting on those three laws at exactly half past eleven. We have to use time to start by half eleven because someone can count on a certain hour, that is, half eleven, and it will be affected if one minute before the start of the session. So, at 10:30 a.m., we continue to vote on the three laws I spoke about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u394	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check their voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2011. We turn first to the decision on the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted, 39 votes against 38. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There were 78 votes in favour and 78 votes in favour, 38 against 38. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 38. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 52. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment has not been accepted. One amendment has been adopted to Article 4, so I ask the proposer whether he would like to propose to the assembly that we continue this meeting? The proposer is Mr Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u395	I suggest we move on to the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u396	Mr Franco Juri, on behalf of the proposer, proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure at this meeting, carry out a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law tomorrow, 19 October 2011, after the vote has been completed. The services of the assembly will prepare a review that is not necessary because it is only one amendment. So I interrupt this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 October 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 64 of the SDS Group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm opening the application. I ask anyone who wishes to sign up for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Branko Grims has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u397	In the parliamentary group, we will support our amendment because, in the previous mandate, the Penal Code adopted by the Government adequately regulates criminal policy when it comes to material exploitation by abuse of copyright, which is now a relatively severe punishment for the current Penal Code. The current power, or now the power has fallen, has come with an absurd proposal that only for a few copied files that could be found on the computer could be closed to young people or young people in their hearts for three years, against which we have been severely exposed by the SDS Group for more than half a year, as it means that the actual enforcement of the police state, rather than the rule of law, has been abusing the rule of law to the ultims wary that the last criminal policy is the turn of the police. When the Ministry also lacked any arguments and agreed that the article was at least welcome, there was an interesting media spin, that several days after the Ministry had already announced the amendment of the article, the consumer union requested the same argument that we had been repeating in the SDS for months to change this article, and all the media that had previously had this taboo theme and did not report it suddenly reported that this article was changing on a proposal from the consumer union. And then the poor Slovenians still imagine that they are objectively informed and that they know who is who in politics and what they really stand for. Love Slovenia! The reason why this article should be deleted is that the proposed so-called compromise text also provides a fairly broad scope of interpretation, which is by no means admissible in the Penal Code. This is a very sensitive area, where the way of life of young people increasingly connected via the Internet is used for day-to-day communication, for a source of information and for every intervention in this area should be carefully weighed first and also followed by global trends. World trends, however, are such as are already enshrined in the current Penal Code, which thus allows those who, with the copyright of others, are effectively taking material advantage of their sale. For this reason, we propose that this article should be deleted because it is impeccable because it is too sharp, because it is still unclear and because it allows one of the young people who will simply want to obtain information or who will be carried out by indiscretion on the Internet to pay it with a prison sentence. Such a prison is unjustifiable, especially if we know that we live in a country where, for 100 million actual injuries, none of the tycoons have ever been legally convicted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u398	Thank you very much. The vote on behalf of the Zares Group will be explained by Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u399	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the debate, I announced that we would support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I later cleared up certain things, examined them, checked them, and, of course, does not claim that the possible prosecution of people who take the author text from the internet for their use is not for profit or profit. I therefore predict that we will still vote against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their personal name? Personal or parliamentary group? Anybody else want some? I'm giving time to apply for explanations of vote on my personal behalf. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u401	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment because it is for the benefit of the young generation, which the current Government, the Ministry, has wanted to incriminate and prosecute in order to seek knowledge from online content. I am pleased that in our party, specifically colleague Grims, the first to bring a pirate party to Slovenia to win Berlin for the same content. This is a new movement on a global scale, and we have immediately listened to the needs of young people and have thus achieved this with decisive action, even though others wanted to adopt this initiative, but this initiative was originally created in our party. We are aware of the needs of young people who are still being prosecuted by the current authorities because they want cultural, scientific, research content to be taken from the Internet. We are pleased that, under pressure from the public and at the initiative of our party, this intention of the current government will not be realized because you are afraid of the public, in fact young people have resisted these intentions to be persecuted in their own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u402	Thank you very much. The vote on behalf of Mr Franco Juri will be explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u403	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We also had serious concerns about the article in the Parliamentary Group before we could reshape it with the Ministry. And now, in the new version, only those who misuse data uploaded from the Internet for commercial purposes are actually being punished, not those who use them for their own purposes. I think that the solution is good and that is why I will not support this amendment, because while we are defending the rights of internet users and it is right to protect them from disproportionate punishment, it is still necessary to defend and protect copyright. And I think that the compromise solution that has been put forward is optimal in this respect and there is no point in supporting such an amendment. So I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u404	Thank you very much. The vote will explain Mr Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u405	Dearly beloved, many still remember the times when many things were banned, including the import of computers, not to mention some content that is now completely free on the market and accessible to everyone. And it is not true that anyone would have any concern that freedom of access is limited. On the contrary. Perhaps some wanted to be even more censored or closed access to some information, content that is useful and useful for every day to all who want to get it, who want to visit it. There was no talk on the committee about this from any of the people here today who are talking about how long ago they've been talking about these things. We have found a solution that, in my opinion, guarantees what is most important – the protection of copyright. We have some fairly well-known cases of conflicts, which also occur elsewhere, I think we discussed in this Chamber yesterday at another point when it came to a report on security and intelligence surveillance, the issue of Saz and similar things. With all due respect for and absolute protection of copyright, those who have co-formed and discussed this amendment on the Committee, we believe that any access to data and information that is useful for personal gain, growth, expansion of their horizons and does not deal with prohibited trade and that it does not serve to support. Therefore, of course, this amendment in the way it is presented here, I absolutely cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u406	Thank you very much. I see an interest in explaining the voice. I'm giving you time to report. Anyone else who's gonna explain their vote should sign up. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u407	First of all, we'll all use the same term. "Classical piracy" is when you reproduce something for the purpose of selling, that is, personal material exploitation. And, of course, none of us do. On the contrary, this is punishable by the Penal Code, and this is a harsh one for which we all, including ourselves, voted in the previous term. What is the problem of the solutions offered by you or now by the government coalition is that you are based on the principle of the police state. That you're still following the principle that you want to lock people up because they're copying something. And that's too much for the reasons I mentioned earlier. What is the essence of the story and what should be the message in this matter is really the power in one sentence. For what? Because today the Internet is a way of life for young people and, above all, a source of information, a source of knowledge. And so this is also a developmental issue. Therefore, this message is in one sentence: Slovenia needs neither government nor political parties that advocate the closure of young people for copying files from the Internet, but needs customers and the Government to advocate the opening of new, quality jobs and thus enable young people to have a good perspective and Slovenia to develop.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u408	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment, which is deleted. Today, when we listened to and discussed the report of the Ombudsman, she spoke or wrote about poverty among young people in one part of the chapter on the poor. Young people, however, should not be a vulnerable population. Young people should actually be the engine of society. Skilled young people after schooling, education and so on are those vulnerable populations like some other social groups in the group. And now by watching over them with another kind of repression if they work, search, educate, and thus try to do something. Far from being pirated in this case, but it's easy to work, and that's how they'd try to disable it. I'm afraid we don't find those big pigs. Nothing happens there. Now the kids would be locked up if this article stayed in. This is something we disagree with in the Slovenian People's Party and we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u410	Can we vote? We vote on the amendment to Article 64. 79 Members and Members voted 33, 41 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 82. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Grimes? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? I don't see a wish yet. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u411	Your Honor! As in the preceding article the text was inappropriate and stretching, and you know that the determination of the legal norm is one of the constitutional conditions for the admissibility of the adoption of a law, this is all the more obvious when it comes to this amendment. In this case, the ruling coalition has proposed that up to one year in prison be punished by anyone who unjustifiably enters a network. Of course, it's a very stretching concept. Those who are familiar with modern technology must count on the devices themselves to be set up in such a way as to automatically connect to such entrances. And in the event that an unprotected network enters an unwarranted entry, two are essentially responsible — those who may not have taken care of the right settings on their device, but at least that is the fault of those who failed to provide adequate protection of their network. And in such a case, to propose a prison sentence is the draconian punishment of a police state that belongs in a completely different place and time. The amendment, which has slightly changed the original text on the Committee, does not solve this, therefore, given all the possibilities that exist today, in view of the different technologies, given that many of the adjustments already made to the factory are made, it is said that companies themselves are made to go essentially in a direction that is potentially illegal for us. For this reason, it would be necessary to adopt this amendment and this article, in the interests of clarity, to delete completely from the text of the law for impreciseness. If this article remains, it will be clear, of course, that the purpose of this law is not to punish those who do something consciously to take advantage of the unlawfully, but to establish a police state of the socialist type in which we are all potentially contrary to the law. And then it divides into those, because you know, if someone is our "swook" like they said 30 years ago in Gorenjska, it's okay and nothing will happen to him, but if someone is on the side, let's say, some democratic party, then they'll grab it. But this modern, democratic state has nothing in common anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u412	Thank you very much. We move to the vote on the amendment to Article 82. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 100. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Jerovšek? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Jerovšek, you have an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u413	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, of course, we propose a criminal attack on the financial stability and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia by damaging public funds. This is the only real answer to what happened in our financial and banking system, where according to a well-known sociologist, Dr. Urban Vehovar, a crime occurred. With this, Slovenia was placed in a subordinate position and in an extremely critical state. If the current authorities do not want to prosecute such crimes in advance, then they want what Dr. Belet, an exceptional criminal expert, believes instead of the current practice of harming public funds, to essentially include in the Penal Code an amnesty for financial fraud and financial crime, because in its view it has not been a crime so far and will even have to abandon all prosecutions that have been initiated so far. I can also add an additional argument to what we propose. Two days ago, the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, requested or proposed an order requiring national states to punish these cases in the financial system. For this violence against public funds financiers, the European Commission will demand punishment and how our minister will stand before Barroso when he has the information that they have rejected such punishment at home, such a criminal policy to protect Slovenian tycoons, Slovenian fraudsters, those who have attacked the financial system and thereby threatened the independence and sovereignty of the Slovenian state. Therefore, I hope that we will reach consensus that those of you who are in favour of preserving the sovereignty of the Slovenian State and to prevent further incursions into the financial system that have taken place in our banking and financial system will vote in favour of such an offence as will be used at a symbolic level and will effectively prevent such acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u414	We move to a vote on the amendment to Article 100. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Grimes, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their vote? No.) Here you go, mag. Grimes, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u415	Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we will oppose the adoption of this law because of the warnings given by Professor Dr. Bele, who warns that the law is written from the wrong sources, that it stems from the fetishisation of penal policy, from the fetishization of punishment as such, and it belongs to another place and time. It is part of a pre-modern space that has nothing in common with the modern democratic state of the European Union. In the hearing, you rejected virtually all the amendments tabled by the SDS Group, which we wanted to correct at least the worst mistakes of this law, but you did exactly as you did at the beginning of your term of office. You did not come from arguments, but from an argument of power, you came from political prestige, which was the red thread of your mandate and which is obviously something that only marks your policy as recognizable. All of these are reasons for rejecting a law that will not have the effects that it should have, because it is fundamentally contrary to one of the legal bases, the fundamental legal principles that punishing the victims is the last choice. Instead of many of the solutions in this law, of course, they could have arranged the law differently, arranged it with other laws, arranged prevention, or found solutions that would have been specific, since the law is full of inconsistent formulations that allow those who make them to leave relatively large room for their free decision. However, when it comes to human rights and human punishment, in no way can it be permissible and it is obviously unconstitutional in Slovenia. A law such as this will not have a positive effect in the prosecution of crimes. In many areas, it will cause additional confusion, further delay of proceedings, additional appeals to the Constitutional Court and thus an additional minus in the already poorly functioning Slovenian judicial system. Certainly, as Professor Bele warns, the law is a reflection of the psychology of the police state of those who have proposed it and who are defending it, as well as a reflection of the modern understanding of criminal law, which is only narrowly targeted, concretely and by means of measures, when this is really necessary in terms of fundamental social values and in terms of the protection of these values. And let me finish. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u416	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. I saw interest in explaining the voice in a personal name. Please, anyone who wishes to explain a voice in their personal name, please sign in. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u417	Thank you very much. The law is certainly worthy of support, if not for another reason, due, of course, to the messages given by some colleagues in the context of the explanations of the amendments. In one breath, of course, they advocated impunity, while in another breath they advocated additional punishment and repression. What analysts would call this bad over spin, but I am glad that in the Report of the Ombudsman, which we have all received with great majority of our approval today, we have clearly and loudly understood that the judicial backlog, the situation in the field of justice is significantly improving and this is of course a good message. If, of course, some who have black glasses every day see it only through negativity, it is their decision and their choice. I'll support this kind of marriage myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u418	Thank you very much. The voice will be explained by Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u419	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Criminal law is a law that no one really knows everything about and no one knows enough. That's why I'm always surprised those in this national council who, without even knowing the law, know everything about criminal law. And I have a bad feeling about this and I cannot participate in these debates, because I am convinced that these are such difficult things that we, as Members, are actually representatives of people who do not really know anything about this or at least not enough, we do not have the right to debate in this way in order to take such a huge stand for what is right and what is wrong. And that's all I want to say. I know that the Penal Code, which came into force on 1 November – very typical – 2009 is adopted in some unusual way, in the absence of a profession, and that it is certainly a fact that it contains a lot of mistakes and some inadequacies that need to be corrected in some way. I believed, and I also believe today in the Ministry of Justice, that it was necessary in these parts, as we have tried to correct, and that I will therefore vote in favour of correcting this work. I don't want anyone to think they know all about it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u420	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u421	Professor Dr. Bele is a top criminal law expert, and those who refer to him could at least listen to him, because the warnings I gave earlier were his warnings. That this is a misinterpretation of criminal law, of the wrong starting points, of the law that belongs to the police state in some other place and time, and of the modern democratic state has nothing to do with it. I will personally vote against this law because of his warnings and because of the principle that I spoke about earlier, because I believe that only the knowledge of Slovenia can draw into a new development cycle, that only knowledge is what no one can take away from us and can build Slovenian development and thus also the social state of the next generation, and today the knowledge of young people is acquired online. Slovenia needs neither the government nor the political parties that propose and advocate the detention of young people for copying from the Internet, but needs a government and political party in power that will be able to open new jobs for young people, thereby making it possible for Slovenia to develop a new perspective in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u422	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u423	Thank you for your word. We will support this law. But it bothers me to underestimate the predecessor. It's not a red thread, it's an orange thread, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u424	Thank you very much. We are voting on a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Penal Code. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code has been adopted in the text under consideration. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Penal Code. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft Law on Audiovisual Media Services in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 October 2011. In doing so, I inform you that today you have received the withdrawal of the SDS Group's amendment to Article 32. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 36. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 36 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group – Slovenian People's Party to Article 43. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 43 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 44. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 44 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 45. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted three amendments to the law. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? Yeah. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government proposes that, in accordance with the options given by the Rules of Procedure in its 38. Article, you also have a third hearing at this meeting, and in the next few years, you keep those millions that would otherwise fall due to the non-implementation of the directive governing this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u426	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, conduct a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 21. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 21.]] Less than a third of all voters voted against. I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. The third reading of the bill will be done tomorrow. With regard to the third reading of this proposal of the law and the draft law on the seizure of illegally acquired property, I would remind you that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading should not normally be carried out earlier than 24 hours. This provision shall be assisted by groups wishing to prepare amendments. It's 11:17 today. If we want to wait 24 hours, we have to wait until tomorrow. However, if you agree, I would recommend that the parliamentary groups that will possibly prepare the amendments prepare these amendments as soon as possible in order to be able to carry out a third examination of these two laws in the course of tomorrow morning. As far as we can count, we'll probably be working by five or six tomorrow. But I hope it doesn't take much longer. Can you accept this suggestion? Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item and today's meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 8:00. Thank you very much.
