ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Janja Klasinc, Renata Brunskole from 3 p.m. Majda Spending from 15:00 on, Miran Potrč, Ljubo Germič, Aloise Posedel, Zvonko Lah, only Bevk from 15:00 on and Matjaž Zanoškar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law on the implementation of general reference activities, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 13 Members and Members of Parliament are first-signed mags. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members. That's a good-bye to everyone. In the introductory five minutes available, I would like to inform the honourable assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament of the following. During our three-year ministry, we have sworn to work in the public interest, together with our colleagues and the interested public, to draw up a law that is now on the table. In the last week and the day before, there are signs in the public that this is a neo-liberal approach, that it is an opportunity to privatise, takunization, commercialisation of the public sector and therefore from this place to prepare this law, according to the way in which we have prepared, in view of the objectives that we have been pursuing, I pledge once again before this assembly that this law is far away, given the solutions it contains, from any privatisation of public goods which our country sets out in the Constitution in the way of a social state where these goods are to be accessible to our people under the same conditions, without discrimination, in view of the social situation. That tycunization in this law, in accordance with this law, is absolutely impossible. That the commercialisation that we are witnessing today, precisely because of a thorough analysis of the actual situation below after the adoption of this law, will not be possible at the expense of the basic activity of the distribution of public goods if it threatens the quality, quality and quality of the provision of services to public service providers. That this law is as it is before you today is due to two-year coordination and an eight-month social dialogue. Even though you have before you a letter from one of the social partners, it is a minority and it is not the majority. Thirty representative public sector unions, with which we coordinated this regulation in accordance with Article five days, signed a declaration of consistency as an annex to this Act. Other operators, social society, non-governmental organisations, the ministries to which this regulation is intended have assessed, after such long coordination, the same as I also assess that this law eliminates the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the current arrangements that have been detected by the founders in 20 years, namely the municipality and the state, the operators and, in particular, the users of social services. These identified problems and inconsistencies, as well as the developmental non-adaptation of the existing regime based on the 1991 System Act, this is the Offices Act, which requires first changes and improvements at systemic level, this is the regulation before you today, and only as a result of changes at the level of the individual system of activity, both education, health, social protection and so on. In preparing the public debate and in the process of coordination with the social partners, we have taken their proposals into account to a large extent. I therefore personally assess that the new system framework provides a good basis for upgrading and improving these systems. Once again: the law itself is not reform, but it is the basis for good reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The content of the proposed law, which is intended to regulate the scope of activities of general interest in the future, is significantly broader and more complex in view of the current Law on Institutions and changes the concept of a functioning system of non-economic services in which activities of social interest are carried out. In the DeSUS Group, we do not deny the need to modernise the existing regime, but this bill is one of those whose members of the public have doubts that they will bring positive things to the users, and so it is also within our Group of Members. In the DeSUS Group, we are not convinced that the proposed law provides appropriate solutions for the area of activities that must be carried out in the spirit of the social state, as stated by our Constitution. It is the provision of public good, such as the provision of care for the elderly, the provision of health services, the conduct of education and education activities and so on. For all of these services, it is crucial to ensure that sufficient capacity is provided, that services are delivered in a quality manner and that they are affordable to all, in particular and in particular to users in the category of socially disadvantaged. In this regard, we are particularly concerned that the law allows and encourages the implementation of the basic activity of general interest and complementary activity at the same time. Therefore, commercial, profitable activities would be side by side with activities to be provided by the State or the local community in the public interest. Such services are already being provided within the framework of public services. According to known data, establishments generate 6,7 % of the revenue from complementary activities carried out. In doing so, the accounts of public institutions on the lines of complementary activities show a different picture today. Some of them have a profit. [[Pharmacy]] , others faced losses, including both university clinical centres. In many areas, the same services are provided in the public service regime and as market services, which means that users are forced to pay for services that should be provided as public services. Many people, because of long waiting periods, prefer to pay for a check, even though the same service is hidden from the health department. We are afraid that the bill offers an overly loose dictatorship of complementary activities and it is not entirely clear what to do and how to complement complementary activities in a fundamental way. In many cases, public service and complementary activity are exactly the same activity. The only difference between them is who pays for it. For example, in health care, whether it is covered by paid contributions and user insurance, or whether it is paid directly from its own pocket. If additional activities were to be allowed, strict criteria and clear grounds for individual public service activities should be laid down already in this umbrella law. However, the lacunae of the provisions of this Regulation provides, of course, full scope for regulation in the field rules provided for in the future. If there is no sharp gap between what needs to be provided as a service of general interest and what can be marketed, there is a great danger, I hope that 100 % of the likelihood that the latter will be deprived of public service users. In particular, areas where there is a problem of waiting periods are questionable, these are practically all areas, especially in nursing homes, in kindergartens and in health care. In addition, it is pointless and unacceptable to offer and carry out market activities in a public institution, as we are already recording in some areas the human resources deficit for the provision of public service services. As an issue in this law, we also assess the transfer of the assets of the founders — countries and municipalities — to future institutions or economic societies. Acquisitions of land and construction of buildings were financed from the resources of local communities, taxpayers' money, users' contributions and also through the self-contribution of citizens, and the law now provides a legal basis for public institutions that have this so-called social property under the applicable law alone in management to privatise and commercialise activities to the extent that they have the advantage over public interest, which means that the quality and quality of services and the range of public goods generally provided will be reduced. Experience has shown us to know that the privatisation and commercialisation of public services are causing more expensive, less accessible and less quality services. What does this mean for the health of people, the care of older citizens, the provision of mental protection, the implementation of public education programmes? And what if operators of general interest, in any legal form, are organised due to poor, irresponsible and non-economic activities to become liquidity problems? How are the losses to be covered? Will they be paid by the user or perhaps by the founder who will already contribute with the contribution of the asset? It is also important to ask whether we can afford bankruptcy of service providers of public interest? In the DeSUS Group, we are not convinced that the proposed regulation set up by this proposal would ensure smooth access to goods and services of public interest, a level playing field of accessibility for all, and in particular the conditions for these activities to be implemented in a manner that ensures their suitability, adequate quality and efficiency in performance for the benefit of users. We do not favour the proposal for a law in our parliamentary group. We are convinced that it poses a threat to the dismantling of public services in terms of the standard of services. It undermines equal access to them and the solidarity of the existing system of socially important goods. This law is a serious threat to the privatisation of property, which is evident in the own generation that has been created for years and years for itself and for the purpose of the craftsmen, and now there is a risk that services of special social importance will become subject to the market operation of those with large capital appetites and financial resources, or that the left share of the funds would even be donated. In the DeSUS Group, we oppose such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Minister, Government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! I read somewhere in the presentation of a law when someone said that the law was really good, because almost everyone was against it and they disagreed with its contents. Something similar is happening today with this proposed law. We read, we listen and we wonder. There is a huge criticism of the content of this law among the Member States. Eminent lawyers write opinions for and against. The minister, as she said in opposition coordination, said twice that the law was a compromise and that she was in line with the social partners, which is also a achievement. The effort has been enormous and, as I understand it, there are constant compromises. We are ahead of a relatively simple decision: support or not. If we support it, we will have a painful continuation, amendments, debates and debates. And then the question is, is he not going to fall on his mother's working body? If we refuse, we have missed all trains so that we can arrange this area — and we agree here — in a kind manner for 20 years. Then there is the remark that in fact Minister Krebs is saving Shirca's colleague because the story of RTV has failed. We asked the Minister explicitly in coordination, and we doubt if she was lying when she said no. Indeed, we do have many institutions in this country and in completely different activities. Some caution that these activities cannot be combined under a single roof law. However, the production of cars, medicines, telecommunications, construction and the production of shoes and cosmetics is not equal to each other, but we have the same roofing law, the Law on Economic Companies. Professor Pirnat wrote that it was too late and with vague concepts of proposed matter. Public service and complementary activities, and this free market in general, have confused us as well. In defining the free market, an amendment would be useful, although we know that lawyers and economists are different in interpreting this matter. The free market is clear to economists and therefore such a provision is in law on the ground. Complementary activities; here we are divisively expanding, as an example setting up kindergartens. It is known that kindergarten nutrition must comply with HACCP standards. It is also true that children want to have their friends in kindergartens on their birthdays with a cake that they cannot bring from home or buy in a pastry shop, so some kindergartens have decided that for an economic price, and that is to say, at the parents’ wish as an additional kindergarten activity, they offer a cake that is in line with all the standards and that their parents are paying for it. Probably, however, this complementary activity of kindergarten does not bring astronomical benefits, and it is probably right that it is also allowed. Therefore, this chapter, this dilemma in the law, needs to be clarified so that the concept of complementary activity can be clarified even if it opens up any wounds and inconsistencies in other laws. Some Members are convinced that the purpose of the bill is to enable Mr Jankovic, together with Mr Jaklic, to privatise Lekarna Ljubljana. Who's the problem now: scams, pharmacies or Jankovich and his ideas? If you don't like his ideas, that's not the problem with the National Assembly. According to the Slovenian National Party, the legal status of the Tivoli Institute is much more complex and difficult after possible adoption of this law than is the case with regard to Lekarna Ljubljana. The Tivoli Institute, among other things, markets the Stožice Hall. In the comparable world of the European Union, it is a purely economic activity that generates huge profits, possibly as a public-private partnership. It also regulates the multitude of smaller, non-profitable, old and used facilities. The options for transfer prices, the lack of subsidisation and thus possible illegality are enormous, and we have also alerted the Minister to this problem in the talks, which she has also attached to us. There will be a need for some status change, perhaps even separate accounting, which many know as a regulatory measure. Regarding competition between institutions, including in the field of university education, if you want, there are also different opinions on this. That's good, we're becoming a real participatory democracy. In the Slovenian National Party, we were never exactly excited about Americans and American politics at all and their views, but this time we give just one of the American academics who said in his interview with Youth that in Slovenia we will not be able to provide a first-class higher education system comparable to the best universities in the world, but not because of ignorance, but because of the poor management of universities in a democratic sense of governance. The second problem is free study and the third problem is that Slovenia can afford only one research university according to the reality. We have heard in the debate that this law takes the autonomy of universities. Autonomy is not just that they have unlimited resources and use them for scientific research activities. And then, through the institutes, some also make private profits with public money. So we don't talk in a year about high school tycoonization, about tycoon professors. The minister made a small but painful incision here. Topics such as profit and non-profit, public and private should be defined in terms of the decision and practice of the Courts of Justice of the European Union, of course, this calls for effort. A special effort will be needed to set up a public-private partnership. Some things are really unacceptable, especially the fact that this is explicitly excluded from the law. We think it's a mistake and the proponent will fix it. Concessions have been and will become a constant in our lives, whether we confess or not. In fact, the provision of public economic services through institutions is an entirely unfinished area. We keep saying that we must not instill certain public goods and their supply indefinitely, because this makes our citizens and citizens' economic status worse, and this also has a direct impact on inflation and public debt. Public economic institutions, directors, all of these are known forms that could be used to provide, for example, public water supply, fecal and meteor water discharges. We are seriously asked whether all of this must really be organised in the form of capital companies, whose purpose is to create a profit that is usually divided between management rather than to be designed to rebuild and rebuild infrastructure. Or we cannot combine public interest, providing basic public goods in some form of public-economic institutions, where reasonable prices will cover costs and bring minimum, logical and permissive profits, but not that we have profits on monopolistic activities that we are redirecting to others, whether at national or local level, in cities or in smaller municipalities. The law may be too late, but in our opinion it is worth trying to invite professors, eminents and others to offer a professional support to the applicant to fully process the bill until the second reading. Finally: as we claim in the Slovenian National Party's Group that the area governed by the proposed law is urgently regulated, we will support the law at first reading. However, we expect the proposal for a second reading to be drafted by a draft law that will take into account all comments, opinions and rescue proposals. And if they're not there, we'll reject the marriage at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-workers, honourable Members and Members. Public institutions in the Republic of Slovenia carry out an important task of public service for the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of the public service means the provision of goods and services which are carried out in the public interest under a specific public law regime and for which it is not intended to generate profits in the sense of creating surpluses over expenditure. The legislation on the basis of which public institutions operate has been adopted in 1991 and there have been no systemic changes to the public services sector since then. The public sector has developed organisationally and legally exclusively within the sector of certain policies and has been lagging behind the development of the economic sector in our country. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree with the bill's proposer that, from the analyses of ministries, from the Court of Auditors' audit reports, reports from the Councils of Public Institutions and Contributions, and from the experts' comments, a number of problems and inconsistencies in the field of the system of activities of general interest in the non-economic sector should be identified, and that changes should be introduced at systemic level to address these problems and to upgrade the system of regulation and implementation of public services accordingly. The basic direction to be followed in the implementation of public services is to ensure access under the same conditions and at a certain quality level for all users. In the LDS Club, we are convinced that the law in regulating the complementary activities of public institutions, according to their market situation, offers the right solutions which, on the one hand, protect the implementation of the basis of the activities of public institutions, while also allowing them to take place on the market with those products and services which are market-oriented, subject to strict respect for the principle of non-profit and the use of revenue surpluses over expenditure for the development of basic activities. Today we are witnessing different practices in the functioning of public institutions in the market, which is also due to unclear definitions of activities of general interest, complementary activities and also to unclear methodologies for pricing for these activities. Certainly in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support the intention of the law, which will, by means of a clear methodology of pricing, in particular complementary activities, eliminate market anomalies, which were due to prices of products or services that did not have the cost of using public funds. The draft law also regulates the award of concessions, which is regulated today in the Law on Public-Private Partnership. The provisions on the award of concessions are an upgrade to the existing system and make sense of this area. The Act on the implementation of activities of general interest has been in public debate since August 2010, when the first version of the Act was presented to the public and then under another name until 15 March 2011. We can see that the law has been harmonised at the level of the Economic and Social Council and also with most trade unions. Nevertheless, there are some open questions which have also been raised in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we miss the projection of the effects of the law on the performance of public services and the future organisation of public institutions, which would certainly help to give a clearer picture of the effects of this law on founders, users and public institutions themselves. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that the field of public institutions needs to be regulated in a way that will bring greater transparency, efficiency and autonomy, professional and business, where this makes sense, their business. At the same time, it is necessary to protect the founders of public institutions in a way that regulates the established relations between rights and obligations in a fair and proportionate manner. The proposed law certainly responds to a number of challenges in the modern implementation of public services and is, in a number of ways, a step away from the current regulation. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we do not have a unified position at this time, so we will listen to today's debate, the Minister's answers, and decide until the day of the vote how we will vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the shadow of many reforms and affairs, preparations have been made for the transformation of public institutions. In my opinion, this is one of the most radical interventions in a social system. This law will in some way legalize what we may later prosecute, and matters will prove to be legally covered. It is a legalised sale, debt and the consequent disappearance of around 1,500 public institutions, perhaps following the example of the University of Primorska, not only for Lekarna Ljubljana, through the reduction of the shares of municipalities and the state in public institutions and their exclusion from the establishment. Public property will disappear and public funds can be damaged without anyone being held liable for injury, which will all be covered by this law. This is a general problem in our country, all affairs end up in such a way that there is no legal basis for prosecution, that the matter was ultimately legal. I have to distance myself from the point of view that the law has been prepared and harmonised between entities, and between the stakeholders who are actually deciding, I will just count them. They oppose the Community of Slovene Municipalities, the Pomurska Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community, the Municipality of Domžale, the Union of Retired Associations of Slovenia. The Slovenian Union of State Authorities considers the proposal to be unacceptable and must be rejected. Union of Culture and Nature of Slovenia – Glossa, Trade Fire Union of Slovenia, Health and Social Welfare Union of the Ministry of Defence. The proposal was also rejected by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia; we received a number of letters and calls for rejection just those days. The proposal was also rejected by the Movement to preserve and improve public health. They also called for the rejection of the bill from the ZAO, signed by Nevenka Lekša, President Za Us and long-standing President of the Health and Social Welfare Union. The Union of Disabled Persons of Slovenia, the Independent Union of Slovenia, also expressed its concerns and could also mention that I probably let someone go. If we add it all up, it's a huge population and a number of subjects. To say that this proposal has been coordinated – several days have passed, more entities are reporting. A number of calls for rejection of this law have just been made in the last few days. It will probably be a comment that we are talking about, but it can also be argued with the articles of the law. For example, for illustration only, Article 12: the municipality and the state must transfer property of a public institution which has less than 50% share of public funding and can also be transferred to other institutions. Privatization in pieces. Of course, there is a need for agreement for a certain higher percentage of privatisation, but not for a smaller percentage. How many times are we going to be able to sell a department? A whole series of dilemmas are triggered by this concept, and I do not think it is possible to amend it. The introduction to the law, in fact, the introductory articles, has already been disputed. The transfer of state and municipal property, we can also say social property. Many institutions, kindergartens were built with self-contribution. Transfer to autonomous administrations – this is a group of people who will be able to have this money independently. Participation of the private sector in the institution's rights. All this, I would say, this sui generis of confusion will lead to impreciseness and legal irreconcilability, but whoever has engaged in fishing knows well that in mud best fishermen and so will this law. I have yet to say many things, but I will leave it to my fellow Members to express their views. I'm adamant against myself. colleague Willi Rezman believes that the law can still be fixed and finalized, Mr Žnidaršič will be defined. I call on Members to take this law seriously by Wednesday, when the vote is held, and not to say privatisation and commercialisation of public institutions. In my opening remarks, the law is conceptually so wrong that it cannot be amended and it is an opportunity to reject a model that will become a model for the future health reform that is yet to follow, and for other public institutions that I have already talked about. In a way, this law had already been rejected. As soon as we have rejected the Health Act in public debate, also for these reasons, which I am listing today. We have also rejected the RTV Act because the institution is transformed into an economic society or a similar institution of which lawyers do not know what the status is. Well, the law has already been rejected. I think that if we reject it, we will only confirm what has already been rejected in some way in the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group will be presented by Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, we are adopting arguments in favour of the adoption of the Act on the implementation of the activities of general interest, as it is clear that the analysis of ministries, the reports of the Audit Court and the Councils of Public Institutions, as well as the warnings of the professional public, which point to certain problems and inconsistencies in the areas to be regulated by the proposed law, is to be heard. The basic objective of the law is also acceptable to address the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the current regulation in such a way as to ensure that activities are carried out of general interest in a way that public goods are provided and accessible to all users under the same conditions. It is also important that the law consistently identifies activities of general interest and address the current shortcomings in the funding system, the regulation of status forms and the identification of operators of general interest. We are of the opinion that the proposal for a legislative text governs many of the above-mentioned content, but at the same time we note that the areas that will need to be upgraded in the process of adopting the law are also appropriate. This applies both in the general sense and from the point of view of indigenous national communities. I believe that in the process of adopting this law or this bill, it can be upgraded. If, for the first time, I focus on the comments of a general nature, it should be pointed out that, despite the efforts of the competent ministry and the Minister, unfortunately, we are also now faced with opposition from some trade unions and other entities. I believe that, given the political circumstances we are in, we should take these warnings very seriously. I do not argue that the right approach would be if, because of some shortcomings or perhaps some major systemic problems, the proposed text was totally rejected and did not allow the text to be upgraded in future readings, as the law is clearly needed. At present, however, it is necessary to analyse the warnings that the proposal makes it possible for public institutions and concessionaires to carry out activities of general interest and other, including commercial or profitable activities at the same time, which could be harmful. This is a comment that most often emerges from the context of the proposed views. Similarly, we find that deeper analysis is also worth warning that a bill could make it possible to legalise the privatisation of certain public institutions in which it would not be socially beneficial. Whether this is the case or not, of course, views vary greatly. Therefore, I propose that appropriate attention be paid to the content before or during the second reading and that the text be upgraded, if necessary, or amended accordingly. The second aspect, however, is one that is particularly important from the point of view of our Group of Members. In particular, the proposal for this law is important for the Italian and Hungarian national communities, as the organisation of the two national communities also governs certain segments. The content is particularly important because the national communities are founders or co-founders of institutions in the national mixed area in the fields of education, culture and information and publishing in their own language. These areas are particularly important for the existence and development of national communities. That is why it is all the more necessary to analyse the bill carefully. In the second paragraph of Article 18 of the Law, it is rightly stated that, I quote, "the right to establish a public institution also has a national community when it comes to activities which enable the exercise of the rights of members of national communities." Perhaps, on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution, it should be noted more specifically that it is a legitimate organisation of the national community, i.e. self-governing national communities. If I continue to do so, as the competent authority of the Hungarian National Self-Governmental Community, which, by the way, welcomes this law and does not oppose it, it is necessary to record these communities consistently in the rest of the text. We believe that Article 21 of the bill should also provide for the exercise by their saints of the Founding Rights for the Self-Governmental National Communities. In fact, the general text provides for this. It should be considered whether, in Article 44, which refers to the name of the institution, it would not be appropriate to record that the language of indigenous national communities is equally used in the national mixed area. Otherwise, Article 46, which speaks of the language of the name of the institution, correctly summarises the spirit of Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of an analysis of the text in our parliamentary deliberation group, I propose that if the contents of Article 46 were to be included before the contents of Articles 44 and 45, of course I am referring to the current proposal and that the content of Article 44 should be complemented accordingly, or that the text of the bill should not be more appropriate in this context at least. The already mentioned Council of the Hungarian National Self-Governmental Community proposes to define more specifically the role and the task of co-establishing a public institution. As an argument, this issue also appears in the past as insufficiently defined content, causing considerable confusion. In the case of the Hungarian National Community, this issue is particularly pressing because a bilingual model has been established in the field of education, which requires that all educational institutions are set up together with the local community or with the State, and in such cases the role of the national self-government community as co-founders is often inconsistent, which in many cases makes unnecessary conflicts conditional. The said body also proposes to supplement the provisions of the proposal for a law on the use and knowledge of the language of indigenous national communities concerning professional and managerial workers. Let me finish. We expect our comments and views to be taken into account that they will be discussed and that the text of the law in the course of the adoption procedure will be appropriately upgraded. In the hope that this will actually be the case, we will support the proposal for a decision that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues, colleagues. In our July 2008 alternative government programme, the Social Democrats pointed out that we are far behind other European countries in the field of public services and that our existing legislation is outdated and inadequate for any modernisation of public services. It is therefore necessary to modernise the legal system of public institutions and to allow these public services to carry out their activities autonomously. At the same time, effective control over the implementation of these activities should be established. Modernisation of public services has also been presented as part of a coalition contract as a priority for this government, and perhaps the current law does come to the National Assembly a little late. Nevertheless, we believe that the public sector can offer public services of higher quality, while at the same time it is possible, under the limited conditions laid down in the acts of the institution, to carry out complementary activities in the private sector market in accordance with the rules in force on the market. In doing so, it should be noted that unfair competition would not occur. However, the modernisation of public services, where quality non-profit activities will be carried out for all citizens and citizens, will not only be sufficient to amend legislation, but will require a mental leap in the management of public institutions as well as in the setting up of public institutions. Leaderships must consider how to ensure, by public means, the best possible and qualitative implementation of non-profit activities of general interest, and the founder will have to regularly monitor and supervise the work of the institution he has set up and transfer to management the assets of the State or the municipality. The public sector in Slovenia is the property, structural and management sector as it was in 1991, that is, 20 years ago when it was adopted to date almost unchanged and still in force. At that time, the property of the current self-governing organizations of social activities was temporarily converted into the property of the founder, i.e. the property of the State or the municipality. Despite enormous changes in the economy or in the private sector, the public sector has been maintained to this day, although the legal definition was that the assets of the organizations concerned in the field of social activities become the property of the founder, defined as a transitional sector, and that the public sector has to date remained some kind of market for transitions. In the years since the adoption of the Law on Institutions, the public sector has developed exclusively in the context of sectoral specific policies, i.e. participatory, sectoral ones. None of the governments so far have led horizontal policies or the development of non-economic public services and have established common governance rules. Unlike the economic public services developed under the auspices of one ministry responsible for the economy, there have been and are still the non-economic public services under the control of a large number of responsibly responsible ministries. The universal application of the form of a public institution – both for administrative activities and for various regulatory activities, for example, in the area of pension and health insurance or employment, as well as for so-called creative activities such as health, school, cultural activity, science, public information – has led to an increase in the autonomy, professional responsibility and creativity of operators in the management of stronger policy influences and powers and the number of officials in public authorities, in short, an increase in the ethatisation of public institutions' autonomy. It is therefore welcome that we have received a law which constitutes the legal framework for the necessary organisational reform of the implementation of public services. Reform must be based on legal and organisational release and increasing the diversity of legal entities of public service providers. Public sector reform must not be at the heart of, and must not be, reducing the scope of public services or any basis for privatisation of the public sector, but rather a better organisation, more transparent governance and thus greater efficiency of the public sector. In principle, we agree with the legal and organisational distinction between institutions that sell their services on a competitive market and do not need direct State control, such as institutions with limited liability and institutions directly financed from the budget, institutions with unlimited liability. This means transforming those current public institutions that carry out so-called market public services and other market activities and do not require direct State control into public institutions with limited liability, whose management assumes responsibility for the operation of the institution also in relation to creditors. Gained business autonomy will certainly release incentives for greater creativity and, above all, for greater efficiency, quality and rationality in the delivery of public services. The transformation must not be self-sufficient, but under control and on the basis of the decisions of the founder and also of the ministries of the field. The change in the status form also does not mean privatisation, but merely a change in the legal form of the legal organisation or a change in the way public services are carried out. Institutions selling their services on the market, as I have already mentioned several times, have to be transferred to the property required to carry out the activity. This also confers on the authorities of these institutions the responsibility for asset management. This includes the independent management of public procurement procedures, as well as the other responsibility for maintaining assets, investments and development. The contribution of State or municipality assets to public institutions as persons of public law does not mean, once again, that it does not mean that these assets have been withdrawn from the public sector or, as some have misinterpreted, that does not mean privatisation. A public institution, even though the owner is not only the owner of the property, as a person of public law, remains fully under the supervision of the founder, who retains the power to give consent to transfers of assets to or outside the institution. Corporate management in limited-liability institutions should be regulated in accordance with principles and in the manner regulated in companies, this is with a three-partite supervisory board, which performs solely a staff and supervisory function, but not a management function, which is given to the Director who has these management powers. The private offer of public services could only complement the backbone of the public service represented by the current public service institutions, not replace it. The involvement of private concessionaires in the public service system is welcome everywhere where complementarity or additional activities are concerned, further in areas that are poorly covered by the public network, and in areas where the maintenance of the public network may be less rational than the award of a concession under the same quality standards. The importance of this law to improve the efficiency and quality of public services and public finances is, of course, significant, and by calculations, if only 10% would increase the income of public institutions from the market and reduce public revenues so much, this would save at least €500 million per year. The processes that we are releasing thus ensure greater efficiency of the public sector, with the continued scope and quality of the public services and thus the savings of public finances. The law expressly provides that activities of general interest shall be carried out in an unprofitable manner. Therefore, the objective of carrying out activities of general interest is not to gain profit. The law brings a number of advantages, particularly in releasing opportunities for greater organisational flexibility of the public sector and brings greater business autonomy for part of public institutions, but also greater responsibility for the management of institutions. The advantages certainly outweigh the weaknesses of a particular marriage text or risk, which, of course, needs to be addressed in the context of texting. Sectoral simulations of the status restructuring need to be carried out or presented to us and further discussed on the law, since it is only by doing so that the sectoral degradation of the public institutions system can be prevented. So the bill cannot generally be attributed to the fact that it wants to privatise non-economic public services. The draft law contains a clear definition of their non-profit nature, which is essential, while allowing for private sector cooperation. However, in further discussions, perhaps even in a public presentation of opinions, it is necessary to strengthen those parts of the law based on solidarity, equality and more specifically to regulate the control of private operators of public services, as well as the permissible economic activity. The social democrats will support the marriage by a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much. If a person first turned on television cameras and looked at this hall, I would say that “not everything is breathing” – or what a person would call it in the human language. Yesterday we discussed the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the coalition's proponent, the commitment to such a law is in the coalition contract, and then a cohesive coalition throws the matter. We have before us the Act on the implementation of activities of general interest, which is intended to replace the Law on Institutions and in part the Law on Public-Private Partnership. When I listened to the intercessors, except for Zares, whom I would be happy to listen to, I see that, in fact, no group of Members is united in this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Dr. Gorenak, you'd be very grateful if you could present your position. Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you very much. And I'd ask you, too, if you could just hold on and hold on to me for once. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	I run the sessions, Dr. Gorenak. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	More, yes, lead, yes, thank you. [[...]] See, therefore, the views of the parliamentary groups are negative, more or less, and we also have or have received on the table a number of comments from civil organisations concerning this law in one way or another. We do not want to accept as dry gold all that these civil organisations, trade unions and so on write. Among them are those who have declared a medical concession in the previous term to be a privatisation of health care. That's why I don't take their letters as dry gold. But there are those among them who, in fact, always have a constructive, realistic attitude toward all of this. See, the Union of Workers with Disabilities of Slovenia has addressed all Members, Movement for the Conservation and Improvement of Public Health, Regional Development Agency for Koroška, Union of State Authorities of Slovenia, Trade Fire Union of Slovenia, Health and Social Welfare Union of Slovenia, Trade Union of the Ministry of Defence, Municipality of Domžale, Association for Civil Health Care, Community of municipalities of Slovenia, be careful, Community of municipalities of Slovenia, this is not a person who has any private interests, Pomurska Hungarian Self-government National Community, which essentially supports the law, but has some suggestions and improvements. See who also responded: The Union of Retired Slovenian Associations, Mrs Mateja Kožuh Novak, who supports even pension reform and coalition, and here it seems that she has not endured and invites all Members to reject this law. The Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia has supported the law, i.e. between those who support the law and we have just received the e-mails, you can see a letter withdrawing their support, i.e. they oppose the law. If you look a little wider around the world, not just for domestic fences, you will find that the OECD recommendations also talk about this. But look what the OECD recommendations say. I am afraid that these recommendations have also been read by authors and read them as they did by the Ministry of the Economy and said: in Slovenia we will introduce three-month guarantees for technical products, but have not read in European documents that this is the lowest standard so that Member States can have a higher standard. So what do the OECD recommendations say? They talk about efficient management of non-economic companies, say that, where possible, the legal organisational forms of the private sector should be used in non-economic companies, with an emphasis on the possibility of granting concessions to non-economic public services. But the OECD is not Slovenia, the OECD and Slovenia have, which is a member, but something has to be said that the OECD comes from most countries where socialism is not known at all. [[...]] The OECD recommendations are, in my view, very appropriate for all systems that did not have socialism and social property. And these recommendations have nothing to deny that there will be no special mistake. For those who listen to me, I also need to make a clear report. In the SDS, as you know, we are, and will also support private systems in the field of so-called social activities today, such as health care, education, social care and so on. For us, this is not an addition, and so on and so forth, once we reach the level of the Western European countries, this could also be a basic activity, which will also provide lower prices in the form of large competition. So I also disappoint those who advocate some surviving models. So we're defending these systems, but for our money! For us it is not a problem to build a home for the elderly, it is not a problem for us to make a health clinic, it is not a problem for us to make a private school, but for our money, not for the state money, or for the money that goes like that, or for the money that goes like that, or you know, "the corner" in our pocket. Oh, no. However, we do not support some kind of covert privatisation or ownership of today's public institutions, which are more or less created by taxpayers' money, which is what happens after most of those who have commented, and I have also observed this in the LSD position, in fact with this law. If we were to be convinced that this was not true, we could change our attitude. So for SDS it's not a private hospital problem, as I said, etc., but, I repeat, for my money, as much as possible, the better it will be, the greater the competition will be, the lower the prices will be. However, it is not possible and difficult for me to accept the fact that a government that has a social democratic note actually wants to go through this law, so the provisions show, in the property of public institutions, which are in some way, as we know social or national-municipal, in some very secret way, to bring in a private person who will then buy it and become owner, just as he has become owner, as the owners of those who have tacunized the economy. Not only the opposition MPs have been exposed, but look, many coalition MPs have come forward. You may have read in the media the views of Mr Germić, Mr Trofenik, from various parties, Mrs Mlakareva, all three are from different parties. These thoughts are quite similar to ours. I'm not gonna say they're the same, but they're similar to ours. Now, if these thoughts, and if they set laws – I emphasise that, Minister, conditionally – if the laws are laid down – as we understand them and as understood by these people and those writers of comments, hold, then it would indicate that the government is bowing its head and becoming red. In the criminal language, but it's a little bit closer to me, one would say that the proponents are caught with corpus delicacies. This means that they are caught in evidence proving a crime. If we read things the way we see them. Who's in? For the Municipality of Nova Gorica. And this is for, absolutely, this was the only letter I've ever seen to support. In detail, however, there is our next position; we basically believe that the law cannot be amended. There's no way to do that. On the contrary! Now, whether proposers will withdraw it, there is also the possibility that the coalition will act in the same way as in the Law on the Construction of Buildings, where it is feared by human will. That's possible, too. Otherwise, if there is a vote on an irregular law, of course we will vote against it. Quickly, I still have time, so let me quickly fly over the disputed provisions. See, municipalities must, the word "must" transfer assets to public institutions in their own place where they have less than 50% of the shares financed from public funds, but in other cases, Articles 12 and 20. Will the congregations have any interest in doing so? Why would the congregations do that? Because the municipalities can also set up directors. Maybe they'll come through better, I don't know. Instead of the boards of institutions, users, founders, employees, management and supervision shall be established in the form of the Director of the Supervisory Board. So this is a pure economic model. The institutions are becoming financially autonomous. Autonomous in the handling of property and in our understanding of Article 13 employees as public servants can "swipe" out of the system. This means that we can expect blackmail at higher wages. Look, surpluses, that way at least we understand the law, surpluses from the profitable part of the institution's activities can go to pay. This is then no longer an unprofitable institution, then an economic society, they will be able to pay, for leadership awards and other incentives, all the surpluses can go there. What does that mean? That means desire at higher prices. Makes sense, doesn't it? If these institutions were not to say too much, competition would already have done its part, but because competition cannot do its part in the current state, it makes sense what will happen, as with any power company and anyone else. Short, higher, higher and higher prices and a desire for profit. Therefore, public capital will be invested in these private institutions, so I understand at least Article 18. Public capital will therefore invest in these private institutions, private capital, both domestic and foreign, can have unlimited shares. See, if private capital can have unlimited shares, then it is clear that private capital will enter and through the clean system that we knew in the economy, we will say small shareholders economically, and here the municipality and the country will rise. And he'll become the majority owner. This, of course, means the uprooting of these municipal and state shares. The municipalities are responsible for public health and education. To ensure that they transfer funds to institutions, but look, they have to represent institutions before courts, municipalities have to pay late interest, they have to be in solidarity with the institution, in short, the municipalities or the state have obligations to the institutions, but in fact they have no possibility of having any more influence on the institution. That, Minister, is what I see in Articles 20, 31, 37, 38 and 42. This is on the one hand: responsibilities yes, assets yes, and possibilities of influence are no longer. For institutions where the state or municipality has less than 50 per cent of its share, you know that these are kindergartens, some social institutions, pharmacies, health care institutions, some social welfare institutions, virtually all cultural homes, are envisaged to be transformed into independent economic societies. So the economy goes into this part of it, which is still, in some ways, still municipal, state or, as we like to say, common importance for the welfare of all citizens. Whose is the basic property, and how did kindergartens come into being, how did cultural homes, schools come into being if you wanted to? We built them with self-contributions, day-to-day earnings, or do you remember the ones you're my age or a little younger. We've also made a one-day profit by building these institutions. Now we're gonna give it up and privatize it. Such cases are envisaged on their own, and see what is envisaged for these future companies, I say, in their own debt. It's possible sales. The director of the current office, as he will be called then, will see for himself that he will be able to decide on the investments of 500 000 euros. For half a million euros, the director of this future institution will be able to decide where to put them. He will also decide on the loans himself, he will rent 100,000 Euros of credit, no one will have to ask and he will own it. Do you think this system is manageable by the state and the municipalities? No, this system is no longer manageable, and the congregations would be eliminated. What's he selling? Has anyone thought of bankruptcy? We're going to have a health home bankruptcy, we're going to have a kindergarten bankruptcy, we're going to have a cultural home bankruptcy, and they're going to be selling tomatoes there probably some of our former fellow citizens or current citizens from somewhere else. The law allows for total privatisation, at least that's how we read this law. This, of course, means alienation, privatisation of current municipal and state property. Instead of these public institutions, they would have obtained commercial companies where the activity of general importance would no longer be primary and would no longer be important. The founder – the state, the municipality – will have only one capital investment until private capital sends him out. Look, there's something else interesting about this government setting up here like mushrooms in the rain. We're getting a new accreditation body again. How many have we got? How many agencies do we already have and everything else, established and born within the mandate of this government? The new accreditation body, this is something completely new, is unacceptable to us, because the municipalities have completely escaped and free appointment procedures, so according to our assessment, such an authority brings only costs and benefits, but it is not necessary. It is also interesting that, according to our assessment, it is unacceptable, Article 89 provides for the use of financial surpluses to be decided by the Supervisory Board. See, the spending of surpluses is therefore decided by the Supervisory Board. You've overlooked the Accounting Act. We therefore expect that in this Chamber, if all of these warnings – I apologize, maybe some of my warnings do not, perhaps, allow it, will show a further process. But with all this crowd and all the comments that have come, with all this crowd and a mixture of people who can also have bad intentions, as I mentioned earlier in health concessions that some have once declared to be the privatization of health care, but I think that among these comments there are also such, I think, in particular, the Community of Slovene Municipalities, the Union of Free Trade Unions and others which do not appear to be overlooked. So for now, this law has our red light, for now, and I feel like green can't be lit in the process. Thank you very much, Mr President, for holding on without interrupting me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Please, no comment, Dr. Gorenak. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. You're right. But we have Aloys Potočnik written. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Your Honor! So what is the basic objective of the bill? In particular, it is a matter of establishing a system-wide basis for ensuring through the constitution of guaranteed rights. The draft law establishes a general framework and a single starting point for defining, standardising, implementing and monitoring activities of general interest and sets out the possible status of the institution and the content and procedure for granting concessions. A key novelty is also a system of financing activities of general interest based on the payment of the price of public goods and not on the payment of the operator, which will enable all operators to be of general interest in an equal position. Chapter 2 regulates public and private institutions as legal persons who independently carry out activities of general interest as a core activity in an unprofitable manner. The public authority shall define as a legal person of public law one or more activities of general interest. A public institution may be established as a public institution with limited liability or as a public institution with unlimited liability. The legal organisation of a public institution shall therefore be determined by means of a sectoral law or by a decision of the local community if it is its original jurisdiction. In Chapter 3, the Act newly regulates concessions and provides that concessions may be granted to a legal or natural person where the public network cannot ensure the performance of activities of general interest to such an extent and of such quality or in such a way that it is accessible to all its users without hindrance. Therefore, the activity of general interest is primarily carried out within the public network and the public network is complemented by concessions only to the extent and where the State or the self-government local community cannot ensure, for objective reasons, that the activities are carried out in a prescribed manner. In doing so, the bill seeks to prevent the award of concessions on the basis of circumstances and interests which, with a view or objective, have no or no connection to the extent and manner in which the public service is carried out. In recent times they have been emerging, we can say that for a long time, including positions on the dangers of privatisation, commercialisation and tycoonisation of public institutions. The fact is, in our view, these arguments do not hold true. For a little while, why? There is no reference in the law to the privatisation of public institutions, nor to the transformation of institutions into economic societies, which we have heard almost before. What does the law say? The founder, i.e. the municipality, state or national community, will provide the basic assets and resources for the activities of the institution, which means the transfer of assets to a limited public institution. This intended transfer of assets does not in any way constitute an appeal to privatisation. In the Group of Members, however, we do not object to such amendments to the law which would enforce, if it seems necessary, additional legally justified safeguards to strengthen and protect public interest. Aware of this, and I stress that the very legal property nature is the basis that allows us to speak and realize what we call public or public interest. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the law will help to increase transparency and clarity in the implementation of activities of general interest, and we believe that the law is such that we can support it, even because we distinguish between the expression profit under the Company Act and accounting standards and between the excess of income over expenditure. Great substantive difference, colleagues, essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Now it is true: the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I wonder if the government, the ministers, the president and the government are aware of where this law leads you to indulge the interests of capital by means of the proposed law. If this is conscious, then it is immoral, if this is unconscious, but it is an expression of incompetence. In my first appearance here in this Chamber, I expressed my concern about whether the authorities in this country have democratically elected politicians or whether they have the power of capital. The basic objective of this law is, according to the applicant, to address the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the current regime and to regulate the area governed by the Act of Status on Institutions in a manner that ensures that activities of general interest are carried out in such a way as to ensure that adequate and high-quality public goods are provided and accessible to all users under the same conditions. Sounds great and nice, but what the hell is going on in the details? A new law in the field of public institutions is certainly necessary, but it is very likely that it is not in the same content as it is in front of us today. The idea that from the very beginning a branch of the bill that the founder has only duties has, but the institutions which are supposed to be service services, but only rights, is difficult to accept. When damage occurs, however, the founder is always responsible at the final stage. What is essential: the possession of the remaining remains of state and municipal property is totally unacceptable. On the basis of this law, commercial companies would be acquired, where the activity of general interest would no longer be important, and the founder would have only capital investments in society until the private capital of the known formula would uproot it. I find it difficult to believe that at the start of the global economic and financial crisis, these entrepreneurs have ever come to an article such as this: the global economic and financial crisis has not only reduced consumer demand, but it has highlighted other problems of the global economic system, namely excessive consumption, reckless indebtedness and environmental pollution. More acceptable consumption will have to be found, while at the same time encouraging economic growth, which is key to eradicating poverty and social inequality. A redefinition of the quality life-style, economic development and social values is needed. In this law before us, I think we are moving away from these social values. In fact, this concept legitimizes the decommissioning of both public institutions and social services, both in the field of education, health and social services. It will make the population even more diversified as it will make it possible to make huge profits by commercialising activities and, on the other hand, it will affect the weakest segments of the population. I wonder who assures us that these earnings will be returned to the treasury for the good of the public. So that they do not turn to the good wages of individuals, to the profits of hidden owners, who have already emboldened Slovenian companies and are waiting, looking for prey. The very idea of what this is about at this time and moment is totally unacceptable, let alone to legalize such possibilities. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we strongly oppose such a proposal and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. I would use my time, taking into account the statements made by some Members to present the law. Here. The law is comprehensive, has an accurate analysis of the situation that we are witnessing to today and everything that the honourable Members are saying today, commercialisation is a license and in a wide variety of public institutions to the detriment of the core activity for which we have set up a public institution. We've done the analysis, you have the analysis in the bill. What is the scope of market activity, how imprudent is the business and movement between the core activity that we have been building schools, hospitals, universities and so on, today we are witnessing in a vague way. That hurts. At the same time, you say that this law will allow for commercialisation in an important part. The path, in the analysis of the situation, we clearly wrote this down because there is no limit, because this is not systemically regulated, it is happening. If you have patience, I will show you in the 10 articles how we have restricted it. About the privatisation. I will continue to focus again on this part so that you will see that absolutely not a word you are saying is true. And the third thing is, he's only holding one. That we have carefully analysed the weaknesses, the bad practices in the current regime, which do not place the users of public goods in the same position as they warn us. In the opening part of the law, all these shortcomings are listed, and the solutions to the law eliminate them. This is not a radical intervention because, given that it is consistent with the social partners, it was not possible to expect it, so Dr Pirnat says little. I myself have led all the coordination with the social partners, and I know exactly what this law says. So, which are the essential shortcomings that are precisely defined and described in the explanation of the law. So far, the Institutes Act of 1991 has regulated only the status form of the public institution as it was regulated. The section noted that the lack of common ground for these important activities which define the country as a social state would therefore be important to identify common starting points and conditions under which hospitals, schools, nursing homes can carry out these activities. The first ten articles set out these common starting points that we did not have for these services today. The representative of the SD Group said exactly. Policies have been partially regulated in the rules, so in many areas today we do not even have the standards and standards on which to define whether our institutions are effective or not effective, or whether the material and human resources we have are sufficient to carry out them. We don't have that. This law makes this an obligation. I'll explain later. So the common ground, the first ten articles, is to note that it is essential to establish a regime that will ensure the smooth, lasting, qualitative implementation of the activities that the State or the municipality must provide under the Constitution. In a certain part, these two communities also act as founder for members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities. They're the only founders. They're people of public law. These are not individuals of private law. These are not companies, they are not privatised companies. The legal regime of a person of public law is a public legal regime. It has to work under the Public Finance Act, under the Civil Servants Act, pure nonsense that they will no longer be public servants. Where does it say that? So they won't be in the Wage System Act anymore, where does this law say that? The aspirations of individual sectors after independence are legitimate, but this law does not say so. Fears of privatisation may exist. Today, capital investments are privatising – despite the ban in the Public Finance Act, we are witnessing this, but under the current system regime. Second: the issue of status forms of public institutions. The institutions themselves, because they are so different, have been very clear in their twenty years of carrying out their activities, and this is also in their explanation, have found that only such a type of public institution as today, for all kinds of activities, is not enough, is not good, as is now being practiced in practice, has many problems. Therefore, in this law, we define two persons of public law, two types of public institutions, but there is nothing to be ordered here, and in the sector-specific regulations they will have to determine what type of public institution will be used for a particular activity. And for the most frequently used primary schools, after discussions with the Ministry of Education, which has been coordinated, the arrangements will in fact be very similar to those used today, except that the Council of this Public Institution will no longer have supervisory powers and not yet, because today the powers were mixed and we did not know who is responsible for anything. Public service providers: The reasons for the adoption of this law are well stated that it is unacceptable for public service providers to be treated differently. You don't have that anywhere in the world. Today’s regulation allows the public service to be implemented in a way that allows the municipality or the state, depending on who the founder is, to establish a public institution or grant a concession to a private person. Both perform the same public service, but the arrangements we have today; these two performers of the same public service, one on the basis of the grant of the concession, and the other on the grounds that the founder established it, are in different situations, both as regards prices, as regards supervision, etc. That's unacceptable. In this law, of course, we regulate this inadmissibility by defining for both, for all operators authorised to perform the public service, the same mode of implementation, cost management, control, etc. The funding system. The funding system has been such that our public institutions get what they need and it is controlled whether they have used up these public funds as they have received. Concessionaires in accordance with the contract, in fact, in the second principle. Through this law, we will introduce a principle that will also allow all operators to be equally paid, namely that public service payments will be based on the payment of the price or programme of individual public goods and not on the operator as such. We have dealt most with what you keep reminding us of and is detrimental to the implementation of the core activities of today's public institutions, namely commercialisation, the conduct of market activities. I apologize. Today's system regulation says that public institutions can also engage in market activities. Is it restricted? What regulation restricts this today? Not even a word. They are doing it and, in explanation on three sides, we point out how big the problem is because it is not controlled, whether this market activity may pose a threat to the core activity that we have set up the institution in the first place. That's what we're witnessing today. Now you are saying that we are introducing this, and in the ten articles, we are so restrictively addressing this issue with the help of trade unions, if you will, in the extreme version of this regulation, where many of us thought together how to limit it. I would like to present this to you in detail. So, what is today a problem, commercialisation and what many have actually said to bring this law, is what we are witnessing today, and the purpose of this law is to absolutely regulate it, as it must be regulated. Six flaws. What are we overseeing today in public institutions or concessionaires entrusted with the public service? In a significant part, they are under-supervised, they are not supervised, but above all, they are controlled by the dedicated use of financial resources provided by the founder for work in the form of financial plans. The results of the operation are not controlled, but not among the types of controls, which we write very clearly, of course only at the general level, because it is a general law, but in the field rules four types of supervision will have to be provided and all will be monitored equally. The seventh problem she warned the profession about. If you are looking at the sectoral rules or how concessions were granted. There were no conditions when the concession was awarded. In the Law on Economic Public Services and in the Law on Public-Private Partnership, it was called upon that, in fact, to grant concessions under this Regulation, these sectors — education, education, social services and so on — where they are implemented, because there the concession is more written on the skin to economic public services, it is often inappropriate for these social activities, the non-economic sector, and in this part it is said that it would be wise to regulate a concession in one law when the founder decides to perform the public service through the concessionaire, in one regulation and of course in this law we regulate, but not only the procedure, but even more so, the conditions for the founder to grant the concession, not as in public institutions where the concession is granted for the provision of public service and the public funds account. This imprudent award of concessions is an extremely important private initiative in the eyes of the Slovenian public and also in your eyes has led us to a degree that we find this way of performing public service something unacceptable. But it's just because of the poor system. The granting of an authorisation to a private person, where you specify exactly the conditions where you define the price, where you define control, is, of course, absolutely equally permissible after the old arrangement, and now we regulate it even better. Well, then, how did we fix it? Once again: in the first 10 articles we regulate 10 common principles for sectoral policies. In the second part, we define the status forms of institutions, which we clearly develop so as not to interfere with powers between authorities. In the fourth part, we also clearly define the authorities of management, management, competence, relationship with the founder, including new programming documents, public participation, financial management. In a specific chapter, we regulate concessions and regulate transitions in transitional provisions. You have referred, many of them, to a part of the transitional provisions, or in a significant part to the comments of individual civil society, and also to part of the comments of the Association for Civil Health Care, Mrs Nevenka Lekša has been signed and says that in the transitional provisions the law regulates the possibility of transforming public institutions into an economic society, you have mentioned many times. Public institutions that, on average, do not reach half of their total income in the last three years prior to the entry into force of this law must be transformed into an economic society. [[...]] This provision is not in the law, it is nowhere, nor in the transitional decisions, then I will explain them to you. So let's go to the first part, the first 10 articles, which are extremely important, at least for me, as a user of this good, I want them to set objectives in accordance with this law in the field rules. The aim of standardisation by area is to ensure that operators of these activities provide our citizens with adequate, quality and all users with equally accessible public goods. This is a goal that will have to be followed by all sectoral legislation. What will be the activity of general interest? We clearly state the definition that this activity, which is provided in the public interest, is funded permanently and smoothly or co-financed by a State or a municipality, we call it public goods. Let us identify possible forms of public service delivery or distribution of public goods. We say that as public services, when it comes to uninterrupted permanent, such as the constitution of a certain right to education, health and so on, where the network will have to be determined and so on. We also allow co-financing. Today, we have cases where individual societies are carrying out activities of general interest, but this will be defined by the sector rules, by firefighting companies and so on, where the state co-finances part of their existence or a combination of both forms for their public, useful activities. We clearly define non-profit as a system of implementation of activities of general interest, regardless of the status form in which it is implemented. Even if the concessionaire is to carry out the activity, he will have to implement it in an unprofitable way, because there can be no difference here between the public institution and the concessionaire. For me, it is essential, and at least for me, please read carefully Article 7 of this Act in conjunction with the transitional provision, which is Article 171 of this Act. Article 7 clearly sets out the uniform starting points to be laid down in the sectoral regulations of the ministries when preparing their regulations, it is mandatory to provide for any transformation in accordance with this law; this is provided for in Article 171. No transfers of property to anyone, or as little as you said today, will be. The substance set out in Article 7 has been sent to preparers of substantive rules in the areas of health, education, higher education, social care for people, and so on, that they will have to lay down in their regulations at least what is provided for in Article 7. In particular, they will need to specify the type and scope of the activities of general interest. They will have to lay down standards and standards as a basis for implementing and financing activities of general interest. The rules should lay down a methodology for determining the prices of public goods and the prices of goods of complementary activities in public institutions. They're going to have to define a public network. They will have to define the scope of the complementary activity, the so-called market activity, already in their regional copy. Then the conditions to be met by the operators of the activity of general interest, both human resources, spatial and other conditions. Then specify the basket of rights if you want, the type and extent of public goods and the conditions for provision and use, including for users, under what conditions we will be able to access. In particular, the rights and obligations of users of public goods will have to be laid down transparently in the regulations, which is not yet in place today. They will then have to clearly identify resources and ways of financing activities of general interest. Then the type and extent of assets to be provided to operators of activities of general interest. This is a standard whereby users can confidently believe that we will be treated with the best equipment and in the best conditions, that we will be educated in didactically equipped spaces and so on, and other elements. But at least these elements will have to be in the field rules. Article 131 clearly states that public institutions will be able to reshape: Article 131, first paragraph: the founder of a public institution may transform a public institution in accordance with this law when the conditions laid down in Article 7 of this Act are met in the sectoral laws. This is no later than three years after this law has been passed. We want to establish that there will be no chance of commercialisation, tycoonisation and privatisation in specific areas. Therefore, with regard to the determination of possible sources of funding, we do not deviate from the current arrangements, where we only specify them, while we make it clear that operators, whoever they are, will have to provide the funds necessary for the implementation of this activity with a contract, regardless of whether this public institution will have unlimited liability, with limited liability or concessionaire, within two months of the adoption of the financial plan. [[For example, the Health Insurance Office]] or budgets where they are financed from municipal or state budgets. Now, I apologize, the practice is often such that we confirm the government's financial plan, which some institution has drawn up at the end of the year when it was actually operating on the basis of lending. So they rented loans, and at the end of the year, they asked the state to pay them back because they were still working in the public interest. We have cases like this where we're disgusted. Although, once again, the Public Finance Act has already laid down today that the contract with the contractor must be concluded within a reasonable time frame, but we have many problems with practice. The question of the price of public goods. In a wide range of areas, public goods prices are set, many are not, many are financed by the service on the finger, and some public service is required to perform a service. Here we have made it clear that the prices of public goods are regulated, of course regulated by the founder in agreement with the financier, that prices must be designed equally, irrespective of the way and regardless of the funding sources and regardless of the legal status of the operator of the activity of general interest. Who will determine the methodology for price fixing – the sectoral rules. This law cannot do so because it involves so many different activities. This price will then be confirmed by the founder in agreement with the financier and then made public, as does the principle of transparency in the public sector. What will this price calculation have to contain? Only costs and here all costs necessary for the provision of public goods: labour costs, material costs, depreciation or return. This was now a major problem, so this law affords yield in this price. In the article where we provide this, we make it very clear that these operators can create our public institutions, including the return on funds invested, that this income must not exceed the amount of return on the long-term debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia on day 1. On the 9th of the current year. It will be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance. On day 30. 6. 2011 is 3.18%. What's it for? It is intended to provide quality services and to be able to restore equipment that is amortised, used, as well. It is not possible that equipment cannot be restored in the public sector because they are waiting for the founders of the genies, whether they will buy a more modern device or not, but we consumers of this public service are provided with less quality than the State promises us to provide us. This is what all public service providers in the European space have, this yield, which allows for basic and widespread reproduction for the restoration of funds, the items needed for the quality of public service delivery. Thus, at the end of this first chapter, the law clearly defines who the congregation or the state may authorize to carry out activities of general interest. It can do so by setting up a public institution, which is the same as now, by means of a creation act with all the conditions, etc., it can grant a concession to a private institution or other legal or natural person, just as it is now, but under what conditions. However, it may also co-finance activities of legal or natural persons in a particular part. Here are usually calls where all those who fulfil the conditions set out in this invitation to tender can run in order to carry out the activities of general interest and, of course, they are also monitored as to how they carry out this activity. That's the part you don't have anywhere in law today. And according to my personal assessment, it means a lot of important added value, a focus on policy makers. The second part is the status section. Let's set up a public office. The public institution is defined not as a legal person of private law, but as a legal person of public law who carries out one or more activities of general interest as its core activity. That's why we set it up. Not to carry out commercial, complementary, market activity. With standards, regulations, all assumptions will know exactly what personnel, material resources the individual contractor will be able to distribute public goods, health, education, etc. Only order has to be made in specific areas. And the public agency will now carry out this core or more of these activities in an unprofitable manner, with the benefit of the right to renew its equipment, and that is all. Where do you see the profitability of this arrangement, please, in the discussion below, who can explain it to me? We clearly define that a public institution carries out an activity in an unprofitable manner. And, of course, it must ensure that all users have access to these goods under the same conditions, according to a certain quality level that will be determined by standards and standards. There has been a lot of debate about whether we should even allow public institutions to still carry out this complementary market activity, which the law says today can, if it is related to a core activity, and some do much less. After a careful discussion with the social partners and with the operators, following a review of the analysis, where it is found on average that in 2009 there were 6% of the revenue generated from market activity on average by all institutions in the framework of all the revenues for the implementation of the activities. And in order to ensure the same position of public institutions in relation to the situation in the Member States of the European Union, under precisely defined regulated conditions we have allowed market activity in these ten Articles and below. We have decided to define two types of public institutions in this law. Like the Company Business Act, a limited liability company is governed by the company, and a limited liability company, etc., and for each of these provisions, the public sector or those social activities in the interest of a company which must be distributed to citizens without profit, cannot operate in the form of an economic company, etc., but in the form of a public law person under public law. These two public institutions — with limited liability and unlimited liability — are only different in relation to the founder, not in relation to profit or profit. The public institution, which will be more autonomous than independent of the founder, will be called a limited public institution. The founder will provide him with professional and business autonomy. What is business autonomy? We define it and also define professional autonomy. If we look at today's public institutions, we can find that they have professional and business autonomy today in universities, just as we are about to regulate this type of person of public law, and everyone else has only professional autonomy and limited business autonomy in their work. Why, what is business autonomy? It's just a question of who buys the equipment and who builds the premises for the contractor? Is that what the ministry does, or is it the congregation, or is it what the department does? Managing property means creating the conditions for carrying out this activity. You need space for that, and that's what business autonomy means. Primary schools, where principals will not be required to build a primary school and they must build a gym, will not have business autonomy because they do not need it because they do not need to look for contractors in the procurement process, etc. One will be a public institution with unlimited responsibility, where the founder of this business autonomy will keep it to himself, as it is today, will create conditions for this. [[..]] But these people will have human resources autonomy there, which is also precisely defined. What is human resources autonomy? Decisions on professional issues and on human resources policy – this is job systemisation and employment. This is not an exit from the pay system, this is what the principals are doing today, this is human resources autonomy. Not to hire a teacher at the Ministry, but to be selected by the school according to the procedure, this is staff autonomy and to determine by the number of children enrolled, how many teachers are required according to the standards and standards set out in the regulations. That means professional autonomy. The contributions of this civil society state that it is precisely on the basis of the professional autonomy offered today by both types of institutions that there is a great danger of coming out of the system of public servants and from the single pay system. Employment in public institutions – i.e. professional autonomy – is now fully ensured, in a way that establishes working relationships under the Labour Relations Act and not on the basis of the Civil Servants Act and in a way that does not involve the founder in the choice of candidates. This is it, and that is what we guarantee them to continue, both types of public institutions. The public limited liability office, when it also has business autonomy, will have a limited capacity to dispose of, including indemnity, and in this part is prevented in the next 10 articles from taking away any State or municipal property, except for the founder’s benefit, namely, the municipality and the state. I think that this is Article 33, which speaks of the possibility of dispossessing of our shares, we clearly state for whose benefit – only for the benefit of the founder. It's about bankruptcy. Someone was talking about bankruptcy today. For both types of public institutions there is the responsibility of the founder for the obligations. So, both guys are assured that the bankruptcy can't occur. And there can be no bankruptcy in these activities, nor can there be any debt towards the establishment of assets for the rental of credit. It's all blocked by this public office. So in this part, we have made this autonomy more limited by the availability, the hiring of credits than some institutions are doing today. This is limited substantially more than is regulated today. Therefore, since a limited public institution will have both types of autonomy, the authorities are different from the other public institution. It will have the Director or the Administration and the Supervisory Board with supervisory powers, as well as other bodies designated by the sectoral rules, such as the Expert Council. Whether the founder will exercise control – yes, it will, here we make it clear that he must have a majority in the supervisory world, namely, competent people who will be checked by KAS. There will also be at least a third of the employees in this supervisory council, which, of course, ensures an important part of people's co-management in the management of these companies. In the Supervisory Board, the representatives of the financier or users, as set out in the sectoral legislation, may also be. In this type of public service, the founder will be responsible for the obligations of a limited and subsidiary and only to the extent of the resources provided for the implementation of the core activity. The public office with unlimited responsibility will be similar to the current institution. Investment activity is reserved for the founder, he will provide the equipment himself, he will only be provided with the human resources autonomy he has today. That is why this public institution will have a council which will be the governing body and not the control. The founder will maintain direct control of the operation of such an institution and will also be in unlimited liability for the duties of the institution. You may have overlooked some important news. With the aim of rationalising the business, we also introduce public service communities where, in particular areas, the founders will be able to decide, in cooperation with the public institutions for their members, i.e. public institutions, joint matters in the field of legal, human rights, accounting and other general tasks, to carry out public contracts under this person of public law, if it is a legal person at all, only a contractual relationship with public institutions will be possible. We carefully regulate relations with users, we precisely define obligations, the public, transparency, response to the needs of users. In my opinion, the new programme arrangements of public institutions are also extremely important. The work programme and the financial plan should also be highlighted in this part. Today’s work programme is more important than not — from activity to activity — the financial plan is important and whether so much money has been spent. It is now necessary to set out clearly the criteria and criteria for the quality of the service entrusted to the individual operator in the work programme. It will also have to report on the implementation of the objectives set on the quality of service delivery, in each work programme and financial plan it will have to demonstrate separately a core and complementary activity in the event that it accidentally carries out part of the complementary activity. With regard to concessions, it is an important novelty, unlike the current regime, to clearly order when concessions can be awarded. This will apply to all areas. This chapter is not health, nor social protection, nor will anyone again be regulated in the field laws. They will be subject to a chapter on concessions in this law, that was intention. And we have arranged three things that are not regulated today, in the rest we have arranged the concession as warned by those who participate in the concession process as contractors today in best practices. The first amendment is to make it clear that the concession can only be granted to a legal or natural person provided that the public network cannot ensure the performance of the activity of general interest in such scope and quality or in such a way that it is accessible to all its users without hindrance. Therefore, the public network will only be complemented by concessionaires where the state or municipality is not, for objective reasons, more able to ensure that the activities are carried out in a prescribed manner. In doing so, we want to prevent concessions based on circumstances and interests which, with a view to, the objective, the necessary scope and the manner in which the public service is carried out, have no connection, and unfortunately, in the past, we have witnessed in an important part such a stupendous award of concessions. And if you look at the transitional provisions: if the law were passed, concessions would have to be granted under this law. If the decision is not yet issued, the procedures will have to be stopped and what will be the basis for the award of concessions: the public network until the public network. Very clearly defined. Where, therefore, in a particular area, there is a deficit, where people cannot access public goods and so on, the founder will also be able to look for this private initiative. The transitional provisions make it very clear: the public network is a condition for the further award of concessions. We, unlike the European legal order, had nowhere to be determined in the sectoral rules as to the maximum period of award of the concession. This is mandatory under the European legal order, and we have seen many already that efforts have been made to ensure that concessions are inherited almost already. Here we make it clear that there is a maximum period of 30 years, and we also travel to sectoral legislation where the nature of the activity of general interest and the risks and benefits of the concessionaire will have to be taken into account when setting the deadline. If a private person builds and equips a home for the elderly, the concession period will be longer, as he will invest a lot of private capital to carry out public service in the same way, at the same price, under the same supervision as a public institution. That's what this rule provides. Financial operations are also an important provision. Here we have arranged this in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance; so far it has been mandatory to apply to both types of public institutions of the Public Finance Act. However, in the 88th and other articles already on this site, we provide in this regulation that funds should be needed for the public administration, economically effective and, of course, legally, so that the surplus generated by the public institution can be used exclusively to carry out the basic activity. With regard to debt, restrictions are imposed, they can be limited only in the short term and investments provided that the assets necessary to carry out the basic activity are built, and so on, with the consent of all the authorities and the founders. According to accounting, it is clear that money created from basic activities and from market activities in accordance with the Law on Transparency of Financial Relations and the Separate Recording of Different Activities must be kept separately and must not be mixed. With regard to supervision, we define four types of supervision: legality, enforcement, quality of work, reporting. The report is equally regulated for the public institution, as well as for the concessionaire and what is most important in the transitional provisions: when the sectoral rules set out everything provided for in Article 7 of this Act, it will only be possible to create conditions for them to also determine in the same sectoral regulation whether a public institution with unlimited responsibilities will be established for primary schools, which is similar to the type of public institution we have today. The Ministry of Education says yes. In this case, investment activity and all that is now in the congregation will remain with the congregation. The Director will also be responsible for human resources policy, business and quality education. But this will be determined by the Education Act. That's not what this law requires. The Ministry of Education already knows how. Secondary school, which by half trains with practical training in cooperation with the economy of its student in order to provide decent service, repair vehicles, etc. These students are making products. These products make sense to sell. And in this part, of course, it's about market activity. And they will decide in the field of education whether it would be better to set up a public institution with limited responsibilities, where it will also work very closely with the economy. In other areas, in fact, ministers, when we have seriously coordinated this regulation with them, including the municipalities, I apologize, this paper which the Community of Slovene municipalities has given to them shows in fact that some of the provisions in this law are not known. [[...]] We had coordination with all of them, but maybe others came and now they're writing others. In short, I guarantee full responsibility, I hope that this presentation, I apologize, has been a long one, but such a law cannot be briefly presented because it has many institutions which, in my opinion, represent a significant improvement in the conditions for regional rules to ensure the welfare policy of the social state to fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor to prepare Mr Roberto Battelli – I see that he is not – Franco Juri or Mr Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	We have heard that marriage is very extensive, and many of us have read it. We'll have to understand him, too, we'll say. But the introduction itself is interesting, and the introduction needs to be carefully reconsidered and I think there is a problem in the starting points. Look, we've deviated from the standard structure of the institution. Founder, contractor, user. I can't imagine how we could invent another formula. She's gone. We can't. Where are the users now? We have placed users in the supervisory councils and how they will be represented there depends then again on the statute of the institution. They may be completely out of bounds, but the institutions are due to users. What makes them, as users do, not for the owners, not for the operators, especially for us users, we are all users. Even in companies such as public companies, users must have key control, I would say the key word for all things, but not to dissuade them, and now the owners will have the key word. It's a completely flawed concept, it's wrong at the starting point. We can go to the article, but there's a problem at the starting point. We cannot deviate from this three-partite model. Users must play their part and place in any form of modernisation. Put users on edge, this is unacceptable and wrong in principle, even if we are not looking at details. Public-private partnership, that sounds good too, how we're going to be partners. Unfortunately, in practice, this is occurring. It's hard to expose a control model to prevent it. Look what's possible now. Private capital, both domestic and foreign, will be able to have shares in public institutions. Fine, we'll have everything in the same office. Public capital should be allowed to invest in private institutions. Mixing public and private. Unfortunately, this usually leads to damage in practice, because it is a intersection of interests, of motives. Somewhere the motive is the best public service, the surplus, if created, by the classical definition of public institutions remains the institution, for example, also these so-called public companies or companies. It is intended to target investments, infrastructure of public institutions, or, finally, this would be the most important, a reduction in the price of public service. But it's not like the board is going to be thinking about how they're going to share the surplus. The introduction also states: public institutions will be non-profit. That sounds very nice. But the definition of non-profit – what colleague Juliana had already pointed out in the Health Act a year ago – was by no means possible for the proposer to provide a definition that those implementing could not be involved in these surpluses. In addition to getting paid from public funds, he will continue to do market activity in his working time and will pay his reward. If this is possible for me, I will also see that I will work as little as possible in the public sector to get as much as possible involved in the public sector, and I will earn as much as possible. Because it's not exactly separate, even though it says in the introduction that it's non-profit. It just depends on how we define it. What is this nonprofit? Systems that are complicated are not manageable. That's what it's all about. We already know how our systems work, which are supposed to be manageable. For example, a bank. The collars are falling out of the closet. Mr Klemenčič took the anti-corruption work seriously. The numbers go into enormous sums. The amount of loans received by the receiving entities on extraordinary terms. I don't think it's business, it's political, it's friendly, I don't know what kind of clientlists. Clientism is the problem of Slovenia. Looks like Mr Klemenčič will have a lot of work to do if they don't replace him first. He also took his work too seriously, as did Mr Soršak in the Competition Protection Agency. I miss him. There was only something going on back then. Before him, there was little fighting, and there was less going on behind him. These systems can't be controlled. This spillage of funds: private, public, how this will happen in practice, because I say, in more transparent, simpler systems, this does not work. How will this control work in this sui generis legally confused system, I really don't know. The private sector has its motive – profit and here the public-private urge to carry out I am pleased, Mr Gorenak has said well and I myself am not an adherent of some old socialist models, which are often evident to anyone, I have nothing against the private sector, but Mr Gorenak has said well, the private sector does, if it has its own resources. [[...]] For the private sector, which is exhausting the public sector, we are not for these relations. Indeed, it is difficult for me to imagine that this law will be able to be amended and corrected because it is fundamentally controversial, irresistible and insurmountable, despite the beautiful declarations in the introduction of the law. Finally, in all the laws we have adopted so far in the National Assembly, we see in the introduction the very beautiful goals, and the way is pressed, as in human negotiations, how and where. That's it. They'll say something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Mr. Franz Bogovich would be next. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I have to say that I listened carefully to the 45-50-minute minister and because I worked for 30 years in the institution, I listened to a wonderful restoration of the socialist system of public institutions. With the current law to regulate certain things, to reorganize, to create some new relations and, above all, to create, as the Minister says, better supervision and, of course, co-management of workers and not least, to earn their own income, as we used to call it. I'm very sorry, but I didn't find any guarantee in this that what happened to us would not happen to us when health care went almost into the franchises because of the concessions, the network had, the network has now, no one is without a network. To avoid anyone thinking that we started the alphabet with this law today, this law is merely an upgrade to all the laws that are so far in this area, there is no substantial invention here. At that time, we went to the privatisation of health care rather than to concessions and networks, and I tell you, at that time I participated in one of the congregations in this matter, not as the main, responsible one, but I cooperated and I tell you how quickly they suction on social resources, you cannot believe. You guard one door, they come to you through three other doors and it will happen here as well. This is a sector that has not been privatized where we have not allowed what has happened in the last 15, 18 or if you want to for 20 years, because it doesn't matter, in the economy, someone has already talked about it today – we have completely destroyed everything that has been built and done, almost completely. Somebody tell me where the guarantees are when we adopt this law, so this story won't happen again. Because when I listen and think so myself, it is from public funds that someone will create an activity that will be profitable, that will be able to serve, work, create some prosperity, and leave it to the congregation or to the state, that is, to live somewhere and to work. That is exactly what will happen because we have not replaced citizens, not all, some. We haven't changed people and we haven't changed minds to do certain things like that. Otherwise, we wouldn't have done it to the economy or anywhere else. I don't see why you shouldn't be in social activities after what they call. This is the only thing I can say, I am always a little joking, and I say: this is the rest of the socialist arrangement, where everything is a little bit old, and where all properties are still owned by the state, owned by the congregation, where it was not until last year that they were written into the cadastre of buildings of certain properties, such as cultural institutions, and not even into the land book, except to know what is from the country and what is from the congregation. We have many steps to take before we take this, many more steps. First of all, we need to know what is whose property, what kind of public institutions are actually operating. They are not demarcated, nor between the congregation and the country, except to be included in the book of the earth. Only a cadastral building was registered to my former office, which I did myself. Now one day I got a phone call if I know where the papers are. So that I don't speak out of my mind and I don't want to disrespect this law or the one who's ready, but I want to be very serious and sober about these things, be careful that we don't take another step into the void, into the unknown, because then it's always hard to go back. Go change the laws today, and you will see, but we can change the laws, but we will not return the factories and businesses that have been destroyed and are gone and will never be returned. And if this wasn't a good school, how to be careful, then I don't know what will teach us. But we're such people, God help us, because I'm not accusing anyone, we're people and people haven't changed, people are looking for material goods, and here are the other material goods that accumulate, which these good masters, what kind of legal status they are, but they stick together, and I don't think it's insulting to say what would be, what would be, what would be. [[...]] What now, do you think it's nothing now that we don't have a director there now and we don't have a control or a council office where there are three people or five or eight. Anyway, they're sitting three-partite. And in agreement, they appoint the Director, or give the consent of the Minister, and the institution chooses the most suitable candidate, adopt a work programme, deal with the final account, deal with the work report, monitor the work of the Director, sign an individual contract and so on and so forth. The property is known because, as the Minister had said, it was copied to the state or to the congregation. And from that moment forward, ownership was no longer a social property, but it was owned by someone, that is, the property of a congregation or the property of a country. And here in Article 7, I hope that I will not be too long, I apologize if I read this, but it says here: a general framework for standardising activities of general interest. This is the type and scope of activities of general interest, standards and standards as a basis for implementation, financing and so on, the methodology for pricing, the definition of a public network. We've got it all. Don't we have a public network?Oh, my God! Don't we have a public network?Oh, my God! Tell me what system works by, say, the Landscape Archive of Maribor or Ljubljana. He doesn't have a network?Oh, my Can you tell me?Oh, my God! You'll tell me when you get the word, probably, but so I ask, more rhetorical than I'd like to question you. The network is known because it works on the network, people are employed on the network, it's a standard for employment, it's a standard for storage, for everything else. Definitions and permitted scope of complementary activities in establishments, conditions to be met by operators and so on. And other elements. Then we come to Article 11, which, in the second paragraph, says that the institution can carry out, in addition to the core activity, to a limited extent in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the law or decree of the local self-government, also a gainful activity, hereinafter referred to as the complementary activity, as I said before, we have called it our own income and from this it is said that 6 % was obtained. My fear is that this income will be misused, that this income will go into the hands of those who are craftsmen and craftsmen and will, of course, carry out a profitable activity, use these resources and some other means and, as I said earlier, abandon that core of the institution to perform those functions that the state pays so much that it can live and go on. That's our fear. When I said this earlier, I linked it to a privatisation that we've done so savagely that no country in this world has ever seen anything like it. I can't see, I'm afraid that's going to happen here too, because because people haven't changed, they haven't changed, they're always the same, who survive on this part of the income that they can put in their private pockets. In my opinion, the law, which deals long and wide with these public institutions and compares them with other countries, is all right and right and, as I said before, would not underestimate or underestimate the one who did this and made an effort, because this is very much work and very complex and the debate is because it is being processed and discussed. But I'm gonna tell you from, I'm not gonna tell you that from my own experience, because I didn't do it myself, and I wasn't at the job where I could run into these things. I am afraid that in these public institutions we will experience what we have experienced in our companies in Slovenia. And that doesn't mean that I won't vote for this law, but it doesn't mean that I'm just going to say okay, another law in a series of laws that we've seen in public institutions. Five or six, he was the best, I think, from 1969, but then they were getting worse about culture, by the way, that no one would think I was saying anything in general. Secondly, at least one thing was spared in this public institution, that unfortunately we were not able to complete the local self-government in this country and that we did not reach the regions. Because if we came to the regions, we would have something more to discuss today. Unfortunately, we can't talk about this today because we don't have regions. But if we had regions, there are quite a few institutions that are pillars in these particular regions. And although this is never ending story, given that with local self-government we will probably not be finished for a long time, but unfortunately, as I say, this law will have to be completed when we will also have local self-government completed, because it has a significant impact on the region and in a different light the institution will be illuminated, as now that it is only functioning exclusively in the country and in the congregation where it has its seat. So, I described my fears. I didn't see the law as bad. I wouldn't have let that happen. In fact, I viewed him as a source of fear, where things might happen that I've said before, not to repeat. Are we going to have any extra security guards so this doesn't really happen, I don't know? I hope so, but let us leave the debate and the comments that may bring those solutions that I have a bad feeling about, not just me. Today, I have listened to debates, and there are such debates, so far so much and I hope that in the future we will talk about it and drink it in a way that will be useful.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much, I sincerely hope that there will be an opportunity on the committee to discuss the article under the article, where it will be easier to see that we have been looking for all possible solutions because of the fears that you are expressing here today. First of all, Mr. Magajna. No, tripartite is absolutely preserved in the world of the institution as a management body, in a public institution with unlimited liability is the composition of Article 73: it consists of representatives of the founders, employees of the institution, users' representatives and others, provided that this is the case for a sector regulation. The same in the Supervisory Board: representatives of the founder who must have a majority, employees, at least a third, as well as representatives of users and financiers, as provided for in the Sectoral Regulation. So it doesn't hold. The users of many of the provisions talk about, we have chapters, articles, relations with users, where we try this European public principle, transparency of public administration in the broadest sense to entrust public institutions to talk about it. [[...]] I would like to ask you, Mr Križman, one place to answer how to arrange, if we allow it, a market activity in public institutions. With great concern, 30 representative public sector unions, three of which have now expressed a separate opinion, or I have a declaration of compliance with the unions signed, dealt with this very issue. I will present you in one place because it is so difficult to read, these institutes, which we have estimated to be significantly better at regulating the issue and allowing market activities as is regulated today, and can lead to the advantage of commercialisation from the core mission that the public institution must carry out – this is the distribution of public goods. In Article 7, we first stated that this is essential when the sectoral rules are adopted, you will have to pay attention, it will be necessary to define in the sectoral regulation a possible complementary activity by type, whether it is health, education and so on and to determine the extent to which the complementary activity is allowed already in the sectoral regulation. It will then be necessary to establish a methodology for determining the price of this market activity, which we have clearly stated must be "non-dumping", but must include all costs of using public equipment, public buildings, which means that this will be the price that someone on the free market is designing, which must build the building itself, buy the equipment and so on. So that this part does not become public, this is prevented by the price of the complementary activity for which we determine that it must be marketed in order to have any of it in the public office. In the second paragraph of Article 11, we say that the institution can, not say that it must, depending on which field regulation may not be allowed at all, be able to carry out, in addition to basic activities, to a limited extent and in the manner and conditions laid down by the laws. Then, in article 15, in all paragraphs, we set limits, and in the second paragraph of Article 14, we first define what additional activity may be in this law. It is now stipulated in the regulation that the one linked to the core activity and all varieties are linked to the core activity, whether or not grazing there or not. A lot of people did other things. Now we say that it can carry out a complementary activity related to the core activity, and in explanation we also write that we imagine that the institution that carries out the core activity is also qualified for it. For example, the products of students in secondary school are closely linked to education for the production of e.g. the iron candlestick when the students learn and this product will then be sold. And another, which is even more important; that this activity can be the same as the core activity, but must be outside the scope of users of the core activity. This is extremely important, so that no one against payment can get what the institution has to offer, faster and otherwise. No, so here we have in mind outside users or outsiders who can be supplied by a clinical centre, but the price it will charge because for this purpose it uses a publicly purchased table, a public hospital will be marketable. The most important restrictions then are the implementation of complementary activities that are nowhere to be found today. They shall not affect the implementation of a core activity and shall not exceed the extent to be specified, not only in the regulation, but also in the annual work programme of that operator, both in the programming work and in the financial plan, as far as it foresees that it could be obtained from market activities because the price will be based on a uniform methodology. We give the Founder a mechanism to restrict and prohibit the implementation of this activity if it has any effect on quality, quality, accessibility, etc., essential activities. And the evaluation in the work programme, in the financial plan and also in the report is clearly stated that the institution will have to report on this. In short, control is much more divided. Two, both authorities shall be given a task, both by the Supervisory Board in Article 71 and by the Council of the Institute in Article 76, so that they are obliged to monitor and propose a restriction or ban on the exercise of market activities. And the essential provision, paragraph 89: where is this surplus. Once this price is regulated, marketed, as it is, and separately shown in the financial statement, where the public agency will already receive electricity, equipment, rent and more, there will be no surplus and when the employees who will do so will also be paid. There should be no big surplus from income, I don't know: foreigners who are coming to operate, it will be some kind of money fund, it will have to pay doctors, anesthesiologists, cleaners, everyone who participated in this process, and when this is very well separated, it will be clear what. However, what would remain means that the calculation of this price will probably not be the most appropriate, it will only be possible to implement and develop a core activity. This will be decided by the Supervisory Board. I would like to draw attention to a provision which is in law, at the request of the Court of Auditors, in the supervisory board of a limited-liability public institution, has a majority of the founder – whether the municipality or the state, meaning that they will be competent supervisors, of course with great responsibilities, if you go to look for supervisors, because they must inform the founders as soon as they find out the irregularity: the Ministry of Justice, the mayor, etc., will decide; and in the case of a public institution with unlimited responsibility, the founder. We also make it clear that this surplus can be calculated by the revenue that the financier or founder must provide for the functioning of this public institution in the coming year. In short, the visa regime that only one sentence allows a public institution to carry out this activity, which is linked to a core activity, and should, in principle, keep separate records under the Transparency Act, but we have a problem with this and that surpluses are used to carry out activities. Now, in a systemic sense, we have nothing else regulated. If you look at the table, you can see that public institutions, with the exception of individual types, hospitals, primary schools, primary health level, do not have much income from this activity. It's less than a few percent. In fact, they carry out their mission fully when they realize the distribution of public goods. With this arrangement in cooperation with all those who were equally concerned, we have tried to limit the issue of market activity. If the law continues to be discussed, we will carefully reconsider with you again if there is any other guardian, so that we have carefully approached this issue if we already allow market activity. The fundamental question was whether we allowed it at all. But to prevent a vocational school from selling its product, to prevent a hospital from operating on a foreign patient, and to put them in a privileged position to visa public institutions under public law in foreign countries. In this part, we have tried our best to improve the arrangements so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the Minister and to a couple of us who were still able to stay here. There is a need for a change in this area. It will, of course, be necessary in the form of dialogue, not monologue. Today, we are listening to the general presentation of this law, where the views of the parliamentary groups and some Members, who have managed to say something small, are barely half the time spent by the Minister of Explanation. I propose, Minister, that we listen very well to what we have in this general debate and that we explain and defend the views further when there is an absolute law to be supplemented in some matters. If this is how we imagine that only one side will speak and the other just listen, I fear that the law will not have wide support. I suggest we be very patient here. The current regime in this area is viable. In 1991, as I recall, this law as a temporary law, in fact, was adopted with great desire, I am talking about the Law on Institutions, with great desire that in a half a year, a new solution be drawn up that will transform social activity or social activities into another form. It's been 20 years since then. This is, in my opinion, one of the system laws in Slovenia, which has undergone at least one or two minor changes, but still lives and is still up to date, and we are still working under this law. And that is why I believe that changes are also needed in this area, because socio-economic relations have changed, because some other things have changed and the development has gone on. But the development went so far as to adopt sectoral laws, that each of the areas of our social upgrades would take their own cake, organize themselves in their own way, and that is why we have the same organisation as it is in this area. And each of us debaters, who speaks from one point of view or knowledge, I myself have been a director of a public sports institution for more than 20 years, talking about my experiences. And they're very different. Of course, I'm talking about a sport that I know relatively well. There is a much higher share of so-called non-disclosures or market activities than, of course, in some others. Because he's otherwise organized. But it is true that the sport has been repeatedly pushed aside, as it will be. And that's something that wasn't. I do not agree with my colleague Križman, who says that we have legislation in all areas, and I do not know what else. They're somewhere, not somewhere. But more than once, they're gone. However, there are certainly no price-setting standards everywhere, and some other standards are the advantages of this bill's proposal, which will resolve this in the future. We will have to get this in all areas because now these norms and standards have been set in the way they were. In fact, the question is whether it is possible to get it all together on a common denominator. Not at all, but it is possible to set some basic starting points, which this law also sets and I certainly support. This is to simplify the area of governance and governance in particular. To determine what a institution is, what is an unprofitable thing and how it is managed. To unify ourselves in asset management. There's been a lot of talk today about how we're gonna sell out now, and I don't know what else to do, but how to do it. But no one wonders what happened in the year, I think, when the Land Book Act was passed in 1995, which transferred social property and the right-of-use holder to the local community or to the municipality that became the owner. If we remember, then some institutions have done so, including societies and some who have had the land book 'holder of the right to use social property', they have become owners. That was when they became owners in a refined way in the short run. And they did it. They've done it in a perfectly legitimate way, and they've acquired social property. Now this social property has become something else, a municipal property, a state property, and many things do not really know how much it is. Many of these things have not yet been arranged in land books. I say that the institutions that would be responsible for what they manage would have been dealt with much earlier in land books, in their records and elsewhere in the structure of this property and all these things, so that this would be sufficiently transparent and good enough. Then it's a matter of financing the activity. Yes, it is necessary to agree on what is the public interest, what is the public programme, what is a complementary activity, how and by what standards and criteria. There are some things we have resolved in the Public Finance Act, some things we have in some sectoral laws, but some fundamental objective for all these public services, and unfortunately there is not. Furthermore, as has already been said, the extent to which the normalisation of activities should be the norm, what things should be like, is probably not all the more important in all activities, but is the grave extent of normalisation that needs to be done. I think that the law needs to define well what we mean by non-profit, non-profit activity, as we call it, non-market activity. If you look at two institutions and two balance sheets with the same activity and then you go to look at the criteria of what one put into non-profit or non-market activity and what the other put into the market activity, you will see great differences. Why? Because it's not defined. Did the founders not say what it is, which, of course, according to the current legislation, we should do, and this is left to the institution itself, which has put it out in the way it is. Part of the cost was passed on to non-market activity, and there he tried to work a loss, and he found that he couldn't make a loss, so he transferred a little to it, and it was just a matter of games of accounting. Revenues are important and the costs arising from this segment are important. And a lot of the time it's happening in institutions now that they're doing a profitable activity actually below the price of a non-profit that's financed from public finances. And this is an anomaly that needs to be eliminated, anyway, it needs to be eliminated. That is why in the law – not then answer me how it is already written, but in the debate we will have in the second reading, we will examine and determine whether it really makes sense and in what way, and whether it is good enough for all the guards to be in this law, not only, but also, as a result, in some other laws that condition or determine the financing of an activity in order to be normative. Then, with regard to the definition of what this return should be and what it should be like to make a profit out of a gainful activity. The interest of private capital is also very important to me. Yes, it can be involved, but I do not see the real point when we say that the institutional form of organising an activity can also be a private institution that will invest in it and will do non-profit activities. Today we have some institutions that are private, not one of them is non-profit, because the definition of money and capital to make a return must, and if I have enough money to invest them, I want to have a dividend, because otherwise I will invest money in a bank for 3% or securities where I have more risk, I can lose more or get more. That's why it's a matter of thought. It is necessary to determine whether private public institutions should be involved in the possibility of investing in a public institution as such. But this is a dilemma that needs to be addressed in some professional debate, not today, to clarify and determine what and how this should be included. Article 18 will also have to be corrected from this point of view and see whether it is or not. Then questions of privatisation arise and how this will now be privatised and private capital will come in. Something has already been privatized in this area, even in the present law, which we find to be "as" impossible. Well, it was. And where the owner wants to privatize this activity, he will privatize it either under this law or under a new law or in a different way, because he will find other forms because he will find there is a possible one good market niche. And in this area, I think in all areas we already have some things that are. So, of course, there is no concern, at least for me, not that the law promotes it itself or any other way. What happened, what Part of the activity will never be privatised, because after the defolk it does not generate profits and there is no interest in creating this profit. [[...]] And from this point of view, I think that this chapter needs some special debate, including some professional circles, and it is necessary to determine how and in what way. Maybe for the end, I'll support the law myself in the first reading. I expect, however, that we will have another broader debate, a general debate on this law and that we will not only participate in the other working bodies of the National Assembly, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, but also in other working bodies of the National Assembly, in order to prepare a sufficiently good law. Indeed, this area has been changing for several years, something that some governments have tried to resolve, unfortunately failing, whether their mandate had expired before or whatever. In short, we now have more to do with the end of the mandate, any early or regular, but it is a wish, and indeed at least from my point of view: there are changes in this area, there are different socio-economic relations, and this area must also be made substantially more marketable than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	You're giving up. And then Mrs. Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister and other Members. Let me first enlighten the current law with some historical facts. In 2003, the European Commission issued a Green Paper on services of general interest under which countries should regulate activities of a non-economic nature which are of general interest, such as health, education, social security and others. States may arrange them in such a way that they are not subject to regulation by the European Community. They do not concern rules on the internal market, competition and state aid. The law that we are considering today does not regulate activities of general interest in the way envisaged by that European Commission document, but opens up the market and competition, with the applicant referring to Article 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community, which allows undertakings to compensate the State for the public services granted to undertakings for the provision of public services. In the 1990s, in some developed countries in the field of higher education, and in the field of health and culture, tendencies have arisen after the transfer of competence to the operator of the activity and the country is expected to withdraw into the strategic direction of the operator's activities. Companies operating under the control of the State were established. Such an approach was adopted under the name "new public management", at the time of the predominance of the neoliberal political doctrine on the organisation of the public sector. This doctrine has not produced the promised results, this is an increase in the efficiency of the public sector and has therefore become a subject of severe international criticism and has been abandoned 20 years ago. Although the above facts are also recognised by the law-maker, they are contained in the text of this law before us, the law has nevertheless proposed the regulation of the public sector in the way it was regulated during the predominance of the neoliberal political doctrine and is internationally criticised. Let us now take a look at some of the statements that were made today by the Minister and which are also included in the interview, in the newspaper Delo, in yesterday's Del. So it is not true that only a few individuals oppose the law. The law is critical or opposed by a number of other Members who speak on behalf of about 800,000 citizens, if we do not even take into account the Community of Slovene municipalities, where the mayors represent the interests of the people of their municipality. Among other things, they warn that the law also opens the door to the worst form of privatisation. This is the disappearance of public buildings and equipment in private to introduce the commercialisation of public institutions, that there is no separate public from private, which the population has been demanding for many years. Members are reminded of the harmful consequences of the law. Members, who have read the law in detail, see as civil society that the law allows for privatisation, commercialisation and the disappearance of state and municipal property in private hands. We note that it is not possible to amend the law with amendments, since otherwise all articles of law and matter should be regulated in such a way as to safeguard public interest. There are calls for Members to reject the law on Wednesday because it is not suitable for further consideration. Thus, the Community of Slovene municipalities opposes the law and, among other things, warns that the ownership of the last remnants of the property of municipalities and states is unacceptable because it would have a series of negative effects. The congregation of Domžale does not support the law either. It's an inadequacy law that imposes duties on the municipalities, and the institution that should be the founder's service only gets rights, to me. The Union of State Authorities of Slovenia, Glossa, the Union of Culture and Nature of Slovenia, the Trade Fire Union of Slovenia, the Health and Social Welfare Union and the Union of the Ministry of Defence of the Law also oppose commercialisation, privatisation and decommissioning of public institutions and the social state, which the law allows. The MPs are urging the unions to reject the law. The College of Movement for the Conservation and Improvement of Public Health, which represents more than 74,000 members, calls on Members, for the same and similar reasons, to reject the contested law. The ZAUS Civil Health Supervisory Association wrote: "We propose to the Members of the National Assembly that they reject in the general debate the proposed Act on the implementation of activities of general interest, as this means a step back from the regulation so far. It lowers the standard of the population and allows the remaining property created by generations to disappear." "Did no one learn anything from the privatisation of the economy," they ask. The representative of the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia, on behalf of 450 thousand pensioners, wrote, inter alia, that we should reject the law if we do not get the necessary explanations today on the main reasons justifying the need for this law. The Union of Workers with Disabilities of Slovenia requires, on behalf of more than four-and-six thousand members, the withdrawal of the law and states that it should not be subject to the non-critical OECD, which requires the use of legal forms of the private sector and the award of concessions to private individuals for the provision of non-economic public services. For reasons of privatisation and commercialisation and the possibility of owning the public sector, Members also call on the Independent Unions of Slovenia to reject the law. The Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia also opposes the law, they also say: "We call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to reject the proposal of the ZIPSP." At the same time, with regard to the statements made in public on the degree of harmonisation of the proposal in the Economic and Social Council, they wrote this: A declaration on the degree of consistency of the AIDS proposal submitted to this proposal does not constitute a harmonisation of the bill with all trade unions as it would be possible to understand from the law the accompanying material. That is to say, the fact that five trade unions that are members of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia are Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 14. 6. 2011 forwarded a letter clearly showing that they were opposed to the ZidSP proposal. In addition to the multitude of undefined provisions and so-called restrictions, which are such that they do not limit anything, the law has many other weaknesses. Nor is it true, Madam Minister, that the municipalities and the state will not have to transfer public property to institutions. The law lays down the conditions and manner in which the transfer of property from the country and the municipality to institutions is carried out in a law or municipal act. The municipality and the State, as the founder of a public institution, are obliged to transfer assets to public institutions, as said in Article 20, which have less than 50 % of public funding. All other public institutions may fall under this regime, as this provision may also apply in other cases, as we read in Article 12(2). Instead of the boards of institutions where we today have a three-party decision-making of users, founders and employees, these new organisations form the management and supervision of companies: the Director or the Administration and the Supervisory Board. Users and employees thus lose their role in managing the organisation. Instead of strengthening the impact of users, as recommended in the world, the current role of users is lost. These institutions become self-employed, are financially independent, independent in the management of property and personnel autonomy, this is Article 13. The founder agrees with the asset management plan and the debt plan; otherwise, the institution has the property, as referred to in Article 20, second paragraph. Nor is it true, the Minister's statement that the law does not give rise to the commercialisation of public institutions. The law now changes the legal principles of non-profit public institutions whose profits are to be spent solely for the purpose of carrying out activities into gainful organisations, by allowing the surplus from gainful activities to be spent on salaries and rewards of administrations and supervisory councils and other payments involved in the organisation of activities, which, of course, increases the motivation of institutions to develop profitable activities in public institutions, as shown by practice wherever it is practised, necessarily to the detriment of public interest activities, so says Article 89. These abuses are already taking place today, where, in the same organisation, market activity and public interest activities are largely mixed, for example, in Lekarna Ljubljana, where even pharmacists have warned Members that they are forced to sell drugs for greater profits to the detriment of human health. Nor does it state that the law does not bring about the privatisation and tycoonisation of public institutions, as stated by the Minister. In addition to privatisation in the form of concessions, since concessions are also a transfer of activities to a private sector and fall under privatisation, the law provides that private capital, both domestic and foreign concessionaires, may have shares in public institutions under this law, even those in which the responsibility of a municipality or a state other than autonomous establishments is unlimited. However, public institutions may invest in the co-ownership of a private institution. This is referred to in Article 18, paragraphs 3 and 5. This is a harmful mix between public and private ownership, which usually leads to a reduction in the public share, a damage to public funds, thus tacuniation or the possibility of asset-equipment of public institutions by private authorities and thus the possibility of damaging public interest. But everything is covered in law, so no one would be responsible for such damage. Consider the case of Dars, where compensation for public funds was made, and the University of Primorsk, where all complaints against the rector who threatened the property of the university were rejected, were to be made by law. Public institutions can also acquire private capital investments under this law, which is undoubtedly harmful, as confirmed by the Minister for Development of Gaspari himself in the last interview, where you were also present, Madam Minister, where he mentioned that it was harmful because the NLB case could have happened. This is permitted under Article 24, paragraph 3. While assets are transferred from municipalities and countries to public institutions, the municipalities and the state should be responsible for health, education and other non-economic activities of general interest and become a bottomless sack for the exhaustion of financial institutions and other public institutions. As founders, however, they must be provided with assets, funds and public funding under Article 20, and they shall be left to represent the institution before a court against the Director, the Administration and the Supervisory Board, even under Article 20, they shall also be obliged to pay late interest to the institution if they do not pay to the institution a timely establishment under Article 37, the municipality and the State shall be excluded from the establishment if they do not pay the institution’s share, then another founder, Article 38, may enter. By way of an action, the court or state may request an exemption from the institution if they are prevented from exercising their rights under law. I think it's perverse. Article 40, paragraph 2. With the assets invested, the founder shall be responsible for the work of the public institution to which he has transferred the assets, Article 42(3), again, the way in which public property may be lost and no one is responsible. From yesterday's interview with the Minister, it is important to read that the biggest interest is the creation of financial autonomous institutions in pharmacies, hospitals, pension homes, student homes and vocational schools, where profits are the highest in public institutions. If I think about the terrible profits of Pharmacy Ljubljana, I can see why and where the pressures under such a law come from. Privatisation of activities, concessions in the law also do not have the necessary limitations. Practically life concessions are available, although the population has been opposed for many years. The population also opposes the mixing of public and private, so-called sitting in two chairs, which is work in a public institution, and in the afternoon in its or foreign private practice or parts and other organisations. Such a way enables the misuse of public funds by users and time in the public service to increase private afternoon earnings in their own companies. Nothing is resolved about the rentals, where cases are happening to us daily, similar to the rental of a building for the NPU. Hence, the law does not solve any problem, but it does create a multitude of new ones. It is a matter of privatisation and commercialisation of non-economic public services, which is carried out without the prior agreement of the population and of the Economic and Social Council, which clearly shows the multitude of messages we received in the National Assembly. It is therefore a law that would allow for the unpunished transfer of public funds and property into private hands. However, there is obviously a great deal of private interest in this law. It is clear to the representatives of around 800,000 citizens that the adoption of this law would have serious consequences for the social and health security of the population. That is why I ask you, fellow Members, to follow the public interest – what is good for citizens – and to vote against the proposal of the Law on the implementation of activities of general interest on Wednesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mrs. Juliana. This is not the law of Minister Krebsova, this law has been unanimously supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which consists of the majority of ministers and ministers, members of the SD Party, of which you are also a member, and I ask you kindly to speak with your colleagues. All you've been doing now is deceiving the Slovenian public. That's the first time. Just a few cases where, of course, you read the text that moved me to preserve and improve public health. Article 20: I'll tell you on one occasion that this is a fraud, I won't waste any more time. The issue of capital investments is not regulated in the Offices Act today, the current Public Finance Act prohibits capital investments. Nevertheless, there has been a transfer within the pharmacy, under the jurisdiction of the local community or the congregation. We have already made it clear in this law that the public institution must not remunerate capital investments. We say the exception that exists today, due to the merger of research institutes and the economy, is the only such case that society supports because we want to bring together more added value and better working conditions in companies when it comes to activities defined in development documents in the field of the implementation of activities of general importance, in which case this will be legislation and a development document, otherwise it will not be possible to do so. And the conditions laid down by the law governing public finances are met. The new Public Finance Act is intended to regulate this combination, and the existing Public Finance Act prevents capital investments. Therefore, they must not be present at this moment in view of the provision of the existing Public Finance Act. It's over. And this law allows, but because of some cases, where private and public, where we encourage it, this is in the area of strengthening the skills of research and economic integration companies, but this is still, even if the law is adopted until it softens and specifies the conditions, it will not. So you can't take it from the context. And all these statements, for example, the municipalities and the state must transfer assets to a public institution, Article 20, which have a less than 50 % share of public funding. It's a mess! We only tell the rules, of course we imagine that there will be no limited liability public institution, where there will be less than 50 per cent of funding from the state budget, that is something else. It's not a health department, it's a public cash register, we have multiple types of public cash registers. In the context of the public debate, this movement did not come forward, nor did you come to the presentation of this law, which I organised in the framework of the parliamentary group. Come on, unions. Four of you listed, 30 of them negotiated, I coordinated with 30 representative unions, the declaration of consistency was signed, four of them with Mr. Černjavic at the head did not participate and agreed, this is part of the 22 representative unions he led at the time, I think that there was a change of leadership, Mr Possei was the successor to compensation. And we had coordination, six days from eight in the morning to nine in the evening, article by article. We have taken note of a lot of comments. And on the basis of this declaration of degree of coordination, we went to a press conference, a non-governmental sector, representative unions, therefore, since 22 4 did not agree, but were voted out, because the major health unions, the social unions concerned, see an important advantage in Article 7 and in the transitional provisions of this Act. When health and culture finally get standards and standards and more. And there won't be any changes until they're gone. This is an important advantage for them. And prevention of commercialisation, tayconisation and privatisation. Otherwise, there would be no such declaration of consistency. You refer to the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia and consider them among them. I apologize, the Union says that according to the last few weeks, when it comes to privatisation, they ask, we have coordinated with them and the law has been acceptable to them. [[…]] They say that, however, the proposaler should make an effort and explain the main reasons before the Members, otherwise they will also have a problem that they had previously agreed on. I apologize, Mr Čepič rightly addressed my one-hour opening statement, but I have carefully examined the last day of the upcoming comments and the Association of Retired Slovenians has said, explain to Members who are receiving texts on the table talking about privatisation, because we will also have a problem and we will not be able to agree with this law. And I'm more than sworn in before this well-respected assembly about the fact that there is absolutely no obstacle to privatisation with nine articles, but I won't, and I can, because I have them written here. Article 33 prohibits any establishment in a public institution from being separated only from the State or municipality. Not the private! The removal of a share shall not be different from that of a legal person of public law, that is, a municipality or a country which is also the sole founder of a person of public law. A person of public law means that he is not only unprofitable, because we regulate him by this law and must also be regulated by sectoral rules. It also means that it operates under the public law regime, that it is obliged to comply with the Public Finance Act, that it is obliged to comply with the restrictions imposed on the possession of property by the Real Estate Act of the State and local self-government communities. Next, the issue of asset management. When the founder of a public institution with limited liability provides with an act of establishment to tell how much real property, these are not real estates, these are equipment, these are expensive devices in a number of activities, we have made it clear that the conduct, which means selling, buying, selling, buying, trading, divesting free of charge, will not be possible by the director of the institution, not only by the approval of the supervisory board or the board of the institution, but such a plan will be approved by the founder of the sale, purchase, construction and construction. That's what the unions demanded, and that's what the marriage requires, so Dr. Pirnatt says is too little. Of course, this autonomy is very debilitating with such restrictions because the founder will have to make any investment. Not only can the property for which we fear not be privatised, nor should the public institution want to be indebted, can it be subject to liability insurance under the explicit provision of the law, i.e. for loans. Where is it today if you know any practice? This law forbids it. So the Founder's consent. 25. Article – read how exactly we regulate behavior, which is exchange, construction, seizure. All legal transactions that would otherwise have been concluded are null and void under Article 25 of this Act, the Public Finance Act, the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities Act. We also impose sanctions. In short, when we went all the way with those with whom we had seriously coordinated this regulation through, at the press conference that we also have, Mrs Juliana, representatives of both public sector unions, of the non-governmental sector, found that proper coordination had taken place, that we had taken a lot of attention, and that this was a law that would lead to an improvement, a more transparent public sector operation. You are citing, of course, I have answers to all the comments made by all the respondents, and in an important part you have helped someone because you have read today the comments made by one of the civil society, the same comments made by the three unions, followed in short by each other. And last but not least, this law has been dealt with by the Commissions of the Council of State, by all the Commissions. A society of disabled people who also protest. He says they want them to be precisely, following these conclusions adopted by the Commission, and we have acted in accordance with these conclusions. The State Council said, "Consist with the unions and comply with the Economic and Social Council." What I did, I aligned myself with the unions, the Economic and Social Council, the law was dealt with, decision 12. 4. 2011, the position of the Economic and Social Council on the proposal of the law: it was discussed and supported by the Employers' side, it is not opposing, but then we went to coordinate, I do, but it is supported by a declaration of harmonisation. More in social dialogue, which was not a monologue, we have taken much into account, so the law is also better, so the profession is too short, but still a good basis for public sector reforms. So this non-trust you are expressing, Mrs Juliana, is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and your President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	Ma'am mag. Bizarro's, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Madam Minister was very upset, but I read the articles of the law, read the text of the law, and read the texts sent by those who had comments. In short, not a single statement I said, but you didn't throw it away. So, I don't know why so much excitement when it comes to your texts is about your text of the law. And when I have the opportunity, I would also read what the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia wrote: After further examinations of the bill, we do not believe that the above claims on security guards to preserve the property of public institutions do not sufficiently ensure that the implementation of the law in practice does not lead to the realization of the previously highlighted fear of privatising property in public institutions into private hands. We therefore propose that the drafter of the law, before considering the draft law at first reading at the National Assembly, give a thorough explanation of the main reasons justifying the need for a new law. They are obviously not convinced that this law is necessary at all and therefore they say: "If the civil public does not receive the necessary clarifications on the main reasons justifying the need for a new law, we propose that the National Assembly should decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration." That's what they wrote, so please don't get upset with me. At the same time, when it comes to unions, Madam Minister, it is none of my business how you negotiated, but how you spoke to the unions, I just read what the unions wrote. Speaking of which, let me say one more statement that doesn't. In fact, you said a little earlier: a public institution with unlimited liability will be the same as today, but see Article 18, paragraph 3, which states that the co-founder of a public institution with unlimited liability may also be a private legal person who is a holder of a public authority if the law so provides. Article 18, third paragraph, Madam Minister. They just can't hold on to it. So don't get upset if I read you the articles of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Then let Vito Rozje be prepared. He's not here. Mr. Willy Trophynik. Mr. Anton Kolarich. He's not here either. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues. Those of you who are here today because I think you are here, because you are aware that futurologists have branded the 21st century as a century of public interest and the protection of this public interest and this law, let's say that it also partially protects the public interest. This is what you say, colleagues and colleagues, you are quite insistent that this public interest is one way of trying to protect. There was a lot of debate, fear and courage and a lot of courage and fear, but for me, given that for twenty years I was the director of the public institution in the field of culture, this is actually the last hour, as they say, the last hour beats, because 20 years of the implementation and implementation of the Law on Plants – it has already somehow become defiled, dusty, useless, given that things have moved on, are far more complicated, far more complex and require some new dictions, new explanations and new definitions. Because I view this aspect as the exercise of public interest on behalf of the public, because of course the public interest is exercised for public users, for users, I may have little bother in this law, how and how the public has the potential to influence the activity, on the type of activity to be carried out in this status form. I may not see, for subjective reasons, that this possibility is large enough for the public, but we will still see how and how it will be reproduced. But considering how and how the assets have been dealt with so far, my colleague Chapič said. I can say that despite all that we are talking about tycunization, privatisation, that there has been relatively great care in the field of public institutions, and if we look at all the other countries in transition, Slovenia has kept these public institutions quite well, I would say, intact, and has taken care of them as closely as possible given that they have not been introduced safeguards to protect this property. How and how to protect this property, we protected it with the Local Self-Government Act of 1994, when we adopted conclusions within the local communities and within the conclusions exactly taxively listed all the properties that the local community had in possession at that time, with the executioners, with all possible surfaces, records and so on. But this does not mean that the practice did not tell and bring its own, and I think that this law has, with some more detailed explanations, prevented those deviant moments and situations that have been exploited in one way in these twenty years – either damage to property, public property, local property by saying to any public institution that many and so many squares have been taken away and so on. However, the public network is defined somewhere because we have a very large number of activities in general activities. This public network is defined in pharmacy activities, it is defined in primary schools and so on, but it is not defined everywhere, nor are the grey foxes defined, and therefore I think it is important to define this in one way more and say because it is impossible to allow in Slovenia to have a library in Bovec, I do not know because I am from librarian activities, a beautiful library, but it should be fine, 600 square meters, that at the same time one area with far more inhabitants does not have a sufficiently developed library or so much less squares, that is what the standards and norms must be for Slovenia, for the public domain is uniform and that there are no such large differences, including what Cappič said about maintenance. It cannot be maintained on a regular basis only in certain parts of Slovenia, facilities which are necessary or not necessary for maintenance, while at the same time allowing certain objects to fall completely needlessly despite the fact that the funds are, or that these standards are, in fact, further defined and taken into account and in one way also realized. This is very important because there are deviations, because then simply in Styria there are one wonderful spaces in which we have marble and do not know what we have together, in Notranjska Valley, and in the L.A. Valley there is simple concrete or that I do not speak in half-heated spaces, so these standards in these public institutions must be relatively uniform and also in all ways achieve that things, types and scope of general importance are publicly accessible relatively universal, there will always be differences, but if they are financed from public funds, these differences must be reduced or the trend of reducing these differences, because at present the same time because of the various community figures, someone also says the sheriffs, are too large and too much to be allowed to do so. The impact of the public is different, somewhat dependent on personal initiative. This article does not know if it will resolve this, but let us go to Article 20, which is very important to me, what is the duty of the founder. As we know that the duties of the founder have been interpreted differently by the various mayors and the councils of the municipality and should not come to this anymore, because if the duty of the founder is as set out in Article 20, it must be exercised and also monitored and controlled in all parts of Slovenia, in all local communities in a single way, but not that we simply have such differences that we cannot believe that it is one country. So that one more thing will have to be defined, and since the minute is so stingy, I'll let my colleague Kolaric say something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	Mr. Anton Kolarich, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I've had a chance to say a lot in the introduction, but if you don't mind, I'll tell you in my own name that I don't think there's any intention of this law wanting to privatize these public services. The law contains clear definitions of their non-profit nature and this is essential to me. I am also pleased that this law clearly defines complementary activities in a number of articles, and I hope that these articles can be more refined, but in particular I think that certain articles on supervision in these public institutions should be finalized and I think that control is never too much. Because everyone's talking about their experiences, and I'm going to say that I've been mostly a member of the worlds or the president of the worlds for a few years, and I've been thinking about all the areas, from health, education, culture, and probably somewhere else. So I can say that I speak from experience that this law does not speak of privatisation, but after 20 years it tries to correct the situation and modernise the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	Madam Secretary, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	I would only thank the discussers for their patience. Mr Čepič, once again, I do not normally do this at the plenary session, but the organisations we have coordinated with have called for Members who receive words on privatisation, takunization to try as we have done at this plenary session and to explain that it is not the intention of this law and to ensure once again that the aim of the proposer was to prevent or give such legal basis for sectoral reforms, so that we will be satisfied with them both by users, founders and contractors who today can say that their initiative is also at stake in some part. I propose that, at first reading, you confirm the law as a suitable basis for further consideration and thus make it possible to improve also in areas where this law in itself means nothing. It is only the foundation, the guide for sectoral policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 22 June, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is, firstly, a proposal for a law supplementing the law on preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members, with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. With regard to this bill, the group of 11 Members with their first signed magi is a group of 11 Members. Joyful Žerjav demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill to Mr Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have recently tried, with some legal proposals and amendments to the proposed laws, to eliminate the individual anomalies that have come to the surface during this financial and economic crisis. We would also like to eliminate one of the anomalies in the proposal for a law on supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. In the past months, we have also witnessed the discovery in Slovenia of many frightening cases of suspicious business, particularly companies already in insolvency proceedings or such proceedings against them. Interestingly, many suspicious transactions were carried out through banks or companies established in so-called tax havens. Tax havens, which are often also subject to the term offshore area, are countries or only areas within countries that define a low or zero tax rate in their legislation and other benefits for foreign companies or non-residents, in particular ensuring bank secrecy of the account owner or his anonymity. In 2000, the IMF launched an evaluation of 44 countries, which it classified as offshore financial centres on the basis of those criteria, as it identified certain weaknesses in the supervision of the banking, insurance and securities sector. The more interesting countries or areas identified by the IMF as offshore areas or tax havens are Andorra, the British Virgin Islands, Cyprus, Gibraltar, Man, Liechtenstein, Monaco, and the Netherlands Antilles. In recent years, two tax oasis in Europe have been exposed, namely Liechtenstein and Cyprus, and many have been mentioned by the Netherlands, which is not in itself a tax oasis, but some of its territories are part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and have, I will say, a status. For example, why is Liechtenstein such an interesting location for money laundering? It is possible to establish a foundation there within a few days with the help of one of the 300 companies for fiduciary transactions. Everything necessary for its establishment is done by this company, the name of the money holder disappears as soon as the money is paid. Then this company for fiduciary transactions for the foundation opens an account, the public registers only mention its name, and only she knows who the real owner of the foundation is. It is then possible to provide the Foundation with indicative fees for advisory services, payment for transactions that have never been carried out and so on. Businesses with tax havens are not limited to companies but are also used by wealthy individuals who want to optimise tax operations, which in other words may mean avoidance of taxes. It should be clarified that any transaction in the tax haven does not necessarily mean, of course, a crime of money laundering. The question is, however, whether such behaviour is socially acceptable, as it must be understood that tax collection is not a one-way process, but that these taxes are passed on to public infrastructure or public services that are available to all of us citizens. By means of the proposed law, we would like to define the public of transaction data between the Republic of Slovenia and the countries or areas designated as offshore areas on the basis of the recommendations of the IMF and the OECD. The objective is to provide that the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is obliged to publish information and certain information on such a transaction on its websites. We propose to accept the proposed amendments and additions as an appropriate basis for further consideration and to complete the matter further if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr. Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to briefly define the Government's attitude towards this law during this time available to me. Of course, the law deals with the burning area of non-transparent business. In this context, it has a noble purpose, but even a number of marriages, as I would say, do not support the scruples that govern such a law in this way, as it is presented. To try to read the entire text to you: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is today discussing the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which was submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Radovan Žerjav. According to the Group of Members, it is in the interest of the public, business operators, creditors, workers and public administration to know which Slovenian companies and individuals and to what extent they operate with entities established in tax havens. By means of the proposed law, they want to reach the public information on transactions that take place between our country and the countries or areas designated as offshore areas. This objective would be achieved through new provisions, namely that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide information and certain information on such a transaction on its websites after the debtors have communicated it to the Office. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is taking and supporting all initiatives that aim at greater transparency in the business of entities and its related effectiveness in preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism in Slovenia. However, the initiatives of the Group of Members of the National Assembly in the form proposed do not support and have a number of concerns regarding the bill. As can be seen from the explanation of the purpose of the bill, the basic aim of the law is to achieve public disclosure, to which Slovenian companies and individuals and to what extent they operate with entities based in offshore centres and in tax havens. The data on these companies are intended to be published on their website by the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. In accordance with the proposal for a law, the Office would obtain this information by supplementing Article 38(1) of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, by which the debtors should report to the Office information on each transaction referred to in Article 22(2) of the existing law. This would mean that the obligors should report to the Office information on each transaction of their customers with entities from countries where appropriate measures are not in place to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing or are not sufficiently implemented, since the second paragraph of this Article is addressed to those countries. The proposed amendment to Article 38 of the Law would not cover a transaction with entities from countries in offshore areas and countries with weak tax or tax oasis legislation, which was the purpose of the proposed law. In order to communicate transactions with countries with offshore areas and tax havens to the Office, it would therefore be necessary to define otherwise the addition of Article 38 of the Law. With regard to the public publication of business entities operating with these countries, the question arises whether the public publication of this business entity would not put itself in an unequal position or whether the public disclosure measure is also proportionate in terms of the protection of personal data to the objective also pursued by the proposal for a law, namely the prevention of money laundering and tax evasion and the impact on the business decisions of other business entities. In addition, individual countries are re-listed or deleted, which should be taken into account in the proposal for a law. The deadlines or times of publication should also be set. Given that the basic objective of the bill is to increase transparency of financial flows or public awareness of the transactions referred to above, and that the public publication itself would not contribute to more effective prevention or detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the text of the bill proposed by the Group of Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that if we are to achieve greater efficiency in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, including with possible additional obligations to report data to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, to monitor more effectively the commitments made to implement the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and to prepare a comprehensive and deliberate solution for the close cooperation of the supervisory authorities in the context of the already envisaged amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism prepared by the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the adoption of which is planned this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members, Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	Your Honor! We are always more faced with data that convinces us that there have been some successful companies in Slovenia, which have moved their financial resources to Liechtenstein and Cyprus, and the Netherlands is also mentioned. It is also interesting that certain suspicious business activities of companies have been disclosed and that companies have brought businesses to bankruptcy on account of lack of transparency and irresponsible management, that this has benefited certain management authorities and that, despite the proposal that the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has not been informed, it has not been observed that it has also taken action. The system law, which is in force, is otherwise comprehensively governing the area of money laundering prevention, but as we see only within the country. However, when it is necessary to cut outside the borders, this law has proved insufficient, since otherwise the competent authorities should already act, as did the German intelligence service, which has ensured that the state has already received information on the bank’s committees in those countries. The government explains that it is not in favour of and support for all initiatives following greater effectiveness in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing in Slovenia, but the proposed arrangements in the form proposed do not support it, also because the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is preparing a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, which should be adopted this year. Otherwise, as we see, the government does not agree that data from various controversial transactions would be public, as it considers that any transaction in the tax haven does not yet constitute a crime of money laundering. The applicant bases the new 70th Article on the aim of public interest to fill the gap in the law with a view to preventing money laundering, in particular the business of tax havens, which serve primarily the purpose of unjustifiable wealth at the expense of unpaid taxes. However, I cannot help but mention the Commission's position to prevent corruption, which explains that the State of Slovenia is a prisoner of cartels, networks and private interests that move from local to national level and that there is more corruption in Slovenia than we hope to recognise. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the draft law, because we do not believe that we will be waiting for a law on the parliamentary benches prepared by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we understand the intention of the proposer, although it is not clear that by supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, he wants to prevent any prohibited transactions between Slovenia and so-called countries outside the highly taxed area or so-called tax havens. Although the proposaler writes in his explanation of the law that the aim is to reach the public with information on transactions between the Republic of Slovenia and those countries or areas, we assume that the objective is to prevent them because the public itself does not provide for prevention. And what does the proposer specifically suggest in the amendment of the law? Firstly, the so-called set of countries for which reporting is mandatory and secondly, that data on these transactions be published on the website of the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Here I must mention that if a number of countries really want to expand, it is necessary to amend the article, as reporting is now necessary only for countries on the special list. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, by simply expanding the number of countries for which reporting is mandatory, we have no major problems if the Office estimates that there are greater risks of money laundering. In terms of the right to protection of personal data, however, the matter is much more problematic than it seems at first sight. In Slovenia, we are obviously inclined to talk publicly about all political and private matters, even though they do not have anything to do with any crimes or violations of the law as such. Obviously, we've reached a point where we have to criminalize every kind of business. As liberals, it is difficult or impossible to agree to this logic that every financial transaction is punishable and that everyone can prove that it is not. What will all those who legally carry out their activities with the countries on the so-called lists do? What will be the next steps for each citizen to make public all his bank accounts and transactions, to publish online all trips of people to Cyprus, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, etc.? You know, it's still possible to transfer money into a suitcase or something. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that prevention, detection and prosecution authorities have at their disposal quite a number of instruments that enable the prosecution of illicit transactions, but the question is how and how often these instruments are used. Finally, we must ask ourselves whether we are willing to sacrifice part of our freedom, part of our privacy and personal data in order to ensure a higher level of prevention of money laundering and, consequently, enable more effective prosecution. Here a new question is being raised, even if we do so — whether we will actually achieve the purpose, that is, whether we will really prevent those who have dishonest intentions from doing this to them. With such a measure, we only let them know that they cannot use such a way anymore and will, of course, invent a new course. And with such a measure, all those entities that work honestly will be blacklisted and will do potential business and moral damage to them. That our concerns are not from the vine, it also proves the opinion of the information officer who says that without the added value of the data on the actual legal dispute the transaction of information on an unusual transaction for addressees is worthless. On the other hand, such publication may unduly affect the position of the economic operator carrying out the transaction. Finally, it concludes that, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, the publication of the data as proposed is neither appropriate nor necessary to achieve the above objectives of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and is therefore not proportionate. And this is where the key problem is that the applicant claims that the measure is proportionate, while the official body which assesses it does not consider it proportionate. As it is said, we do not have any reservations at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to ensure a higher rate of money laundering prevention, but Members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will vote on the law that is suitable for further consideration on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members should be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. He's not here. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister with co-workers and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we always support efforts aimed at reducing the potential for different manipulations, which ultimately aim at overcoming Slovenia's legal order and through various financial transactions, to achieve financial damage to both businesses and, consequently, to countries by avoiding tax control and paying only that and to themselves an unjustifiable profit. The purpose of the draft law on supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Happy Zerjav, that's how we understand. With the amendment to amend certain articles in the law, we understand that, even at a normative level, there is a lack of suspicious transactions, but if they are, they should be registered with the relevant national authorities, who will be able to determine professionally whether they are actually money laundering or whether they are just suspicious or just ordinary business transactions. The proposers wish to amend Article 38(1) of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and to add a new Article 70a, which aims to reach a communication to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering of all transactions between the parties of the financial institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and the recipients of these funds in countries where appropriate measures to prevent and detect money laundering are not in place or are not sufficiently implemented. Based on the new 70a. In order to prevent money laundering, the Article Office of the Republic of Slovenia will be obliged to publish information on the undertaking or independent entrepreneur, the amounts of its transaction and the addressee from the countries listed on the list above on its website. Given that the purpose of the proposed law on supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is to increase transparency of financial flows, or to inform the public of the transactions referred to above, in the view of the Group of Social Democrats, it is appropriate to examine the draft law proposed by the group of Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Further discussion and preparation of the second reading bill should take into account the Government's comments to a certain extent, and a common solution should therefore be found which would also provide a legal basis for preventing acts related to the so-called money laundering in countries that are in some way tax havens where tax burdens are, if any, lower than in us or in comparable countries, or could be avoided due to poor control of these obligations. It should also be possible to obtain the opinion of the information officer on this law regarding the provision of information to the public under this Act. However, we understand and support the Government's view that there is a need to achieve greater efficiency in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, also with possible additional obligations to communicate data to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, more effective control over the obligation to implement the law and closer cooperation between the supervisory and investigative authorities. We assess that the bill proposed by the Group of Members is going in this direction, just as I do. Of course, this is not enough and such a law is only the first of the additional measures necessary to prevent and detect money laundering. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand that the Government has prepared further solutions within the framework of the already envisaged amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism prepared by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but in the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party is also one of the possible provisional measures that can be taken much earlier by adopting this amendment of the law than the amendment of the law prepared by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering in Parliament. Nothing will be wrong if the Office finds a more comprehensive and complex solution to this problem in its amendments to the law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand this proposal for amendments to the law in particular as a clear and unequivocal message to all those who would like to gain a wealth advantage in an insufficient way to prepare and to prepare such legislation and legal solutions in the future, which will allow such an action to be disclosed and, consequently, properly sanctioned. In the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, the proposal for a law on supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is the first but not the last step in this direction, which is why we believe that this law must be supported at first reading and, together with the government and the proposing of this law, tackle the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the proposed law and make it effective. We believe that's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. The Honourable Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which has been tabled by the first-signed group of Members in the parliamentary procedure. Merry Christmas. The purpose of the novel is clear and simple. Information on transactions between the Republic of Slovenia and countries or areas designated as offshore areas should be made public. Information and certain information would be collected and published on its website by the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Money laundering is a criminal offence, as it attempts to erase the real source of money or property, which is usually illegal and thus seeks to achieve its legitimacy. In further steps, such money laundering or property may be included in normal, legitimate business flows or in criminal activities such as terrorist financing. Tax evasion is also some kind of folklore and it exists since there is a country in today's sense or perhaps even longer. People are hiding their more or less hard-earned money from the whole country. Some do so by means of tax havens or so-called "offshore" areas. These are countries or areas where taxes on income or profit are negligiblely small or null. In most cases, these are the smaller countries that offer — and live on — all kinds of pleasures to rich people who would otherwise be ruined by their lives by, in their view, high taxes. Some European countries, such as Denmark and Norway, for example Australia, have taken a noticeable step towards greater tax transparency and some more exotic countries do not even have that purpose. Also within the European Union, the picture shows a different rate of taxation; from the point of view of corporate income taxation and work, it is most paid to operate in Bulgaria, where the country collects only a tenth of the income. In the euro area, in the area of corporate income tax, Cyprus is the most advantageous company, which also collects 10% of its profits. In the area of income, this is Slovakia, where both the work and the income of companies are accounted for at a rate of 19 %. In recent times, we have seen quite a few cases of suspicion of illegal business, particularly of companies that have already gone into difficulty and have already been subject to enforcement or bankruptcy procedures. And interestingly, many of these companies operated through accounts in Liechtenstein. We can recall an infamous case in Hypo Alpe Adria that revealed irregularities and suspicious transactions that took place right across Liechtenstein. Measures to prevent such irregularities are governed by a system law, namely the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. It sets out the obligation for organisations to communicate to the Office all cash transactions worth more than EUR 30,000 in case of suspicion of money laundering as well as small amounts. An important solution to the bill is that organisations must inform the RS Office of any unusual transaction related to the area of tax havens, such as complex and unusual high amounts, amounts that do not comply with the normal business of the party and so on, and communicate to them the same information as those required for cash transactions exceeding EUR 30,000. The problem of organised and financial crime in connection with money laundering is becoming increasingly pressing both in the world and in us, as it seriously threatens the stability of the financial sector of the country and also undermines confidence in state institutions in general. Support for this bill will certainly be a step closer to a more transparent system of public finances, where the possibility of tax evasion will be less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Alojzija Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you. Respectable, the substance that is being dealt with this time by the applicants, the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, is of global importance. The problem is complex, non-transparent, organisational stifling, and in many cases the subject of manipulation may also be affected, and in particular socially unacceptable. It has a broad international dimension and there is a clear consensus that it is possible to stop and prevent it entirely only at global level. As is the case in the world, so is home. It is essential to identify in a timely manner, connect all responsible institutions and effectively jointly control. Applicants, we believe that they are justifiably concerned, as they say, by the fearsome cases of suspicious business operations in particular of companies already in insolvency proceedings, but that a number of transactions or suspicious transactions have been carried out through so-called tax havens and that it is in the public interest to know which Slovenian companies and individuals and to what extent they operate with entities established in tax havens. In the parliamentary group, we respect the concerns of the applicants, which are better justified than solutions, solutions seem to be simplified and somewhat inconsistent in terms of complexity. At the same time, the government argues, acknowledging the reality of the problem, that a new law is being drafted, which will contain more comprehensive and more deliberate solutions. They will also be adapted to the revised international standards, as well as to closer cooperation between supervisory institutions in Slovenia. The Zares Group accepts and understands both the views of the proponents and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and sees them as complementary and not as conflict. He feels that it is the power to support the completion of the marriage. Finally, information from the Ministry of Finance's response to colleagues of Orazm, who are finally forcing us into such a decision. 155 procedures relating to the crime of money laundering were introduced between 1995 and 2010. Of these 155, 88 were based on notifications or information from the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is less than 6 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's start with a little bit more detail about what tax havens are. Tax havens are characterised by low or zero tax rates, which means that companies established in these offshore centres do not pay taxes or pay substantially lower taxes than they would pay at home. Strict rules on banking and economic secrecy, free operation and lack of exchange of information or non-cooperation with foreign tax authorities are also significant. An offshore company must be in foreign ownership and must carry out economic activity exclusively abroad. Any activity on the market of the country where it is established shall be expressly prohibited. The types of offshore centers are big, everyone has their own specialty. Some centres are favourable for the registration of vessels, such as Panama and Marshall Islands, the Netherlands is a good location for the establishment of holding companies, Belize is a good location for trusts, Vanuatu has a very high level of anonymity, Nevis is one of the rare countries where it is possible to register companies with limited liability, Liechtenstein is interesting for the establishment of foundations and so on could be listed. Differences are most evident in taxation. There are no income taxes, property taxes and inheritance taxes on the Netherlands Antilles, and countries are financed through fixed annual amounts independent of the profits of these companies. For example, Seychelles is charged only $100 of fixed annual tax, with only one and a half percent profit tax applicable to a company used to avoid double taxation. These amounts are negligible compared to the profit tax in Slovenia and other less tax-competitive countries. These companies cannot be compensated for their unlawful conduct. I would like to stress that again. In the vast majority of cases, it is not even illegal conduct. But even if they act in full compliance with the rules, the question arises: Is tax avoidance a social responsibility? For the country has funded the construction, maintenance and implementation of public infrastructure from roads, kindergartens, schools to hospitals with taxes collected. In addition, large companies that avoid paying taxes in their home country are thus placed in a privileged position. When companies say that they are doing business, of course, in nicknames, fiscally optimal, they demonstrate a lack of social responsibility and a lack of commitment to the community, allowing them high profits while at the same time allowing them financial advantage over other companies. The fact is that offshore centres, due to favourable tax systems, attract foreign capital and thus take part of the fixed income of the country from which the capital originates. Thus, even Slovenian companies are not immune to the charms and temptations of these tax havens. Not long ago, on 16 February this year, the Business Diary reported how Banka Slovenije reported that, according to Banka Slovenije, I will quote: "According to data from Banka Slovenije, Slovenian residents paid 200 million to companies in Cyprus from 2008 to 2010 and 138 million euros to Liechtenstein. In 2009 and 2010, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering detected 385 suspicious transactions, which is significantly more relevant to the size of the Slovenian market than in the international environment." So in two, three years, in just two tax oasis, if we call it, 338 million euros have gone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, therefore, the proposed law first of all seeks to determine the public's data on transactions between the Republic of Slovenia and the countries or areas designated as offshore areas on the basis of the IMF and OECD reports. The proposal to supplement the law provides that organisations must inform the Office of each such transaction separately. Then what the Bureau will do with this information is a matter of its judgment and jurisdiction. At the very least, the Office shall, when receiving this information and information on such a transaction, publish on its website information on the entity that has made the transaction or for which the transaction has been made, the amount of the transaction and the entity to which the transaction is intended. As has been shown recently in Slovenia, the only active preventive and frightening moment is the fear of the public. Of course, such public media convictions can also result in injustice. But only to the pressure of the public and journalists will the law enforcement authorities, or the relevant state authorities, then respond and disperse. If Slovenia has not developed such journalism recently, I believe that Slovenians and Slovenians would live in the belief that our country is the best country in the world, because everything is in the best order. I'm afraid that's not the case. It is only true that the country is not prepared to do much in the pursuit of economic crime and other anomalies, at least that is what it looks like. What are the reasons? This question certainly goes beyond this debate and the subject matter. Contrary to the Government and some of its representatives, we assess that the proposed regulation does not constitute an intervention in a free economic initiative and the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, since the provision on the publication of public data concerns only legal persons and independent persons of entrepreneurs, individuals or individuals who carry out their own activities and therefore does not apply to ordinary natural persons. The proposed solution, in so far as it relates to companies, does not constitute an infringement of a free economic initiative, but constitutes, in accordance with established constitutional practice, a regulation of the manner in which this constitutional right is exercised under Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. This is the case with the Constitutional Court in its decision No. 199/02 of 21. Ten. 2004 From a constitutional point of view, there is no obstacle to the proposed provision as far as undertakings are concerned. The protection of personal data in legal persons is also not relevant. "The proposed solution shall also be without prejudice to the right to the protection of personal data in so far as it relates to independent entrepreneurs or individuals engaged in gainful activities. It follows from the established constitutional practice that data relating to the conduct of the activity of an individual or independent entrepreneur cannot be regarded as personal data because they relate not to a natural person as an individual but to a natural person as an entrepreneur." Thus, the Constitutional Court, in its decision No 84/03, of 17. 5. 2005. An intervention in constitutional rights is permissible if the conditions laid down in Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution are met. Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution requires a constitutionally permissible objective to restrict human rights. Moreover, an intervention must be in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. In the case of the proposed law, there is a public benefit that comes from the very purpose of this law. This is the prevention of money laundering and, in particular, the prevention of tax havens, which are intended to mostly avoid paying taxes. In addition, those data or such disclosures on economic operators have an impact on the decision-making of other economic operators on their business. If they do not have or are not accessible to them, they face uncertainty in their conduct. However, the availability of such data allows them to act with soundness of mind in their decision-making on business cooperation and taking into account the possible consequences. In assessing the proportionality of interference with the right to the protection of personal data in order to protect economic operators on the market, priority should be given to protecting the situation of a multitude of economic operators. In addition, taking into account the protection of the public benefit shown in the form of tax evasion prevention or tax avoidance, constitutional requirements are more than sufficient. We therefore propose that we all support the law together and possibly complete and improve it in the next procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Mr President, the distinguished Minister, with his fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues. The first-signed Mr Žerjav group wishes to supplement the law in force with a view to obtaining public information on transactions between Slovenia and countries or areas designated by international standards as tax havens. The RS Anti-Money Laundering Office would thus be given a new obligation, namely the publication of data on its websites on businesses, companies, independent entrepreneurs who have made financial transactions in a country that is listed as having a greater likelihood of money laundering or terrorist financing, the amount of the amount earmarked and the recipient of the remittance. Of course, such information should be provided to the Office by the debtors or organisations defined in the applicable law. The problem of economic and financial crime in connection with money laundering is very topical, and this appears to be growing. Although Slovenia has taken full and comprehensive approach to this issue, it is not only in line with international standards but even more stringent than its recommendations. In view of the surge of bankruptcys, in particular those in large and important Slovenian companies, and given the suspicion of business irregularities and the known facts about transactions made abroad, Member DeSUS agrees with the proposers that we take another step through the proposed supplement to fight money laundering and to avoid paying tax liabilities. While we are aware that increasing the transparency of financial flows in itself would not bring much to a more effective prevention of money laundering, there is also a need, and in particular other steps, for appropriate legislation that should not allow for a variety of forms of economic crime, more effective control and effectiveness of the competent authorities in identifying and prosecuting and sanctioning those involved in suspicious transactions and clearly unusual transactions. The largest amount of money in Slovenia is still operated through bank accounts and companies established for these purposes. However, it is certainly not wrong for the Slovenian public to know what financial transactions our companies are carrying out and to whom they are intended, and in particular to justify the interest of business operators, workers and creditors. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. However, if the Government is preparing better additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, everything is nice and good, and I wonder who else they must wait for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Following the general debate of Members and Members, the Flower of Zalokar Orazem wants to speak. No, no, no. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian, please. Get Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The fact is that the government has responded relatively positively to the proposal we made in the parliamentary group. The Minister noted that there is certainly an area of non-transparent business, including suspicious business. And that's the part that this law has been extending to date. And they are certainly the consciences or information we receive on the one hand when this is required by law, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering. The Commission has other information to prevent corruption, occasional shocking news in the media about suspicious transactions, must be the first alarm that the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and all other institutions of control and prosecution should turn on all warning lights and signals, as has been said in all institutions in the country that are set up to do so. In doing so, I am not referring to the resounding investigations in a series of TV cameras, which have been modern for several years or almost 10 years now, from which nothing is born or what is called "the mouse" but that in peace, all these bodies, all these suspicious procedures continue to be investigated in peace and that we will finally get some results. I agree with my colleague Radovan Žerjav, who said that – I have forgotten something – but who claimed that I am sorry, the thread has escaped me, but what the government has, what the government has proposed, or what the minister has said is that it is possible to improve this law, that otherwise the government opposes the law, but that it is possible to improve it, and I expect, of course, that the government will prepare an adequate supplement to this law, which will resolve all the dilemmas that the Minister has ordered in its implementation, and that we will eventually adopt a law that will resolve many of the dilemmas in these suspicious transactions. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Let's get Breda Rochean ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In principle, we support all laws and additions to the law aimed at preventing money laundering, and also in this proposal by the SLS, we see a good purpose, but we expect in the course of the discussion a concrete argument from the Government, what the proposal for such a law is intended to support, and what the Government will actually do to ensure that this problem, which exists and exists as a very pressing one in our country, is being addressed. I come from an environment long ago defined by the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption as an environment of intense corruption and also of money laundering. Unfortunately, this is still a great deal in spite of European legislation and European legislation and efforts. So, if not otherwise, I expect from this debate a greater and even more effective involvement of the Government in preventing these white foxes in our action against the laundering of dirty money and also against the possible financing of illegal activities in our country or in the international environment. By Wednesday or until the vote, I will draw up my opinion and also my position on this proposal, and I will also act and decide on the basis of all the arguments I will hear here. The fact is that if such proposals appear, there is a problem and it needs to be addressed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan has the word to prepare Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that I am grateful to my colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party's Group that they have introduced this law, in a simple manner, in the form of not much change or merely with additions, while at the same time with a very, very deep and intense intervention in an area which is one of the main hiding places or hiding places of illegal money and related also, for my understandings, highly dispersed, dispersed, criminal, corruption and other acts. In today's Journal, we have a concrete case of how, unfortunately, journalists have to encourage criminals, but I don't want to say that criminals are bad enough and that they don't work well enough, but the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors, not to talk about a whole range of others, the Tax Office, the Tax Administration, all of them get information about the whole type of things, the whole type of events, transactions and so on, but at the same time they have constantly tied hands, in one way or another. Whether they are always actually handcuffed or tied together because some people are not even able to dig the manure and manure that spills day after day across Slovenia, more and more. This particular case, as reported in today's Diary, was written about months ago, and the police found that, however, it was necessary to prove certain unusual transactions that are directly related to the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, not for money laundering, but because the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering should have the authority to determine where and why and why money goes from Slovenia to Panama, Liechtenstein, to where and vice versa. How is it that in Liechtenstein, in Panama, in Cyprus, in, I don't know where else, companies that are in fact purely straw companies with some mailbox, but they have names and surnames, not names of businesses, names and names of individual people behind this post office? I can say that I have, not a personal experience, because I have not been personally affected in one way or another, but I am hurt because I know that the company that is established in Liechtenstein owns a company in Slovenia that has incredibly large investments and has continuously blocked accounts in the last few months. Who owned that company in Liechtenstein, which founded this company in Slovenia, which made very large investments or made very large investments, and then intertwined it, got mixed up in a million ways, there must be a natural person in the back. I do not mean to say that there is something hidden in the back, but it is a natural person with a specific property and with precise objectives this company has been established in Slovenia. Why are the owners in Liechtenstein, because it can't be established, you can't get information in Liechtenstein about who financed the establishment of this company? So, I think it's high time that one step after another, as colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party do, we finally come to the point that our authorities are going to be in charge of persecution, etc., so that they can not get defence evidence in court, that the evidence is illegal, because they were listening to someone who was cheating, who was stealing confidential information, and because it was illegal, that's why they can't be convicted. I think it's about time we made a little more order in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Get Miran Györek ready, Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is indeed time for us to make a little more order in this country and, in fact, I am pleased to see that some coalition Members have joined these aspirations of opposition Members today. It appears so many times at least at this stage that the government has remained quite lonely when it does not support such a law. It seems to me that the government in this unlikely situation should be pleased with any assistance, an approach that would allow Slovenia to display itself as a normal country. Part of normality is to prevent these money laundering matters. So far, no political will. We know that only in the previous term have some human resources replacements been made, which we have only just begun to fight with the help of control institutions. Until then, control institutions have literally supported illegal acts. We know the fate of journalist Mir Petk who wrote about transactions and money laundering. Today, those who actually accounted for it are rewarded. I hear someone in closed societies brags about ordering an attack on Mira Petk. Of course, all the evidence was compromised. In any event, the police did not approach it in time and then further compromised the prosecution's evidence and so on. In such a situation, of course, it would be necessary for a social step to be taken along a path that will be money laundering, as one of the worst crimes in which fraud, in fact, has to be reduced to some minor extent. We know we're never going to be 100% successful. And look at the reason why you're not in the government right now. We know when Liechtenstein, Cyprus, is mentioned that in the recent past, in the inquiry committee, people who have been proven to be operating through Cyprus, making financial transactions, laundering money, of course, are associated with the extremely prominent people of this coalition, these authorities. I don't know, among other things, I heard that the court even ordered one such person to listen, but that within two hours there was an intervention and that the work had to be suspended and the order had been lifted. The investigative commissions have yet to verify that this is true. But probably without fire there's no smoke, it's probably something that still some people are so strong that, in fact, laws don't apply to them, absolutely not. And that is why, Mr Minister, I think it is an opportunity to change your mind that you are actively involved in improving the legal proposal. You cannot believe that all Members of Parliament are kicking in the dark, that we do not want any positive movement. And I am sure that additional publishing and publishing on the website are some such measures and additional reporting that would limit the possibility of money laundering on some segment. For this title of the law says, preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism. There is classical terrorism in mind, but this money laundering is terrorism against the country, against our country, and it has already been subdued practically purely, drowning and we do not have time to delay measures. In this area it is necessary to adopt such legislation and regulations that will allow for efficiency and cannot really be compromised by all evidence. They cannot resist all the evidence being successful lawyers of these people, who, of course, are well paid and it is legitimate to fight for their clients, but today, on the basis of these bad laws that we now have, lawyers save each of these. However, the victims are Miro Friday and those who fought money laundering, and we must stop this practice. And here we need government cooperation. We absolutely need government cooperation and, Minister, the pressure on the government will increase every day, as many Members are aware that they cannot support opposition to measures that are good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franci Kek won't discuss it. Guido Kres has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When I was in economics and we talked about offshore zones 12 years ago, I said it couldn't lead to a good conclusion. Because the end of the country that decided to do so attracted, of course, capital into its environment, but I could not imagine that this could take very long. And in the end, we are in this situation today, when Germany has also been very opposed to this and has been successful. I know that Slovenians, the Slovenian state, are not strong enough to pressure these tax havens as they could have pushed stronger countries, but we are members of the OECD. Top of the G-20 is 3. 4. 2009 has taken a number of measures and at the same time leaders have committed themselves to extending control and regulation to all systemically important financial institutions, instruments and markets, including systemicly important hedge funds, which have so far been much less regulated. Regulatory supervision will also extend to credit rating agencies that will have to respect international codes of good practice, especially when it comes to avoiding conflicts of interest. They also agreed that non-participating tax havens would be subject to strict sanctions in the future, etc. It is happening, and I think that this step of ours is taking us in the right direction as well, and I am sure that with the government we will come to this end together. Look, this money, this transaction: I, after all, as an entrepreneur, wouldn't mind very much if this money was earned outside our premises. This money that is leaking into the tax haven today is due in our area. That's why these companies were also set up, transactions are made, and money is going away, and this also makes more profits for these companies or even hides unfair money. I remember well from my youth when Swedish tennis player Björn Borg moved his permanent residence to Monaco. And what happened? They followed him for years, and when he came back, he paid all his taxes. That is why I think this is the beginning, this proposal of the law, that we establish such order in Slovenia, or, if you want, also fear, because, however, those who intend to live with our country have earned this money with us, our taxpayers have earned money, our companies who are hard to earn money outside, have no businesses abroad, they pay taxes on us, it's all going around and it's going away in such an easy way. I think we need to end this, and we're on our way. And that the matter is developing in the right direction and I must say that I am grateful to the Members, and I am sure that we will also come with the government to make the law that we all certainly want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. He's not here. Aloysius Potočnik. He's not here. Tadj Slapnik. He's not here. Willie Trophynic. It's not. Does he want a word with the government? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Of course, I would thank all Members for the constructive debate, but I would add a few more sentences to all this. However, I do not think that such a publication would be without value, as I said in my performance. Unfortunately, the public is playing a part in our lives. In many cases, in a large number of cases, the public has played their part, and I am sure that they would, too, in this case. I am not saying that if we accept this bill that we will solve all the problems related to preventing money laundering, this can certainly be a step in the right direction. I will be happy if the government prepares anything more systematic in the coming weeks, months or whatever, but the fact is that we have to get serious about this problem. As I said, more than 300 million in two, three years has gone by only to Cyprus and Liechtenstein and the country, according to my assessment, should be particularly concerned with such a public financial situation as it is today. I would like to give an illustration of some of the examples that you all know for sure, such as the MMC on November 7th about the money outflow from Vegrad. There is increasing evidence that millions of people have left Vegrad to bank accounts in Liechtenstein. How was the business? Very interesting. Thus, the company in the Hypo Group, owned by the Land of Bežigrad, where college homes were supposed to grow, sold EUR 6 million first to the company in Panama and then bought the same share of Vegrad for EUR 22 million. Vegrad AM, who built the Celovské dvory, sold it to another company in Liechtenstein, then sold it back to another company in the Hypo Group, which eventually sold it to Vegrad. And the price difference is a good 9 million euros. You're gonna lose your mind about this. We were all faced with the case around Ljubljana's lands, the company Disonco in Cyprus, whose owner is Mr Jure Jankovic. The finances were written about another case, one of the richest Slovenians, along with their friend, are co-owners of one Panamanian society. This Panamanian company is supposed to own a Cypriot company, which is the tenth largest owner of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Hiding around the world, around and back in Slovenia to become the property of the New Ljubljana Bank. I think this country should be interested, given that it is one of the most important banking institutions. The comments of some economists are very interesting. One that is one of the more successful today, and many times I see it on TV, talking about morality, ethics and learning politics and everything we should do. He transferred his assets to the Netherlands, and this is justified by the following phrases: "We have decided this step because Dutch holding law is nicer than Slovenian law. Dutch legislation does not know about the transfer of capital gains. For example, if a holding company sells one company, it has to pay a capital profit tax in Slovenia and not in the Netherlands." Nice, great. This gentleman shares our moral and ethical sciences on television and what this country should do in order to have better public financial stability in order to make the revenues to the state's treasury better and so on and so on. I would like, as in recent times in the Slovenian People's Party, to mitigate or perhaps even eliminate such small changes in the law through a system of small steps of an anomaly that has surfaced through this financial and economic crisis. We have actively participated in public procurement laws. We have introduced the Company Act in order to prevent the chain establishment of companies, as some have. Today we are talking about the flow of money into tax havens, and we are going to propose some similar proposals to the National Assembly because we think that this is the only way to change the situation for the better. I will be happy if we are able to improve this law in the coming weeks, so that its impact will be as good or as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 22 June 2011 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the health service law, within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of three Members and Members with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I should give the floor to Ljubo Germić, President of the Health Committee for the supplementary explanation of the bill, but I do not see it in the Chamber, so for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body, I give the floor to the representative of the motion for the proposed law, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The question of the Chambers, not just the medical room that is being discussed today, is certainly an area that needs to be discussed. The fact is that the assembly arrangements in Slovenia are not uniform, which is also reflected in a number of shortcomings in this area. Last but not least, it is also a matter of dissatisfaction with members who are forced by the way of compulsory membership into a certain organisation. Therefore, as proponents, it seems reasonable that the National Assembly, which regulates this area of law and so on, commands compulsory membership, should talk about this. And it was with this bill that we wanted to launch this debate on the regulation of the chamber system in Slovenia, which would also like to change the issue of compulsory or optional membership in the chambers as representative institutions. The solutions in the bill only touch on optional membership and the law also has certain shortcomings in the legislative and legal services, which we are aware of as proposing and would like to amend and supplement in the next stages of the law. I am convinced that it is specifically the Medical Chamber which or its status should be discussed in more detail. We are aware that this agreement was also within the framework of coalition partners, that we need to talk about the Chambers and resolve the issue of mandatory or optional membership status. I would like to point out that, as a first-signatory to amend the law in this area, I was led by two. One thing is that due to certain problems, shortcomings, including the affairs that we have witnessed in the last period, especially in the Medical Chamber, it makes no sense to place things on your head in a systemic sense. I am aware of this, but I believe that there have been enough loud and clear signals that say that within the chamber itself, that is, within the profession, if I say so, we can see the great inability of self-reflexion, self-regulatory and also of our own reflections that move away from its basic mission. Compulsory membership in the Chamber, which is also one of the options in other developed countries, also provides a basis for the State to hand over to such an expert association some of the public powers that should otherwise be exercised by the State or the competent ministry itself. The fact is that today we are in a situation where we can express doubts as to whether such a chamber as it is at this time, and with compulsory membership, we are able to exercise public powers in an corrective manner, particularly in the area of control. I am convinced that we have witnessed many embarrassments, problems, an affair where the Chamber has not reacted in a way that could cast doubt on both policies and professions in its own kind. At this point, there is a great responsibility on the part of the government or the minister, as it has been shown that the way of regulatory control, as regulated in Slovenia, is not effective and is not such as to give the public, patients, patients, enough confidence. My personal assessment is, as I have also expressed on the parent's working body, that the control exercised by the direct ministry or within the Government by the independent body would have a higher degree of independence and autonomy than it currently has within its own state association. And of course, it would be purely for professional supervision, but not for supervision, which would be estranged from the profession, even more, within such a body would certainly be easier to breathe and make more independent decisions by the profession. Therefore, I think it would be good for us to consider what arrangements we will have in the field of assemblies, Europe has this different arrangement, the good and bad sides of each other appear, but above all, it is a voice. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] which speaks of the fact that there is something wrong with the work of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia at this time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Eržen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem, and has found that the proposed law cannot be supported. The proposer shall propose the abolition of compulsory membership in the Medical Chamber by means of a proposal submitted. There is also provision for a way out of the Chamber and for a different level of membership to which the Minister of Health will no longer give his consent. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposed arrangement would bring about the status changes of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which is now a Public Law Chamber. By abolishing compulsory membership, it would become a private institution and it would no longer be possible to ensure the functioning of the Medical Chamber in the public interest, but would only act in the interests of members who would remain united in the Chamber. This would further significantly hamper the performance of the tasks now carried out under the Medical Service Act of the Chamber in the framework of its public mandate: the award, extension and withdrawal of licences, the planning, monitoring and supervision of traineeships, specialisations and other forms of postgraduate professional training of its members, the establishment of conditions for the appointment of mentors and the appointment of co-ordinators, the exercise of professional supervision, the provision of advice and the management of the register of doctors and dental doctors. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that, together with the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Health of Slovenia, other areas should also be regulated, on the basis of public authority, by the Chambers. Otherwise, there would be serious disruptions to the exercise of public powers. The abolition of compulsory membership should fully regulate the field of regulation of the medical profession, which is not regulated by the proposed law. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that a meaningful question of the Chambers, their establishment, organisation, termination of operations and the exercise of public powers would be to regulate comprehensively and uniformly for all regulated professions in health care. In view of all the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Medical Service Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem, and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Havela beautiful. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats' Group, we oppose the proposed bill, while we are pleased that the Zares Group, with its first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem, has highlighted voluntary membership in the Medical Chamber, and we sincerely hope that this will encourage the Ministry of Health and the whole government to reflect on integrated solutions to the organisation of the assembly system. The reason for the opposition is not in the voluntary membership of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, but in the proposal as such. We are convinced that the law on the issue of membership is only on a flat-rate basis and leaves many too open other things, which have been highlighted both in the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that this could be suitable material for further consideration. This was, last but not least, a summary of the debate on the Committee itself. The key problems are the conduct of activities with public authority and the financing of this activity, the breakdown of the chamber in several regional chambers and thus the loss of any representative status, and thus the loss of power of representation against the Government, the issue of sharing the property of the chamber among the newly established chambers and, of course, many other negative consequences. In general, it is considered in the professional public that the Chamber does not do its work as it should, but this is not all the matter of the Chamber itself, but of its leadership, which the members still support, despite all the mistakes and general dissatisfaction raised by the bill-makers. In doing so, appeals may be made directly to members who, through a change of leadership, can change the business practice in the Chamber and eliminate the dissatisfaction of all stakeholders, including members of the Chamber, users of its services and the Ministry of Health. As I have already said, for all these reasons, we do not support the proposal for a law for further consideration in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	All hailing, distinguished Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services, which was tabled in the Parliamentary Procedure of the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, and is intended to amend the current mandatory membership in the Medical Chamber of Slovenia into voluntary, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we reject and join the opinion of the Ministry of Health, the opinion of the State Council, the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, as well as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which affected the opinion of the Committee on Health, to conclude that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services is not suitable for further consideration. The Slovenian Medical Chamber is an independent professional organisation of doctors, doctors, dentists and dentists who carry out their profession in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Chamber shall protect and represent the professional, social and economic interests of members, take care of the professional competence and ethical conduct of doctors, the reputation and honour of the medical profession, ensure the fulfilment of medical duties, exercise of the rights of doctors and the professional and safe treatment of patients. The Medical Chamber of Slovenia works for the benefit of citizens who deserve a safe health system and doctors who want to carry out their medical mission professionally, responsibly and smoothly. The Medical Chamber is therefore acting in the public interest and has delegated or delegated to it the following powers: the granting, extension and withdrawal of licences, the planning, monitoring and supervision of traineeships, specialisations and other forms of postgraduate professional training, the exercise of professional supervision by consulting and the management of the register of doctors and dentists. This activity is also financed by a quarter of the membership fee, not from Ministry grants. A stable funding is needed for the normal functioning of the Chambers, so is a regular flow of money, and this is enabled by compulsory membership. The Ministry of Health notes that the abolition of compulsory membership would mean that the Chamber would no longer act in the public interest, but in the interest of its members, and that the Ministry of New Services should take care of public powers, it is desirable to consider an agency that oversees the work of doctors. In practice, this would mean new staff and new resources. Doctors already lack financial resources as well. It would be appropriate for employed doctors not to have to pay membership fees, so that membership would not be compulsory. We'd pay for the employees to be set up. Well, and according to the data on day 31. 11. In 2010, the Medical Chamber brought together 8,000 593 members and members. Since mandatory membership is a stable source of funding, the expected revenue could be calculated in the investment of Domus Medic, home of all doctors. For decades, Slovenian doctors hoped that they could manage their profession independently and achieved this with Slovenia's independence. For a long time, medical organizations planned to unite under the same roof and to demonstrate their ability to coordinate and connect. As early as 1968, Professor Oton Bajc in the Medical Divinator published the answer to the question about the role and importance of the Medical Chamber, describing its tasks and role in society prior to World War II, when the building was used by the fund to purchase its own buildings, so a representative building on Dalmatia Street was purchased and moved there. The current new Domus Medica was built in a good year only with membership funds, says through membership funds, short-term credit and members' donations. In particular, they point out that neither the euro from the State budget nor the insurance or pharmaceutical industry has been seized for construction. It is certain that in 20 years a number of things have come up that will need to be changed, supplemented or improved in the Chamber. Therefore, it is necessary to listen closely to members, users of services and organisers so as not to destroy what works well with a rapid change. Some countries want the kind of arrangement that we have, so that we can set an example for others, so it is right that membership is compulsory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please. He won't. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Medical Chamber has an important task, namely to carry out professional supervision and counselling in health care. Health is a universal and personal value and the right to health is one of the fundamental human rights. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure quality and affordable health care, and it is incumbent on it to provide a system that ensures this. This includes a duly organised Medical Chamber, which exercises public powers. It is therefore right to maintain mandatory membership in the Chamber, since it will only be effective enough to be able to monitor and advise their work as a representative chamber in addition to representing the interests of doctors. Lately, due to the poor performance of the Chamber in the event of the death of patients and the fact that the House Director has a bit of a reputation at stake. Therefore, there is much controversy in the public as to compulsory membership and payment of membership. Applicants state that 53.7% of doctors interviewed in the telephone survey should be in favour of voluntary membership in the Medical Chamber. This survey cannot be sufficient reason to abolish compulsory membership in the Chamber. The State must ensure that the Chamber properly exercises its public powers and that members, doctors, are agreed within the organisation instead of a public debate. With proper organisation of work and fairer representation in the offices of the Chambers, they should improve its functioning and replace its leadership if they feel that they are not working well. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is possible to replace leadership and improve the functioning of the Chamber without needlessly disrupting the system regime. By reducing its membership, the Chamber would lose its representative role and thus its power and ability to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. The abolition of compulsory membership would mean that the Chamber would no longer act in the public interest but in the interest of some of its members, which could have an impact on the poorer supervisory function. The abolition of compulsory membership would therefore open up a large number of outstanding questions that the proposed law does not provide and even less offers answers to them, so the proposed law cannot be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State. I'm glad that Mr Secretary of State is the Prime Minister, a doctor, if I'm going to be panicked by the phobia in front of a large closed empty space so that he can help me. A little joke. The proposal tabled and rejected by the Health Committee on amendments and updates to the Medical Services Act on the issue of the Medical Chamber points to the fact that it is imperative to analyse, address and update, if I so express myself in computer language, to submit the entire assembly system, because similar requests and proposals also in other economic and professional activities such as crafts, agriculture and forestry confirm that the current regulation no longer meets the requirements of time. As such, the Chambers differ in their specific nature and are the same in all the amendments, and questions of voluntary or compulsory membership in a particular interest association are raised. It is also specific within the Chambers existing issues. There have been many frictions and contradictions within membership, due to a lack of leadership, not to say, in some cases, even the abuse of powers and the exercise of their own material and financial interests by a narrow circle of people, and also by all of us known many affairs, which all justified the dissatisfaction of membership and of the All-Slovenian public. In this respect, the proposal is justified and requires urgent action. Otherwise, inefficiency, non-democraticism and lack of transparency in managing resources and governance will only increase to such a level that it becomes a questionable mission of such a merger and, of course, the associated public interest and representation of the interests of membership. In the Slovenian National Party, we tend to apply the principle of voluntary membership in all chambers or in the entire assembly system, which should certainly be comprehensively and systematically redesigned on the basis of a preliminary thorough analysis and study, including taking into account comparable arrangements in other countries of the European Union and developing the most appropriate system to satisfy both public interest and the interest of membership in individual chambers. Here, solutions and organisation must be found so that there will be no hypothesis or justification of the necessity of compulsory membership, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of State has argued, so that the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Health of Slovenia would mean that it would no longer work in the public interest, but in the interests of its members for which it was established. To be more precise and frank, we do not understand such a dictatorship or justification in the Slovenian National Party for the necessity of compulsory membership, nor do we accept such an explanation. Those who engage in linguistics are immediately observed that such syntax is completely inadequate and, in the substantive sense, exclusive. Such a eloquence means that the public interest and interest of members are excluded and that the interest of members over public interest can only be due to optional membership. This will certainly not be entirely true, as it is necessary to ensure such an arrangement of a chamber or assembly system, which will not be exclusive, but which will serve equally effectively in order to ensure that the interests of the public, as well as the interests of the members, are maintained, not only in the Medical Chamber, including in the case of other chambers. This should certainly be the basic objective in principle and, therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we propose that the competent ministry draw up a proposal for the organisation of assembly in the sense that voluntary membership can be introduced and that the functioning of the Chambers in the public interest can be adequately ensured. Unfortunately, we fear that such an assignment for this government will be a mission impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Wednesday, 22 June 2011, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday, 21 June 2011, at 12 noon. I would like to point out that at 12 noon, because this is the 23rd point, this is a proposal for a decision concerning the notification of the Court of Auditors. No amendments have been tabled and it is therefore only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the views of the groups are presented. Thank you very much. I'll see you Tuesday at 12:00.
